We construct unsatisfiable k-CNF formulas where every clause has k distinct
literals and every variable appears in at most (2/e + o(1))2^{k}/k clauses. The
Lopsided Local Lemma, applied with assignment of random values according to
counterintuitive probabilities, shows that our result is asymptotically best
possible. The determination of this extremal function is particularly important
as it represents the value where the k-SAT problem exhibits its complexity
hardness jump: from having every instance being a YES-instance it becomes
NP-hard just by allowing each variable to occur in one more clause. The
asymptotics of other related extremal functions are also determined. Let l(k)
denote the maximum number, such that every k-CNF formula with each clause
containing k distinct literals and each clause having a common variable with at
most l(k) other clauses, is satisfiable. We establish that the lower bound on
l(k) obtained from the Local Lemma is asymptotically optimal, i.e., l(k) = (1/e
+ o(1))2^{k}. The construction of our unsatisfiable CNF-formulas is based on
the binary tree approach of [16] and thus the constructed formulas are in the
class MU(1)of minimal unsatisfiable formulas having one more clauses than
variables. To obtain the asymptotically optimal binary trees we consider a
continuous approximation of the problem, set up a differential equation and
estimate its solution. The trees are then obtained through a discretization of
this solution. The binary trees constructed also give asymptotically precise
answers for seemingly unrelated problems like the European Tenure Game
introduced by Doerr [9] and the search problem with bounded number of
consecutive lies, considered in a problem of the 2012 IMO contest. As yet
another consequence we slightly improve two bounds related to the Neighborhood
Conjecture of Beck.