A crucial ingredient for numerically solving the 3D radiative transfer
problem is the choice of the grid that discretizes the transfer medium. Many
modern radiative transfer codes, whether using Monte Carlo or ray tracing
techniques, are equipped with hierarchical octree-based grids to accommodate a
wide dynamic range in densities. We critically investigate two different
aspects of octree grids in the framework of Monte Carlo dust radiative
transfer. Inspired by their common use in computer graphics applications, we
test hierarchical k-d tree grids as an alternative for octree grids. On the
other hand, we investigate which node subdivision-stopping criteria are optimal
for constructing of hierarchical grids. We implemented a k-d tree grid in the
3D radiative transfer code SKIRT and compared it with the previously
implemented octree grid. We also considered three different node
subdivision-stopping criteria (based on mass, optical depth, and density
gradient thresholds). Based on a small suite of test models, we compared the
efficiency and accuracy of the different grids, according to various quality
metrics. For a given set of requirements, the k-d tree grids only require half
the number of cells of the corresponding octree. Moreover, for the same number
of grid cells, the k-d tree is characterized by higher discretization accuracy.
Concerning the subdivision stopping criteria, we find that an optical depth
criterion is not a useful alternative to the more standard mass threshold,
since the resulting grids show a poor accuracy. Both criteria can be combined;
however, in the optimal combination, for which we provide a simple approximate
recipe, this can lead to a 20% reduction in the number of cells needed to reach
a certain grid quality. An additional density gradient threshold criterion can
be added that solves the problem of poorly resolving sharp edges and...
(abridged).