Mounting evidence suggests that natural populations can harbor extensive
fitness diversity with numerous genomic loci under selection. It is also known
that genealogical trees for populations under selection are quantifiably
different from those expected under neutral evolution and described
statistically by Kingman's coalescent. While differences in the statistical
structure of genealogies have long been used as a test for the presence of
selection, the full extent of the information that they contain has not been
exploited. Here we shall demonstrate that the shape of the reconstructed
genealogical tree for a moderately large number of random genomic samples taken
from a fitness diverse, but otherwise unstructured asexual population can be
used to predict the relative fitness of individuals within the sample. To
achieve this we define a heuristic algorithm, which we test in silico using
simulations of a Wright-Fisher model for a realistic range of mutation rates
and selection strength. Our inferred fitness ranking is based on a linear
discriminator which identifies rapidly coalescing lineages in the reconstructed
tree. Inferred fitness ranking correlates strongly with actual fitness, with a
genome in the top 10% ranked being in the top 20% fittest with false discovery
rate of 0.1-0.3 depending on the mutation/selection parameters. The ranking
also enables to predict the genotypes that future populations inherit from the
present one. While the inference accuracy increases monotonically with sample
size, samples of 200 nearly saturate the performance. We propose that our
approach can be used for inferring relative fitness of genomes obtained in
single-cell sequencing of tumors and in monitoring viral outbreaks.