Divergence dates estimates are central to understand evolutionary processes
and depend, in the case of molecular phylogenies, on tests for the molecular
clock. Testing for global and local clocks generally compare a
clock-constrained tree versus a non-clock tree (e.g. the likelihood ratio
test). These tests verify the evolutionary rate homogeneity among taxa and
usually employ the chi-square test for rejection/acceptance of the "clock-like"
phylogeny. The paradox is that the molecular clock hypothesis, as proposed, is
a Poisson process, and therefore, non-homogeneous. Here we propose a method for
testing the molecular clock in phylogenies that is built upon the assumption of
Poisson stochastic process that accommodates rate heterogeneity and is based on
ensembles of trees inferred by the Bayesian method. The observed distribution
of branch lengths (number of substitutions) is obtained from the ensemble of
post burn-in Bayesian search. The parameter $\lambda$ of the expected Poisson
distribution is given by the average branch length of this ensemble. The
goodness-of-fit test is performed using a modified Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for
Poisson distributions. The method here introduced uses a large number of
statistically equivalent phylogenies to obtain the observed distribution. This
circumvents problems of small sample size (lack of power and lack of
information), because the power of the test is asymptotic to unity. Also, the
observed distribution obtained is very robust in the sense that for a
sufficient number of trees (700) the empirical distribution stabilizes.
Therefore, the estimated parameter $\lambda$, used to define the expected
distribution, is essentially independent of sample size.