Let ${\cal T}=(T,w)$ be a weighted finite tree with leaves $1,..., n$. For
any $I :=\{i_1,..., i_k \} \subset \{1,...,n\}$,let $D_I ({\cal T})$ be the
weight of the minimal subtree of $T$ connecting $i_1,..., i_k$; the $D_{I}
({\cal T})$ are called $k$-weights of ${\cal T}$. Given a family of real
numbers parametrized by the $k$-subsets of $\{1,..., n\}$, $\{D_I\}_{I \in
{\{1,...,n\} \choose k}}$, we say that a weighted tree ${\cal T}=(T,w)$ with
leaves $1,..., n$ realizes the family if $D_I({\cal T})=D_I$ for any $ I $. In
\cite{P-S} Pachter and Speyer proved that, if $3 \leq k \leq (n+1)/2$ and
$\{D_I\}_{I \in {\{1,...,n\} \choose k}}$ is a family of positive real numbers,
then there exists at most one positive-weighted essential tree ${\cal T}$ with
leaves $1,...,n$ that realizes the family ("essential" means that there are no
vertices of degree $2$). We say that a tree $P$ with leaves $1,.., n$ is an
$r$-pseudostar if any edge of $P$ divides $\{1,...,n\}$ into two sets such that
at least one of them has cardinality $ \leq r$. Here we show that, if $3 \leq k
\leq n-1$ and $\{D_I\}_{I \in {\{1,...,n\} \choose k}}$ is a family of real
numbers realized by some weighted tree, then there is exactly one weighted
essential $(n-k)$-pseudostar ${\cal P}=(P,w)$, with leaves $1,...,n$ and
without internal edges of weight $0$, that realizes the family; moreover we
describe how any other weighted tree realizing the family can be obtained from
${\cal P}$. We point out that the unicity statement in the case of
positive-weighted trees has been already proved (even if not stated), in fact
it follows from Theorem 6 in \cite{L-Y-P}. Furthermore, we give a
characterization of the families of real numbers that are realized by some
weighted tree. Finally we examine the range of the total weight of the weighted
trees realizing a fixed family.