Given a capacitated communication network N and a function f that needs to be
computed on N, we study the problem of generating a computation and
communication schedule in N to maximize the rate of computation of f. Shah et.
al.[IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in Communication, 2013] studied this problem
when the computation schema G for f is a tree graph. We define the notion of a
schedule when G is a general DAG and show that finding an optimal schedule is
equivalent to finding the solution of a packing linear program. We prove that
approximating the maximum rate is MAX SNP-hard by looking at a restricted class
of schedules and the equivalent packing LP. For this packing LP we prove that
solving the separation oracle of its dual is equivalent to solving the LP. The
separation oracle of the dual reduces to the problem of finding minimum cost
embedding given N,G which we prove to be MAX SNP-hard even when G has bounded
degree and bounded edge weights. A version of minimum cost embedding problem
has been studied in literature and we relate our cost model with the one
present in literature. We present a quadratic integer program for the minimum
cost embedding problem and its linear programming relaxation based on
earthmover metric. Applying the randomized rounding techniques to the optimal
solution of this LP we give approximate algorithms for some special class of
graphs. We present constant factor approximation algorithms for maximum rate
when G is a bounded width layered graph and when it is a planar graph with
bounded out-degree. We also present O(D log n)-approximation algorithm for
arbitrary DAG G where D is the maximum out-degree of a vertex in G and n is the
number of vertices in N. We also prove that if a DAG has a spanning tree in
which every edge is a part of O(F) fundamental cycles then there is a
O(FD)-approximation algorithm.