Efficient and informative comparison of trees is a common essential interest
of both computational biology and pattern classification. In this paper, we
introduce a novel dissimilarity measure on non-degenerate hierarchies (rooted
binary trees), called the NNI navigation distance, that counts the steps along
the trajectory of a discrete dynamical system defined over the Nearest Neighbor
Interchange(NNI) graph of binary hierarchies. The NNI navigation distance has a
unique unifying nature of combining both edge comparison methods and edit
operations for comparison of trees and is an efficient approximation to the
(NP-hard) NNI distance. It is given by a closed form expression which simply
generalizes to nondegenerate hierarchies as well. A relaxation on the closed
form of the NNI navigation distance results a simpler dissimilarity measure on
all trees, named the crossing dissimilarity, counts pairwise cluster
incompatibilities of trees. Both of our dissimilarity measures on nondegenerate
hierarchies are positive definite (vanishes only between identical trees) and
symmetric but are not a true metric because they do not satisfy the triangle
inequality. Although they are not true metrics, they are both linearly bounded
below by the widely used Robinson-Foulds metric and above by a new tree metric,
called the cluster-cardinality distance --- the pullback metric of a matrix
norm along an embedding of hierarchies into the space of matrices. All of these
proposed tree measures can be efficiently computed in time O(n^2) in the number
of leaves, n.