Least squares trees, multi-dimensional scaling and Neighbor Nets are all
different and popular ways of visualizing multi-dimensional data. The method of
flexi-Weighted Least Squares (fWLS) is a powerful method of fitting
phylogenetic trees, when the exact form of errors is unknown. Here, both
polynomial and exponential weights are used to model errors. The exact same
models are implemented for multi-dimensional scaling to yield flexi-Weighted
MDS, including as special cases methods such as the Sammon Stress function.
Here we apply all these methods to population genetic data looking at the
relationships of "Abrahams Children" encompassing Arabs and now widely
dispersed populations of Jews, in relation to an African outgroup and a variety
of European populations. Trees, MDS and Neighbor Nets of this data are compared
within a common likelihood framework and the strengths and weaknesses of each
method are explored. Because the errors in this type of data can be complex,
for example, due to unexpected genetic transfer, we use a residual resampling
method to assess the robustness of trees and the Neighbor Net. Despite the
Neighbor Net fitting best by all criteria except BIC, its structure is ill
defined following residual resampling. In contrast, fWLS trees are favored by
BIC and retain considerable strong internal structure following residual
resampling. This structure clearly separates various European and Middle
Eastern populations, yet it is clear all of the models have errors much larger
than expected by sampling variance alone.