The dual-tree complex wavelet transform (DT-CWT) is known to exhibit better
shift-invariance than the conventional discrete wavelet transform. We propose
an amplitude-phase representation of the DT-CWT which, among other things,
offers a direct explanation for the improvement in the shift-invariance. The
representation is based on the shifting action of the group of fractional
Hilbert transform (fHT) operators, which extends the notion of arbitrary
phase-shifts from sinusoids to finite-energy signals (wavelets in particular).
In particular, we characterize the shiftability of the DT-CWT in terms of the
shifting property of the fHTs. At the heart of the representation are certain
fundamental invariances of the fHT group, namely that of translation, dilation,
and norm, which play a decisive role in establishing the key properties of the
transform. It turns out that these fundamental invariances are exclusive to
this group.
  Next, by introducing a generalization of the Bedrosian theorem for the fHT
operator, we derive an explicitly understanding of the shifting action of the
fHT for the particular family of wavelets obtained through the modulation of
lowpass functions (e.g., the Shannon and Gabor wavelet). This, in effect, links
the corresponding dual-tree transform with the framework of windowed-Fourier
analysis. Finally, we extend these ideas to the multi-dimensional setting by
introducing a directional extension of the fHT, the fractional directional
Hilbert transform. In particular, we derive a signal representation involving
the superposition of direction-selective wavelets with appropriate
phase-shifts, which helps explain the improved shift-invariance of the
transform along certain preferential directions.