Using the SMA and VLA, we have imaged the massive protocluster NGC6334I(N) at
high angular resolution (0.5"~650AU) from 6cm to 0.87mm, detecting 18 new
compact continuum sources. Three of the new sources are coincident with
previously-identified water masers. Together with the previously-known sources,
these data bring the number of likely protocluster members to 25 for a
protostellar density of ~700 pc^-3. Our preliminary measurement of the
Q-parameter of the minimum spanning tree is 0.82 -- close to the value for a
uniform volume distribution. All of the (nine) sources with detections at
multiple frequencies have SEDs consistent with dust emission, and two (SMA1b
and SMA4) also have long wavelength emission consistent with a central
hypercompact HII region. Thermal spectral line emission, including CH3CN, is
detected in six sources: LTE model fitting of CH3CN(J=12-11) yields
temperatures of 72-373K, confirming the presence of multiple hot cores. The
fitted LSR velocities range from -3.3 to -7.0 km/s, with an unbiased mean
square deviation of 2.05 km/s, implying a dynamical mass of 410+-260 Msun for
the protocluster. From analysis of a wide range of hot core molecules, the
kinematics of SMA1b are consistent with a rotating, infalling Keplerian disk of
diameter 800AU and enclosed mass of 10-30 Msun that is perpendicular (within 1
degree) to the large-scale bipolar outflow axis. A companion to SMA1b at a
projected separation of 0.45" (590AU; SMA1d), which shows no evidence of
spectral line emission, is also confirmed. Finally, we detect one 218.440GHz
and several 229.7588GHz Class-I methanol masers.