The PHASE software package allows phylogenetic tree construction with a
number of evolutionary models designed specifically for use with RNA sequences
that have conserved secondary structure. Evolution in the paired regions of
RNAs occurs via compensatory substitutions, hence changes on either side of a
pair are correlated. Accounting for this correlation is important for
phylogenetic inference because it affects the likelihood calculation. In the
present study we use the complete set of tRNA and rRNA sequences from 69
complete mammalian mitochondrial genomes. The likelihood calculation uses two
evolutionary models simultaneously for different parts of the sequence: a
paired-site model for the paired sites and a single-site model for the unpaired
sites. We use Bayesian phylogenetic methods and a Markov chain Monte Carlo
algorithm is used to obtain the most probable trees and posterior probabilities
of clades. The results are well resolved for almost all the important branches
on the mammalian tree. They support the arrangement of mammalian orders within
the four supra-ordinal clades that have been identified by studies of much
larger data sets mainly comprising nuclear genes. Groups such as the hedgehogs
and the murid rodents, which have been problematic in previous studies with
mitochondrial proteins, appear in their expected position with the other
members of their order. Our choice of genes and evolutionary model appears to
be more reliable and less subject to biases caused by variation in base
composition than previous studies with mitochondrial genomes.