Dynamic regression trees are an attractive option for automatic regression
and classification with complicated response surfaces in on-line application
settings. We create a sequential tree model whose state changes in time with
the accumulation of new data, and provide particle learning algorithms that
allow for the efficient on-line posterior filtering of tree-states. A major
advantage of tree regression is that it allows for the use of very simple
models within each partition. The model also facilitates a natural division of
labor in our sequential particle-based inference: tree dynamics are defined
through a few potential changes that are local to each newly arrived
observation, while global uncertainty is captured by the ensemble of particles.
We consider both constant and linear mean functions at the tree leaves, along
with multinomial leaves for classification problems, and propose default prior
specifications that allow for prediction to be integrated over all model
parameters conditional on a given tree. Inference is illustrated in some
standard nonparametric regression examples, as well as in the setting of
sequential experiment design, including both active learning and optimization
applications, and in on-line classification. We detail implementation
guidelines and problem specific methodology for each of these motivating
applications. Throughout, it is demonstrated that our practical approach is
able to provide better results compared to commonly used methods at a fraction
of the cost.