The minimum spanning tree (MST) is a combinatorial optimization problem:
given a connected graph with a real weight ("cost") on each edge, find the
spanning tree that minimizes the sum of the total cost of the occupied edges.
We consider the random MST, in which the edge costs are (quenched) independent
random variables. There is a strongly-disordered spin-glass model due to Newman
and Stein [Phys. Rev. Lett. 72, 2286 (1994)], which maps precisely onto the
random MST. We study scaling properties of random MSTs using a relation between
Kruskal's greedy algorithm for finding the MST, and bond percolation. We solve
the random MST problem on the Bethe lattice (BL) with appropriate wired
boundary conditions and calculate the fractal dimension D=6 of the connected
components. Viewed as a mean-field theory, the result implies that on a lattice
in Euclidean space of dimension d, there are of order W^{d-D} large connected
components of the random MST inside a window of size W, and that d = d_c = D =
6 is a critical dimension. This differs from the value 8 suggested by Newman
and Stein. We also critique the original argument for 8, and provide an
improved scaling argument that again yields d_c=6. The result implies that the
strongly-disordered spin-glass model has many ground states for d>6, and only
of order one below six. The results for MSTs also apply on the Poisson-weighted
infinite tree, which is a mean-field approach to the continuum model of MSTs in
Euclidean space, and is a limit of the BL. In a companion paper we develop an
epsilon=6-d expansion for the random MST on critical percolation clusters.