One major open conjecture in the area of critical random graphs, formulated
by statistical physicists, and supported by a large amount of numerical
evidence over the last decade [23, 24, 28, 63] is as follows: for a wide array
of random graph models with degree exponent $\tau\in (3,4)$, distances between
typical points both within maximal components in the critical regime as well as
on the minimal spanning tree on the giant component in the supercritical regime
scale like $n^{(\tau-3)/(\tau-1)}$.
  In this paper we study the metric space structure of maximal components of
the multiplicative coalescent, in the regime where the sizes converge to
excursions of L\'evy processes "without replacement" [10], yielding a
completely new class of limiting random metric spaces. A by-product of the
analysis yields the continuum scaling limit of one fundamental class of random
graph models with degree exponent $\tau\in (3,4)$ where edges are rescaled by
$n^{-(\tau-3)/(\tau-1)}$ yielding the first rigorous proof of the above
conjecture. The limits in this case are compact "tree-like" random fractals
with finite fractal dimensions and with a dense collection of hubs (infinite
degree vertices) a finite number of which are identified with leaves to form
shortcuts. It is generally believed that dynamic versions of a number of
fundamental random graph models, as one moves from the barely subcritical to
the critical regime can be approximated by the multiplicative coalescent. In
work in progress, the general theory developed in this paper is used to prove
analogous limit results for other random graph models with degree exponent
$\tau\in (3,4)$.