This work illustrates potentials for recognition within {\em ad hoc} sensor
networks if their nodes possess individual inter-related biologically inspired
genetic codes. The work takes ideas from natural immune systems protecting
organisms from infection. Nodes in the present proposal have individual gene
sets fitting into a self organised phylogenetic tree. Members of this
population are genetically ''relatives''. Outsiders cannot easily copy or
introduce a new node in the network without going through a process of
conception between two nodes in the population. Related nodes can locally
decide to check each other for their genetic relation without directly
revealing their gene sets. A copy/clone of a gene sequence or a random gene set
will appear as alien. Nodes go through a cycle of introduction (conception or
''birth'') with parents in the network and later exit from it (''death'').
Hence the phylogenetic tree is dynamic or possesses a genetic drift. Typical
lifetimes of gene sets and number of offspring from different parents affect
this genetic drift and the level of correlation between gene sets. The
frequency of mutations similarly affects the gene pool. Correlation between
genes of the nodes implies a common secret for cryptographic material for
communication and consistency check facilitating intrusion detection and
tracing of events. A node can by itself (non-specifically) recognise an
adversary if it does not respond properly according to its genes. Nodes can
also collaborate to recognise adversaries by communicating response from
intruders to check for consistency with the whole gene pool (phylogenetic
tree).