Sidorenko's conjecture states that for every bipartite graph $H$ on
$\{1,\cdots,k\}$, $\int \prod_{(i,j)\in E(H)} h(x_i, y_j) d\mu^{|V(H)|} \ge
\left( \int h(x,y) \,d\mu^2 \right)^{|E(H)|}$ holds, where $\mu$ is the
Lebesgue measure on $[0,1]$ and $h$ is a bounded, non-negative, symmetric,
measurable function on $[0,1]^2$. An equivalent discrete form of the conjecture
is that the number of homomorphisms from a bipartite graph $H$ to a graph $G$
is asymptotically at least the expected number of homomorphisms from $H$ to the
Erd\H{o}s-R\'{e}nyi random graph with the same expected edge density as $G$. In
this paper, we present two approaches to the conjecture. First, we introduce
the notion of tree-arrangeability, where a bipartite graph $H$ with bipartition
$A \cup B$ is tree-arrangeable if neighborhoods of vertices in $A$ have a
certain tree-like structure. We show that Sidorenko's conjecture holds for all
tree-arrangeable bipartite graphs. In particular, this implies that Sidorenko's
conjecture holds if there are two vertices $a_1, a_2$ in $A$ such that each
vertex $a \in A$ satisfies $N(a) \subseteq N(a_1)$ or $N(a) \subseteq N(a_2)$,
and also implies a recent result of Conlon, Fox, and Sudakov \cite{CoFoSu}.
Second, if $T$ is a tree and $H$ is a bipartite graph satisfying Sidorenko's
conjecture, then it is shown that the Cartesian product $T \Box H$ of $T$ and
$H$ also satisfies Sidorenko's conjecture. This result implies that, for all $d
\ge 2$, the $d$-dimensional grid with arbitrary side lengths satisfies
Sidorenko's conjecture.