The study of extremal problems on triangle areas was initiated in a series of
papers by Erd\H{o}s and Purdy in the early 1970s. In this paper we present new
results on such problems, concerning the number of triangles of the same area
that are spanned by finite point sets in the plane and in 3-space, and the
number of distinct areas determined by the triangles.
  In the plane, our main result is an $O(n^{44/19}) =O(n^{2.3158})$ upper bound
on the number of unit-area triangles spanned by $n$ points, which is the first
breakthrough improving the classical bound of $O(n^{7/3})$ from 1992. We also
make progress in a number of important special cases: We show that (i) For
points in convex position, there exist $n$-element point sets that span
$\Omega(n\log n)$ triangles of unit area. (ii) The number of triangles of
minimum (nonzero) area determined by $n$ points is at most ${2/3}(n^2-n)$;
there exist $n$-element point sets (for arbitrarily large $n$) that span
$(6/\pi^2-o(1))n^2$ minimum-area triangles. (iii) The number of acute triangles
of minimum area determined by $n$ points is O(n); this is asymptotically tight.
(iv) For $n$ points in convex position, the number of triangles of minimum area
is O(n); this is asymptotically tight. (v) If no three points are allowed to be
collinear, there are $n$-element point sets that span $\Omega(n\log n)$
minimum-area triangles (in contrast to (ii), where collinearities are allowed
and a quadratic lower bound holds).
  In 3-space we prove an $O(n^{17/7}\beta(n))= O(n^{2.4286})$ upper bound on
the number of unit-area triangles spanned by $n$ points, where $\beta(n)$ is an
extremely slowly growing function related to the inverse Ackermann function.
The best previous bound, $O(n^{8/3})$, is an old result from 1971.