In computational phylogenetics, the problem of constructing a supertree of a
given set of rooted input trees can be formalized in different ways, to cope
with contradictory information in the input. We consider the Minimum Flip
Supertree problem, where the input trees are transformed into a 0/1/?-matrix,
such that each row represents a taxon, and each column represents an inner node
of one of the input trees. Our goal is to find a perfect phylogeny for the
input matrix requiring a minimum number of 0/1-flips, that is, corrections of
0/1-entries in the matrix. The problem is known to be NP-complete. Here, we
present a parameterized data reduction with polynomial running time. The data
reduction guarantees that the reduced instance has a solution if and only if
the original instance has a solution. We then make our data reduction
parameter-independent by using upper bounds. This allows us to preprocess an
instance, and to solve the reduced instance with an arbitrary method. Different
from an existing data reduction for the consensus tree problem, our reduction
allows us to draw conclusions about certain entries in the matrix. We have
implemented and evaluated our data reduction. Unfortunately, we find that the
Minimum Flip Supertree problem is also hard in practice: The amount of
information that can be derived during data reduction diminishes as instances
get more "complicated", and running times for "complicated" instances quickly
become prohibitive. Still, our method offers another route of attack for this
relevant phylogenetic problem.