The Large Scale Structure (LSS) in the galaxy distribution is investigated
using the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Early Data Release (SDSS EDR). Using the
Minimal Spanning Tree technique we have extracted sets of filaments, of
wall-like structures, of galaxy groups, and of rich clusters from this unique
sample. The physical properties of these structures were then measured and
compared with the expectations from Zel'dovich' theory.
  The measured characteristics of galaxy walls were found to be consistent with
those for a spatially flat $\Lambda$CDM cosmological model with
$\Omega_m\approx$ 0.3 and $\Omega_\Lambda \approx$ 0.7, and for Gaussian
initial perturbations with a Harrison -- Zel'dovich power spectrum.
Furthermore, we found that the mass functions of groups and of unrelaxed
structure elements generally fit well with the expectations from Zel'dovich'
theory, although there was some discrepancy for lower mass groups which may be
due to incompleteness in the selected sample of groups. We also note that both
groups and rich clusters tend to prefer the environments of walls, which tend
to be of higher density, rather than the environments of filaments, which tend
to be of lower density.
  Finally, we note evidence of systematic differences in the properties of the
LSS between the Northern Galactic Cap stripe and the Southern Galactic Cap
stripe -- in particular, in the physical properties of the walls, their spatial
distribution, and the relative numbers of clusters embedded in walls. Because
the mean separation of walls is $\approx$ 60 -- 70$h^{-1}$ Mpc, each stripe
only intersects a few tens of walls. Thus, small number statistics and cosmic
variance are the likely drivers of these systematic differences.