A motive over a field $k$ is of abelian type if it belongs to the thick and
rigid subcategory of Chow motives spanned by the motives of abelian varieties
over $k$. This paper contains three sections of independent interest. First, we
show that a motive which becomes of abelian type after a base field extension
of algebraically closed fields is of abelian type. Given a field extension
$K/k$ and a motive $M$ over $k$, we also show that $M$ is finite-dimensional if
and only if $M_K$ is finite-dimensional. As a corollary, we obtain
Chow--Kuenneth decompositions for varieties that become isomorphic to an
abelian variety after some field extension. Second, let $\Omega$ be a universal
domain containing $k$. We show that Murre's conjectures for motives of abelian
type over $k$ reduce to Murre's conjecture (D) for products of curves over
$\Omega$. In particular, we show that Murre's conjecture (D) for products of
curves over $\Omega$ implies Beauville's vanishing conjecture on abelian
varieties over $k$. Finally, we give criteria on Chow groups for a motive to be
of abelian type. For instance, we show that $M$ is of abelian type if and only
if the total Chow group of algebraically trivial cycles $CH_*(M_\Omega)_{alg}$
is spanned, via the action of correspondences, by the Chow groups of products
of curves. We also show that a morphism of motives $f: N \to M$, with $N$
Kimura finite-dimensional, which induces a surjection $f_* :
CH_*(N_\Omega)_{alg} \to CH_*(M_\Omega)_{alg}$ also induces a surjection $f_* :
CH_*(N_\Omega)_{hom} \to CH_*(M_\Omega)_{hom}$ on homologically trivial cycles.