Recent analyses of mass segregation diagnostics in star forming regions
invite a comparison with the output of hydrodynamic simulations of star
formation. In this work we investigate the state of mass segregation of 'stars'
(i.e. sink particles in the simulations) in the case of hydrodynamical
simulations which omit feedback. We first discuss methods to quantify mass
segregation in substructured regions, either based on the minimum spanning tree
(Allison's Lambda), or through analysis of correlations between stellar mass
and local stellar surface number densities. We find that the presence of even a
single 'outlier' (i.e. a massive object far from other stars) can cause the
Allison Lambda method to describe the system as inversely mass segregated, even
where in reality the most massive sink particles are overwhelmingly in the
centres of the subclusters. We demonstrate that a variant of the Lambda method
is less susceptible to this tendency but also argue for an alternative
representation of the data in the plane of stellar mass versus local surface
number density.
  The hydrodynamical simulations show global mass segregation from very early
times which continues throughout the simulation, being only mildly influenced
during sub-cluster merging.
  We find that up to approx. 2-3% of the "massive" sink particles (m > 2.5
Msun) are in relative isolation because they have formed there, although other
sink particles can form later in their vicinity. Ejections of massive sinks
from subclusters do not contribute to the number of isolated massive sink
particles, as the gravitational softening in the calculation suppresses this
process.