Under the multispecies coalescent model of molecular evolution gene trees
evolve within a species tree, and follow predicted distributions of topologies
and coalescent times. In comparison, supermatrix concatenation methods assume
that gene trees share a common history and equate gene coalescence with species
divergence. The multispecies coalescent is supported by previous studies which
found that its predicted distributions fit empirical data, and that
concatenation is not a consistent estimator of the species tree. *BEAST, a
fully Bayesian implementation of the multispecies coalescent, is popular but
computationally intensive, so the advent of large phylogenomic data sets is
both a computational challenge and an opportunity for better systematics. Using
simulation studies, we characterise the scaling behaviour of *BEAST, and enable
quantitative prediction of the impact increasing the number of loci has on both
computational performance and statistical accuracy. Follow up simulations over
a wide range of parameters show that the statistical performance of *BEAST
relative to concatenation improves both as branch length is reduced and as the
number of loci is increased. Finally, using simulations based on estimated
parameters from two phylogenomic data sets, we compare the performance of a
range of species tree and concatenation methods to show that using *BEAST with
a small subset of loci can be preferable to using concatenation with thousands
of loci. Our results provide insight into the practicalities of Bayesian
species tree estimation, the number of genes required to obtain a given level
of accuracy and the situations in which supermatrix or summary methods will be
outperformed by the fully Bayesian multispecies coalescent.