Membrane proteins move in heterogeneous environments with spatially
(sometimes temporally) varying friction and with biochemical interactions with
various partners. It is important to reliably distinguish different modes of
motion to improve our knowledge of the membrane architecture and to understand
the nature of interactions between membrane proteins and their environments.
Here, we present an analysis technique for single molecule tracking (SMT)
trajectories that can determine the preferred model of motion that best matches
observed trajectories. Information theory criteria, such as the Bayesian
information criterion (BIC), the Akaike information criterion (AIC), and
modified AIC (AICc), are used to select the preferred model. The considered
group of models includes free Brownian motion, and confined motion in 2nd or
4th order potentials. We determine the best information criteria for
classifying trajectories. We tested its limits through simulations matching
large sets of experimental conditions and built a decision tree. This decision
tree first uses the BIC to distinguish between free Brownian motion and
confined motion. In a second step, it classifies the confining potential
further using the AIC. We apply the method to experimental Clostridium
Perfingens epsilon-toxin (CPepsilonT) receptor trajectories to show that these
receptors are confined by a spring-like potential. An adaptation of this
technique was applied on a sliding window in the temporal dimension along the
trajectory. We applied this adaptation to experimental CPepsilonT trajectories
that lose confinement due to disaggregation of confining domains. This new
technique adds another dimension to the discussion of SMT data. The mode of
motion of a receptor holds more biologically relevant information than the
diffusion coefficient or domain size and may be a better tool to classify and
compare different SMT experiments.