Recent inapproximability results of Sly (2010), together with an
approximation algorithm presented by Weitz (2006) establish a beautiful picture
for the computational complexity of approximating the partition function of the
hard-core model. Let $\lambda_c(T_\Delta)$ denote the critical activity for the
hard-model on the infinite $\Delta$-regular tree. Weitz presented an FPTAS for
the partition function when $\lambda<\lambda_c(T_\Delta)$ for graphs with
constant maximum degree $\Delta$. In contrast, Sly showed that for all
$\Delta\geq 3$, there exists $\epsilon_\Delta>0$ such that (unless RP=NP) there
is no FPRAS for approximating the partition function on graphs of maximum
degree $\Delta$ for activities $\lambda$ satisfying
$\lambda_c(T_\Delta)<\lambda<\lambda_c(T_\Delta)+\epsilon_\Delta$.
  We prove that a similar phenomenon holds for the antiferromagnetic Ising
model. Recent results of Li et al. and Sinclair et al. extend Weitz's approach
to any 2-spin model, which includes the antiferromagnetic Ising model, to yield
an FPTAS for the partition function for all graphs of constant maximum degree
$\Delta$ when the parameters of the model lie in the uniqueness regime of the
infinite tree $T_\Delta$. We prove the complementary result that for the
antiferrogmanetic Ising model without external field that, unless RP=NP, for
all $\Delta\geq 3$, there is no FPRAS for approximating the partition function
on graphs of maximum degree $\Delta$ when the inverse temperature lies in the
non-uniqueness regime of the infinite tree $T_\Delta$. Our results extend to a
region of the parameter space for general 2-spin models. Our proof works by
relating certain second moment calculations for random $\Delta$-regular
bipartite graphs to the tree recursions used to establish the critical points
on the infinite tree.