A new class of (not necessarily bounded) operators related to (mainly
infinite) directed trees is introduced and investigated. Operators in question
are to be considered as a generalization of classical weighted shifts, on the
one hand, and of weighted adjacency operators, on the other; they are called
weighted shifts on directed trees. The basic properties of such operators,
including closedness, adjoints, polar decomposition and moduli are studied.
Circularity and the Fredholmness of weighted shifts on directed trees are
discussed. The relationships between domains of a weighted shift on a directed
tree and its adjoint are described. Hyponormality, cohyponormality,
subnormality and complete hyperexpansivity of such operators are entirely
characterized in terms of their weights. Related questions that arose during
the study of the topic are solved as well. Particular trees with one branching
vertex are intensively studied mostly in the context of subnormality and
complete hyperexpansivity of weighted shifts on them. A strict connection of
the latter with $k$-step backward extendibility of subnormal as well as
completely hyperexpansive unilateral classical weighted shifts is established.
Models of subnormal and completely hyperexpansive weighted shifts on these
particular trees are constructed. Various illustrative examples of weighted
shifts on directed trees with the prescribed properties are furnished. Many of
them are simpler than those previously found on occasion of investigating
analogical properties of other classes of operators.