We study the {\em verification} problem in distributed networks, stated as
follows. Let $H$ be a subgraph of a network $G$ where each vertex of $G$ knows
which edges incident on it are in $H$. We would like to verify whether $H$ has
some properties, e.g., if it is a tree or if it is connected. We would like to
perform this verification in a decentralized fashion via a distributed
algorithm. The time complexity of verification is measured as the number of
rounds of distributed communication. In this paper we initiate a systematic
study of distributed verification, and give almost tight lower bounds on the
running time of distributed verification algorithms for many fundamental
problems such as connectivity, spanning connected subgraph, and $s-t$ cut
verification. We then show applications of these results in deriving strong
unconditional time lower bounds on the {\em hardness of distributed
approximation} for many classical optimization problems including minimum
spanning tree, shortest paths, and minimum cut. Many of these results are the
first non-trivial lower bounds for both exact and approximate distributed
computation and they resolve previous open questions. Moreover, our
unconditional lower bound of approximating minimum spanning tree (MST) subsumes
and improves upon the previous hardness of approximation bound of Elkin [STOC
2004] as well as the lower bound for (exact) MST computation of Peleg and
Rubinovich [FOCS 1999]. Our result implies that there can be no distributed
approximation algorithm for MST that is significantly faster than the current
exact algorithm, for {\em any} approximation factor. Our lower bound proofs
show an interesting connection between communication complexity and distributed
computing which turns out to be useful in establishing the time complexity of
exact and approximate distributed computation of many problems.