Continuous data extraction pipelines using wrappers have become common and
integral parts of businesses dealing with stock, flight, or product
information. Extracting data from websites that use HTML templates is difficult
because available wrapper methods are not designed to deal with websites that
change over time (the inclusion or removal of HTML elements). We are the first
to perform large scale empirical analyses of the causes of shift and propose
the concept of domain entropy to quantify it. We draw from this analysis to
propose a new semi-supervised search approach called XTPath. XTPath combines
the existing XPath with carefully designed annotation extraction and informed
search strategies. XTPath is the first method to store contextual node
information from the training DOM and utilize it in a supervised manner. We
utilize this data with our proposed recursive tree matching method which
locates nodes most similar in context. The search is based on a heuristic
function that takes into account the similarity of a tree compared to the
structure that was present in the training data. We systematically evaluate
XTPath using 117,422 pages from 75 diverse websites in 8 vertical markets that
covers vastly different topics. Our XTPath method consistently outperforms
XPath and a current commercial system in terms of successful extractions in a
blackbox test. We are the first supervised wrapper extraction method to make
our code and datasets available (online here:
http://kdl.cs.umb.edu/w/datasets/).