We consider receiver design for coded transmission over linear Gaussian
channels. We restrict ourselves to the class of lattice codes and formulate the
joint detection and decoding problem as a closest lattice point search (CLPS).
Here, a tree search framework for solving the CLPS is adopted. In our
framework, the CLPS algorithm decomposes into the preprocessing and tree search
stages. The role of the preprocessing stage is to expose the tree structure in
a form {\em matched} to the search stage. We argue that the minimum mean square
error decision feedback (MMSE-DFE) frontend is instrumental for solving the
joint detection and decoding problem in a single search stage. It is further
shown that MMSE-DFE filtering allows for using lattice reduction methods to
reduce complexity, at the expense of a marginal performance loss, and solving
under-determined linear systems. For the search stage, we present a generic
method, based on the branch and bound (BB) algorithm, and show that it
encompasses all existing sphere decoders as special cases. The proposed generic
algorithm further allows for an interesting classification of tree search
decoders, sheds more light on the structural properties of all known sphere
decoders, and inspires the design of more efficient decoders. In particular, an
efficient decoding algorithm that resembles the well known Fano sequential
decoder is identified. The excellent performance-complexity tradeoff achieved
by the proposed MMSE-Fano decoder is established via simulation results and
analytical arguments in several MIMO and ISI scenarios.