We investigate the near-infrared K-band properties of the brightest cluster
galaxies (BCGs) in a sample of 93 galaxy clusters and groups, using data from
the Two Micron All Sky Survey. Our cluster sample spans a factor of 70 in mass,
making it sensitive to cluster mass related trends. We study the correlations
between the BCG luminosity L_b and the mass or luminosity of the host clusters,
finding that BCGs in more massive clusters are more luminous than their
counterparts in less massive systems, and that the BCGs become less important
in the overall cluster light L200 as cluster mass increases. We argue that BCGs
grow in luminosity mainly by merging with other luminous galaxies as the host
clusters grow hierarchically; the decreasing BCG luminosity fraction L_b/L_200
with cluster mass indicates that the rate of luminosity growth in BCGs is slow
compared to the rate at which clusters acquire galaxy light from the field or
other merging clusters.
  We use the observed cluster luminosity-mass relation and a merger tree model
to estimate that the amount of intracluster light (ICL) increases with cluster
mass; calculations suggest that in 10^{15}Mo clusters more than 50% of total
stellar mass is in ICL. The cluster baryon fraction accounting for the ICL is
in good agreement with the CMB constraints. The inclusion of ICL reduces
thediscrepancy between the observed cluster cold baryon fraction and that found
in hydro simulations. Based on the observed Fe abundance in the ICM, we find
that the predicted ICL together with the observed galaxy light, match the Fe
mass-tolight ratio expected from simple stellar population models with a
Salpeter IMF. The ICL also makes it easier to produce the Fe core excess found
in cool-core clusters. (abridged)