Stellar-population analyses of today's galaxies show "downsizing", where the
stars in more massive galaxies tend to have formed earlier and over a shorter
time span. We show that this phenomenon is not necessarily "anti-hierarchical"
but rather has its natural roots in the bottom-up clustering process of
dark-matter haloes. While the main progenitor does indeed show an opposite
effect, the integrated mass in all the progenitors down to a given minimum mass
shows a robust downsizing that is qualitatively similar to what has been
observed. These results are derived analytically from the standard extended
Press Schechter (EPS) theory, and are confirmed by merger trees based on EPS or
drawn from N-body simulations. The downsizing is valid for any minimum mass, as
long as it is the same for all haloes at any given time, but the effect is
weaker for smaller minimum mass. If efficient star formation is triggered by
atomic cooling, then a minimum halo mass arises naturally from the minimum
virial temperature for cooling, T~10^4 K, though for such a small minimum mass
the effect is weaker than observed. Baryonic feedback effects, which are
expected to stretch the duration of star formation in small galaxies and shut
it down in massive haloes at late epochs, are likely to play a subsequent role
in shaping up the final downsizing behaviour. Other appearances of downsizing,
such as the decline with time of the typical mass of star-forming galaxies, may
not be attributed to the gravitational clustering process but rather arise from
the gas processes.