This thesis deals with the Tutte polynomial, studied from different points of
view. In the first part, we address the enumeration of planar maps equipped
with a spanning forest, here called forested maps, with a weight $z$ per face
and a weight $u$ per non-root component of the forest. Equivalently, we count
(with respect to the number of faces) the planar maps $C$ weighted by
$T_C(u+1,1)$, where $T_C$ is the Tutte polynomial of $C$. We begin by a purely
combinatorial characterization of the corresponding generating function,
denoted by $F(z,u)$. We deduce from this that $F(z,u)$ is differentially
algebraic in $z$, that is, satisfies a polynomial differential equation in $z$.
Finally, for $u \geq -1$, we study the asymptotic behaviour of the $n$th
coefficient of $F (z,u)$. We observe a phase transition at $0$, with a very
unusual regime in $n^{-3}\ln^{-2} (n)$ for $u \in [-1,0[$, which testifies a
new universality class for planar maps. In the second part, we propose a
framework unifying the notions of activity used in the literature to describe
the Tutte polynomial. The new notion of activity thereby defined is called
$\Delta$-activity. It gathers all the notions of activities that were already
known and has nice properties, as Crapo's property that defines a partition of
the lattice of the spanning subgraphs into intervals with respect to the
activity. Lastly we conjecture that every activity that describes the Tutte
polynomial and that satisfies Crapo's property can be defined in terms of
$\Delta$-activity.