The paper describes clustering problems from the combinatorial viewpoint. A
brief systemic survey is presented including the following: (i) basic
clustering problems (e.g., classification, clustering, sorting, clustering with
an order over cluster), (ii) basic approaches to assessment of objects and
object proximities (i.e., scales, comparison, aggregation issues), (iii) basic
approaches to evaluation of local quality characteristics for clusters and
total quality characteristics for clustering solutions, (iv) clustering as
multicriteria optimization problem, (v) generalized modular clustering
framework, (vi) basic clustering models/methods (e.g., hierarchical clustering,
k-means clustering, minimum spanning tree based clustering, clustering as
assignment, detection of clisue/quasi-clique based clustering, correlation
clustering, network communities based clustering), Special attention is
targeted to formulation of clustering as multicriteria optimization models.
Combinatorial optimization models are used as auxiliary problems (e.g.,
assignment, partitioning, knapsack problem, multiple choice problem,
morphological clique problem, searching for consensus/median for structures).
Numerical examples illustrate problem formulations, solving methods, and
applications. The material can be used as follows: (a) a research survey, (b) a
fundamental for designing the structure/architecture of composite modular
clustering software, (c) a bibliography reference collection, and (d) a
tutorial.