Motion planning problems have been studied by both the robotics and the
controls research communities for a long time, and many algorithms have been
developed for their solution. Among them, incremental sampling-based motion
planning algorithms, such as the Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (RRTs), and the
Probabilistic Road Maps (PRMs) have become very popular recently, owing to
their implementation simplicity and their advantages in handling
high-dimensional problems. Although these algorithms work very well in
practice, the quality of the computed solution is often not good, i.e., the
solution can be far from the optimal one. A recent variation of RRT, namely the
RRT* algorithm, bypasses this drawback of the traditional RRT algorithm, by
ensuring asymptotic optimality as the number of samples tends to infinity.
Nonetheless, the convergence rate to the optimal solution may still be slow.
This paper presents a new incremental sampling-based motion planning algorithm
based on Rapidly-exploring Random Graphs (RRG), denoted RRT# (RRT "sharp")
which also guarantees asymptotic optimality but, in addition, it also ensures
that the constructed spanning tree of the geometric graph is consistent after
each iteration. In consistent trees, the vertices which have the potential to
be part of the optimal solution have the minimum cost-come-value. This implies
that the best possible solution is readily computed if there are some vertices
in the current graph that are already in the goal region. Numerical results
compare with the RRT* algorithm.