We focus on designing combinatorial algorithms for the Capacitated Network
Design problem (Cap-SNDP). The Cap-SNDP is the problem of satisfying
connectivity requirements when edges have costs and hard capacities. We begin
by showing that the Group Steiner tree problem (GST) is a special case of
Cap-SNDP even when there is connectivity requirement between only one
source-sink pair. This implies the first poly-logarithmic lower bound for the
Cap-SNDP. We next provide combinatorial algorithms for several special cases of
this problem. The Cap-SNDP is equivalent to its special case when every edge
has either zero cost or infinite capacity. We consider a special case, called
Connected Cap-SNDP, where all infinite-capacity edges in the solution are
required to form a connected component containing the sinks. This problem is
motivated by its similarity to the Connected Facility Location problem
[G+01,SW04]. We solve this problem by reducing it to Submodular tree cover
problem, which is a common generalization of Connected Cap-SNDP and Group
Steiner tree problem. We generalize the recursive greedy algorithm [CEK]
achieving a poly-logarithmic approximation algorithm for Submodular tree cover
problem. This result is interesting in its own right and gives the first
poly-logarithmic approximation algorithms for Connected hard capacities set
multi-cover and Connected source location.
  We then study another special case of Cap-SNDP called Unbalanced
point-to-point connection problem. Besides its practical applications to shift
design problems [EKS], it generalizes many problems such as k-MST, Steiner
Forest and Point-to-Point Connection. We give a combinatorial logarithmic
approximation algorithm for this problem by reducing it to degree-bounded SNDP.