We evaluate the accuracy of semi-analytic merger-trees by comparing them with
the merging histories of dark-matter halos in N-body simulations, focusing on
the joint distribution of the number of progenitors and their masses. We first
confirm that the halo mass function as predicted directly by the
Press-Schechter (PS) model deviates from the simulations by up to 50% depending
on the mass scale and redshift, while the means of the projected distributions
of progenitor number and mass for a halo of a given mass are more accurately
predicted by the Extended PS model. We then use the full merger trees to study
the joint distribution as a function of redshift and parent-halo mass. We find
that while the deviation of the mean quantities due to the inaccuracy of the
Extended PS model partly propagates into the higher moments of the
distribution, the merger-tree procedure does not introduce a significant
additional source of error. In particular, certain properties of the merging
history such as the mass ratio of the progenitors and the total accretion rate
are reproduced quite accurately for galaxy sized halos ($\sim 10^{12}\msun$),
and less so for larger masses. We conclude that although there could be $\sim
50%$ deviations in the absolute numbers and masses of progenitors and in the
higher order moment of these distributions, the relative properties of
progenitors for a given halo are reproduced fairly well by the merger trees.
They can thus provide a useful framework for modelling galaxy formation once
the above-mentioned limitations are taken into account.