This paper addresses the problem of designing a sparse {\em fault-tolerant}
BFS tree, or {\em FT-BFS tree} for short, namely, a sparse subgraph $T$ of the
given network $G$ such that subsequent to the failure of a single edge or
vertex, the surviving part $T'$ of $T$ still contains a BFS spanning tree for
(the surviving part of) $G$. Our main results are as follows. We present an
algorithm that for every $n$-vertex graph $G$ and source node $s$ constructs a
(single edge failure) FT-BFS tree rooted at $s$ with $O(n \cdot
\min\{\Depth(s), \sqrt{n}\})$ edges, where $\Depth(s)$ is the depth of the BFS
tree rooted at $s$. This result is complemented by a matching lower bound,
showing that there exist $n$-vertex graphs with a source node $s$ for which any
edge (or vertex) FT-BFS tree rooted at $s$ has $\Omega(n^{3/2})$ edges. We then
consider {\em fault-tolerant multi-source BFS trees}, or {\em FT-MBFS trees}
for short, aiming to provide (following a failure) a BFS tree rooted at each
source $s\in S$ for some subset of sources $S\subseteq V$. Again, tight bounds
are provided, showing that there exists a poly-time algorithm that for every
$n$-vertex graph and source set $S \subseteq V$ of size $\sigma$ constructs a
(single failure) FT-MBFS tree $T^*(S)$ from each source $s_i \in S$, with
$O(\sqrt{\sigma} \cdot n^{3/2})$ edges, and on the other hand there exist
$n$-vertex graphs with source sets $S \subseteq V$ of cardinality $\sigma$, on
which any FT-MBFS tree from $S$ has $\Omega(\sqrt{\sigma}\cdot n^{3/2})$ edges.
Finally, we propose an $O(\log n)$ approximation algorithm for constructing
FT-BFS and FT-MBFS structures. The latter is complemented by a hardness result
stating that there exists no $\Omega(\log n)$ approximation algorithm for these
problems under standard complexity assumptions.