By a discrete torus we mean the Cayley graph associated to a finite product
of finite cycle groups with generating set given by choosing a generator for
each cyclic factor. In this article we study the spectral theory of the
combinatorial Laplacian for sequences of discrete tori when the orders of the
cyclic factors tend to infinity at comparable rates. First we show that the
sequence of heat kernels corresponding to the degenerating family converges,
after re-scaling, to the heat kernel on an associated real torus. We then
establish an asymptotic expansion, in the degeneration parameter, of the
determinant of the combinatorial Laplacian. The zeta-regularized determinant of
the Laplacian of the limiting real torus appears as the constant term in this
expansion. On the other hand, using a classical theorem by Kirchhoff the
determinant of the combinatorial Laplacian of a finite graph divided by the
number of vertices equals the number of spanning trees, called the complexity,
of the graph. As a result, we establish a precise connection between the
complexity of the Cayley graphs of finite abelian groups and heights of real
tori. It is also known that spectral determinants on discrete tori can be
expressed using trigonometric functions and that spectral determinants on real
tori can be expressed using modular forms on general linear groups. Another
interpretation of our analysis is thus to establish a link between limiting
values of certain products of trigonometric functions and modular forms. The
heat kernel analysis which we employ uses a careful study of I-Bessel
functions. Our methods extend to prove the asymptotic behavior of other
spectral invariants through degeneration, such as special values of spectral
zeta functions and Epstein-Hurwitz type zeta functions.