Current data of charmless B meson decays to two pseudoscalar mesons (PP) and
one vector and one pseudoscalar mesons (VP) are analyzed within the framework
of flavor SU(3) symmetry, a working principle that we have tested by allowing
symmetry breaking factors in the decay amplitudes and found to be a good
approximate symmetry. In the PP sector, the color-suppressed tree amplitude is
found to be larger than previously known and has a strong phase of ~ -70^o
relative to the color-favored tree amplitude. We have extracted for the first
time the W-exchange and penguin-annihilation amplitudes. The former has a size
of about the QCD-penguin amplitude and a phase opposite to that of the
color-favored tree amplitude, while the latter is suppressed in magnitude but
gives the dominant contribution to the $B_s^0 \to \pi^+ \pi^-$ and $\pi^0
\pi^0$ decays. In the VP sector, one striking feature is that the
color-suppressed tree amplitude with the spectator quark ending up in the
vector meson has a large size and a strong phase of ~ -90^o relative to the
color-favored tree amplitudes. The associated electroweak penguin amplitude
also has a similar strong phase and a magnitude comparable to the corresponding
QCD penguin amplitude. This leads to a large branching fraction of order
10^{-6} for $B_s^0 \to \phi \pi^0$. In contrast, the color-suppressed tree, QCD
penguin, and electroweak penguin amplitudes with the spectator quark ending up
in the pseudoscalar meson have magnitudes more consistent with naive
expectations. Besides, current data are not sufficiently precise for us to fix
the W-exchange amplitudes. For both the PP and VP sectors, predictions of all
the decay modes are made based upon our preferred fit results and compared with
data and those made by perturbative approaches. We have identified a few
observables to be determined experimentally in order to discriminate among
theory calculations.