This article shows how 3D geometric morphometric data can be analyzed using
newly developed distance-based evolutionary tree inference methods, with
extensions to planar graphs. Application of these methods to 3D representations
of the skullcap (calvaria) of 13 diverse skulls in the genus Homo, ranging from
Homo erectus (ergaster) at about 1.6 mya, all the way forward to modern humans,
yields a remarkably clear phylogenetic tree. Various evolutionary hypotheses
are tested. Results of these tests include rejection of the monophyly of Homo
heidelbergensis, the Multi-Regional hypothesis, and the hypothesis that the
unusual 12,000 year old (12kya) Iwo Eleru skull represents a modern human.
Rather, by quantitative phylogenetic analyses the latter is seen to be an old
(200-400kya) lineage that probably represents a novel African species, Homo
iwoelerueensis. It diverged after the lineage leading to Neanderthals, and may
have been driven to extinction in the last 10kya by modern humans, Homo
sapiens, another African species of Homo that appeared about 100kya. Another
enigmatic skull, Qafzeh 6 from the Middle East about 90kya, appears to be a
hybrid of two thirds near, but not, anatomically modern human and one third of
an archaic lineage diverging close to classic European Neanderthals. Overall,
the tree clearly implies an accelerating rate of skullcap shape change, and by
extension, change of the underlying brain, over the last 400kya in Africa. This
acceleration may have extended right up to the origin of modern humans. Methods
of distance-based evolutionary tree inference are refined and extended, with
particular attention to diagnosing the model and achieving a better fit. This
includes power transformations of the input data which favor root Procrustes
distances.