We consider monotonicity problems for graph searching games. Variants of
these games - defined by the type of moves allowed for the players - have been
found to be closely connected to graph decompositions and associated width
measures such as path- or tree-width. Of particular interest is the question
whether these games are monotone, i.e. whether the cops can catch a robber
without ever allowing the robber to reach positions that have been cleared
before. The monotonicity problem for graph searching games has intensely been
studied in the literature, but for two types of games the problem was left
unresolved. These are the games on digraphs where the robber is invisible and
lazy or visible and fast. In this paper, we solve the problems by giving
examples showing that both types of games are non-monotone. Graph searching
games on digraphs are closely related to recent proposals for digraph
decompositions generalising tree-width to directed graphs. These proposals have
partly been motivated by attempts to develop a structure theory for digraphs
similar to the graph minor theory developed by Robertson and Seymour for
undirected graphs, and partly by the immense number of algorithmic results
using tree-width of undirected graphs and the hope that part of this success
might be reproducible on digraphs using a directed tree-width. Unfortunately
the number of applications for the digraphs measures introduced so far is still
small. We therefore explore the limits of the algorithmic applicability of
digraph decompositions. In particular, we show that various natural candidates
for problems that might benefit from digraphs having small directed tree-width
remain NP-complete even on almost acyclic graphs.