A spanning tree with no vertices of degree 2 is called a Homeomorphically
irreducible spanning tree\,(HIST). Based on a HIST embedded in the plane, a
Halin graph is formed by connecting the leaves of the tree into a cycle
following the cyclic order determined by the embedding. Both of the
determination problems of whether a graph contains a HIST or whether a graph
contains a spanning Halin graph are shown to be NP-complete. It was conjectured
by Albertson, Berman, Hutchinson, and Thomassen in 1990 that a {\it every
surface triangulation of at least four vertices contains a HIST}\,(confirmed).
And it was conjectured by Lov\'asz and Plummer that {\it every 4-connected
plane triangulation contains a spanning Halin graph}\,(disproved). Balancing
the above two facts, in this paper, we consider generalized Halin graphs, a
family of graph structures which are "stronger" than HISTs but "weaker" than
Halin graphs in the sense of their construction constraints. To be exact, a
generalized Halin graph is formed from a HIST by connecting its leaves into a
cycle. Since a generalized Halin graph needs not to be planar, we investigate
the minimum degree condition for a graph to contain it as a spanning subgraph.
We show that there exists a positive integer $n_0$ such that any 3-connected
graph with $n\ge n_0$ vertices and minimum degree at least $(2n+3)/5$ contains
a spanning generalized Halin graph. As an application, the result implies that
under the same condition, the graph $G$ contains a wheel-minor of order at
least $n/2$. The minimum degree condition in the result is best possible.