In the classical (min-cost) Steiner tree problem, we are given an
edge-weighted undirected graph and a set of terminal nodes. The goal is to
compute a min-cost tree S which spans all terminals. In this paper we consider
the min-power version of the problem, which is better suited for wireless
applications. Here, the goal is to minimize the total power consumption of
nodes, where the power of a node v is the maximum cost of any edge of S
incident to v. Intuitively, nodes are antennas (part of which are terminals
that we need to connect) and edge costs define the power to connect their
endpoints via bidirectional links (so as to support protocols with ack
messages). Differently from its min-cost counterpart, min-power Steiner tree is
NP-hard even in the spanning tree case, i.e. when all nodes are terminals.
Since the power of any tree is within once and twice its cost, computing a rho
\leq ln(4)+eps [Byrka et al.'10] approximate min-cost Steiner tree provides a
2rho<2.78 approximation for the problem. For min-power spanning tree the same
approach provides a 2 approximation, which was improved to 5/3+eps with a
non-trivial approach in [Althaus et al.'06]. Here we present an improved
approximation algorithm for min-power Steiner tree. Our result is based on two
main ingredients. We prove the first decomposition theorem for min-power
Steiner tree, in the spirit of analogous structural results for min-cost
Steiner tree and min-power spanning tree. Based on this theorem, we define a
proper LP relaxation, that we exploit within the iterative randomized rounding
framework in [Byrka et al.'10]. A careful analysis provides a 3ln
4-9/4+eps<1.91 approximation factor. The same approach gives an improved
1.5+eps approximation for min-power spanning tree as well, matching the
approximation factor in [Nutov and Yaroshevitch'09] for the special case of
min-power spanning tree with edge weights in {0,1}.