Let S be a compact connected oriented surface with one boundary component,
and let P be the fundamental group of S. The Johnson filtration is a decreasing
sequence of subgroups of the Torelli group of S, whose k-th term consists of
the self-homeomorphisms of S that act trivially at the level of the k-th
nilpotent quotient of P. Morita defined a homomorphism from the k-th term of
the Johnson filtration to the third homology group of the k-th nilpotent
quotient of P. In this paper, we replace groups by their Malcev Lie algebras
and we study the "infinitesimal" version of the k-th Morita homomorphism, which
is shown to correspond to the original version by a canonical isomorphism. We
provide a diagrammatic description of the k-th infinitesimal Morita
homomorphism and, given an expansion of the free group P that is "symplectic"
in some sense, we show how to compute it from Kawazumi's "total Johnson map".
Besides, we give a topological interpretation of the full tree-reduction of the
LMO homomorphism, which is a diagrammatic representation of the Torelli group
derived from the Le-Murakami-Ohtsuki invariant of 3-manifolds. More precisely,
a symplectic expansion of P is constructed from the LMO invariant, and it is
shown that the tree-level of the LMO homomorphism is equivalent to the total
Johnson map induced by this specific expansion. It follows that the k-th
infinitesimal Morita homomorphism coincides with the degree [k,2k[ part of the
tree-reduction of the LMO homomorphism. Our results also apply to the monoid of
homology cylinders over S.