The scaling behaviour of randomly branched polymers in a good solvent is
studied in two to nine dimensions, using as microscopic models lattice animals
and lattice trees on simple hypercubic lattices. As a stochastic sampling
method we use a biased sequential sampling algorithm with re-sampling, similar
to the pruned-enriched Rosenbluth method (PERM) used extensively for linear
polymers. Essentially we start simulating percolation clusters (either site or
bond), re-weigh them according to the animal (tree) ensemble, and prune or
branch the further growth according to a heuristic fitness function. In
contrast to previous applications of PERM, this fitness function is {\it not}
the weight with which the actual configuration would contribute to the
partition sum, but is closely related to it. We obtain high statistics of
animals with up to several thousand sites in all dimension 2 <= d <= 9. In
addition to the partition sum (number of different animals) we estimate
gyration radii and numbers of perimeter sites. In all dimensions we verify the
Parisi-Sourlas prediction, and we verify all exactly known critical exponents
in dimensions 2, 3, 4, and >= 8. In addition, we present the hitherto most
precise estimates for growth constants in d >= 3. For clusters with one site
attached to an attractive surface, we verify the superuniversality of the
cross-over exponent at the adsorption transition predicted by Janssen and
Lyssy. Finally, we discuss the collapse of animals and trees, arguing that our
present version of the algorithm is also efficient for some of the models
studied in this context, but showing that it is {\it not} very efficient for
the `classical' model for collapsing animals.