The ground state structure of the two-dimensional random field Ising magnet
is studied using exact numerical calculations. First we show that the
ferromagnetism, which exists for small system sizes, vanishes with a large
excitation at a random field strength dependent length scale. This {\it
break-up length scale} $L_b$ scales exponentially with the squared random
field, $\exp(A/\Delta^2)$. By adding an external field $H$ we then study the
susceptibility in the ground state. If $L>L_b$, domains melt continuously and
the magnetization has a smooth behavior, independent of system size, and the
susceptibility decays as $L^{-2}$. We define a random field strength dependent
critical external field value $\pm H_c(\Delta)$, for the up and down spins to
form a percolation type of spanning cluster. The percolation transition is in
the standard short-range correlated percolation universality class. The mass of
the spanning cluster increases with decreasing $\Delta$ and the critical
external field approaches zero for vanishing random field strength, implying
the critical field scaling (for Gaussian disorder) $H_c \sim (\Delta
-\Delta_c)^\delta$, where $\Delta_c = 1.65 \pm 0.05$ and $\delta=2.05\pm 0.10$.
Below $\Delta_c$ the systems should percolate even when H=0. This implies that
even for H=0 above $L_b$ the domains can be fractal at low random fields, such
that the largest domain spans the system at low random field strength values
and its mass has the fractal dimension of standard percolation $D_f = 91/48$.
The structure of the spanning clusters is studied by defining {\it red
clusters}, in analogy to the ``red sites'' of ordinary site-percolation. The
size of red clusters defines an extra length scale, independent of $L$.