This paper focuses on analyzing the finite-time convergence of a nonlinear
consensus algorithm for multi-agent networks with unknown inherent nonlinear
dynamics. Due to the existence of the unknown inherent nonlinear dynamics, the
stability analysis and the finite-time convergence analysis of the closed-loop
system under the proposed consensus algorithm are more challenging than those
under the well-studied consensus algorithms for known linear systems. For this
purpose, we propose a novel stability tool based on a generalized comparison
lemma. With the aid of the novel stability tool, it is shown that the proposed
nonlinear consensus algorithm can guarantee finite-time convergence if the
directed switching interaction graph has a directed spanning tree at each time
interval. Specifically, the finite-time convergence is shown by comparing the
closed-loop system under the proposed consensus algorithm with some
well-designed closed-loop system whose stability properties are easier to
obtain. Moreover, the stability and the finite-time convergence of the
closed-loop system using the proposed consensus algorithm under a (general)
directed switching interaction graph can even be guaranteed by the stability
and the finite-time convergence of some special well-designed nonlinear
closed-loop system under some special directed switching interaction graph,
where each agent has at most one neighbor whose state is either the maximum of
those states that are smaller than its own state or the minimum of those states
that are larger than its own state. This provides a stimulating example for the
potential applications of the proposed novel stability tool in the stability
analysis of linear/nonlinear closed-loop systems by making use of known results
in linear/nonlinear systems. For illustration of the theoretical result, we
provide a simulation example.