We investigate different ways of generating approximate solutions to the
pairwise Markov random field (MRF) selection problem. We focus mainly on the
inverse Ising problem, but discuss also the somewhat related inverse Gaussian
problem because both types of MRF are suitable for inference tasks with the
belief propagation algorithm (BP) under certain conditions. Our approach
consists in to take a Bethe mean-field solution obtained with a maximum
spanning tree (MST) of pairwise mutual information, referred to as the
\emph{Bethe reference point}, for further perturbation procedures. We consider
three different ways following this idea: in the first one, we select and
calibrate iteratively the optimal links to be added starting from the Bethe
reference point; the second one is based on the observation that the natural
gradient can be computed analytically at the Bethe point; in the third one,
assuming no local field and using low temperature expansion we develop a dual
loop joint model based on a well chosen fundamental cycle basis. We indeed
identify a subclass of planar models, which we refer to as \emph{Bethe-dual
graph models}, having possibly many loops, but characterized by a singly
connected dual factor graph, for which the partition function and the linear
response can be computed exactly in respectively O(N) and $O(N^2)$ operations,
thanks to a dual weight propagation (DWP) message passing procedure that we set
up. When restricted to this subclass of models, the inverse Ising problem being
convex, becomes tractable at any temperature. Experimental tests on various
datasets with refined $L_0$ or $L_1$ regularization procedures indicate that
these approaches may be competitive and useful alternatives to existing ones.