In this paper, we consider different aspects of the network functional
compression problem where computation of a function (or, some functions) of
sources located at certain nodes in a network is desired at receiver(s). The
rate region of this problem has been considered in the literature under certain
restrictive assumptions, particularly in terms of the network topology, the
functions and the characteristics of the sources. In this paper, we present
results that significantly relax these assumptions. Firstly, we consider this
problem for an arbitrary tree network and asymptotically lossless computation.
We show that, for depth one trees with correlated sources, or for general trees
with independent sources, a modularized coding scheme based on graph colorings
and Slepian-Wolf compression performs arbitrarily closely to rate lower bounds.
For a general tree network with independent sources, optimal computation to be
performed at intermediate nodes is derived. We introduce a necessary and
sufficient condition on graph colorings of any achievable coding scheme, called
coloring connectivity condition (C.C.C.).
  Secondly, we investigate the effect of having several functions at the
receiver. In this problem, we derive a rate region and propose a coding scheme
based on graph colorings. Thirdly, we consider the functional compression
problem with feedback. We show that, in this problem, unlike Slepian-Wolf
compression, by having feedback, one may outperform rate bounds of the case
without feedback. Fourthly, we investigate functional computation problem with
distortion. We compute a rate-distortion region for this problem. Then, we
propose a simple suboptimal coding scheme with a non-trivial performance
guarantee. Finally, we introduce cases where finding minimum entropy colorings
and therefore, optimal coding schemes can be performed in polynomial time.