As researchers collect increasingly large molecular data sets to reconstruct
the Tree of Life, the heterogeneity of signals in the genomes of diverse
organisms poses challenges for traditional phylogenetic analysis. A class of
phylogenetic methods known as "species tree methods" have been proposed to
directly address one important source of gene tree heterogeneity, namely the
incomplete lineage sorting or deep coalescence that occurs when evolving
lineages radiate rapidly, resulting in a diversity of gene trees from a single
underlying species tree. Although such methods are gaining in popularity, they
are being adopted with caution in some quarters, in part because of an
increasing number of examples of strong phylogenetic conflict between
concatenation or supermatrix methods and species tree methods. Here we review
theory and empirical examples that help clarify these conflicts. Thinking of
concatenation as a special case of the more general model provided by the
multispecies coalescent can help explain a number of differences in the
behavior of the two methods on phylogenomic data sets. Recent work suggests
that species tree methods are more robust than concatenation approaches to some
of the classic challenges of phylogenetic analysis, including rapidly evolving
sites in DNA sequences, base compositional heterogeneity and long branch
attraction. We show that approaches such as binning, designed to augment the
signal in species tree analyses, can distort the distribution of gene trees and
are inconsistent. Computationally efficient species tree methods that
incorporate biological realism are a key to phylogenetic analysis of whole
genome data.