Simple flavor symmetry argument without QCD dynamics shows why CP violation
observed in neutral $B$ to $K\pi$ decays is absent in charged B decays where
tree diagram final state has two $u$ quarks satisfying Pauli principle.
Entanglement preserves short range symmetry correlations after separation into
two mesons. Pauli principle and symmetries require totally flavor-symmetric
tree diagram final state. $\pi \pi$ isospin state with I=2 already is flavor
symmetric and suffers no symmetry constraint. Strange flavor-symmetric state
with V spin V=2 is linear combination of $K\pi$ and $K \eta$ with probability
only (1/4) for $K\pi$. Tree diagram suppression by factor 4 not present in
neutral decays explains negligible tree-penguin interference and CP violation
in charged decays. Detailed full symmetry analysis shows constraints from
space-inversion, charge conjugation, Pauli antisymmetrization and flavor
symmetry. Two antiquarks produced at same space point by tree diagram have even
parity. Even parity final state requires even parity, even space symmetry and
color-spin antisymmetry for two $u$ quarks. Color-singlet spin-singlet final
state requires color-spin antisymmetry and therefore flavor symmetry for
two-antiquark wave function. Flavor symmetric $\bar u \bar d$ and $\bar u \bar
s$ antiquark pairs have isospin I=1 and V-spin V =1. Generalized charge
conjugation invariance requires I=2 for $\pi\pi$ tree diagram and V = 2 for
$K\pi$. Penguin decays give I = 1/2 final state and no CP violation.
Experiments confirm surprising predictions from tree suppression factor not
noted in previous analyzes. I=1/2 violations seen only in relation between
charged and neutral decays together with no I=3/2 components in each individual
decay. Common treatments using $\pi \pi$ data fail to fit $K\pi$ data.