We present a detailed study of simple `tree' models for off equilibrium
dynamics and aging in glassy systems. The simplest tree describes the landscape
of a random energy model, whereas multifurcating trees occur in the solution of
the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model. An important ingredient taken from these
models is the exponential distribution of deep free-energies, which translate
into a power-law distribution of the residence time within metastable
`valleys'. These power law distributions have infinite mean in the spin-glass
phase and this leads to the aging phenomenon. To each level of the tree are
associated an overlap and the exponent of the time distribution. We solve these
models for a finite (but arbitrary) number of levels and show that a two level
tree accounts very well for many experimental observations (thermoremanent
magnetisation, a.c susceptibility, second noise spectrum....). We introduce the
idea that the deepest levels of the tree correspond to equilibrium dynamics
whereas the upper levels correspond to aging. Temperature cycling experiments
suggest that the borderline between the two is temperature dependent. The
spin-glass transition corresponds to the temperature at which the uppermost
level is put out of equilibrium but is subsequently followed by a sequence of
(dynamical) phase transitions corresponding to non equilibrium dynamics within
deeper and deeper levels. We tentatively try to relate this `tree' picture to
the real space `droplet' model, and speculate on how the final description of
spin-glasses might look like.