Recently, M\"omke and Svensson presented a beautiful new approach for the
traveling salesman problem on a graph metric (graph-TSP), which yielded a
$\frac{4}{3}$-approximation guarantee on subcubic graphs as well as a
substantial improvement over the $\frac{3}{2}$-approximation guarantee of
Christofides' algorithm on general graphs. The crux of their approach is to
compute an upper bound on the minimum cost of a circulation in a particular
network, $C(G,T)$, where $G$ is the input graph and $T$ is a carefully chosen
spanning tree. The cost of this circulation is directly related to the number
of edges in a tour output by their algorithm. Mucha subsequently improved the
analysis of the circulation cost, proving that M\"omke and Svensson's algorithm
for graph-TSP has an approximation ratio of at most $\frac{13}{9}$ on general
graphs.
  This analysis of the circulation is local, and vertices with degree four and
five can contribute the most to its cost. Thus, hypothetically, there could
exist a subquartic graph (a graph with degree at most four at each vertex) for
which Mucha's analysis of the M\"omke-Svensson algorithm is tight. We show that
this is not the case and that M\"omke and Svensson's algorithm for graph-TSP
has an approximation guarantee of at most $\frac{46}{33}$ on subquartic graphs.
To prove this, we present a different method to upper bound the minimum cost of
a circulation on the network $C(G,T)$. Our approximation guarantee actually
holds for all graphs that have an optimal solution to a standard linear
programming relaxation of graph-TSP with subquartic support.