Understanding the formation and evolution of young star clusters requires
quantitative statistical measures of their structure. We investigate the
structures of observed and modelled star-forming clusters. By considering the
different evolutionary classes in the observations and the temporal evolution
in models of gravoturbulent fragmentation, we study the temporal evolution of
the cluster structures. We apply different statistical methods, in particular
the normalised mean correlation length and the minimum spanning tree technique.
We refine the normalisation of the clustering parameters by defining the area
using the normalised convex hull of the objects and investigate the effect of
two-dimensional projection of three-dimensional clusters. We introduce a new
measure $\xi$ for the elongation of a cluster. It is defined as the ratio of
the cluster radius determined by an enclosing circle to the cluster radius
derived from the normalised convex hull. The mean separation of young stars
increases with the evolutionary class, reflecting the expansion of the cluster.
The clustering parameters of the model clusters correspond in many cases well
to those from observed ones, especially when the $\xi$ values are similar. No
correlation of the clustering parameters with the turbulent environment of the
molecular cloud is found, indicating that possible influences of the
environment on the clustering behaviour are quickly smoothed out by the stellar
velocity dispersion. The temporal evolution of the clustering parameters shows
that the star cluster builds up from several subclusters and evolves to a more
centrally concentrated cluster, while the cluster expands slower than new stars
are formed.