One of the most important features of spatial networks such as transportation
networks, power grids, Internet, neural networks, is the existence of a cost
associated with the length of links. Such a cost has a profound influence on
the global structure of these networks which usually display a hierarchical
spatial organization. The link between local constraints and large-scale
structure is however not elucidated and we introduce here a generic model for
the growth of spatial networks based on the general concept of cost benefit
analysis. This model depends essentially on one single scale and produces a
family of networks which range from the star-graph to the minimum spanning tree
and which are characterised by a continuously varying exponent. We show that
spatial hierarchy emerges naturally, with structures composed of various hubs
controlling geographically separated service areas, and appears as a
large-scale consequence of local cost-benefit considerations. Our model thus
provides the first building blocks for a better understanding of the evolution
of spatial networks and their properties. We also find that, surprisingly, the
average detour is minimal in the intermediate regime, as a result of a large
diversity in link lengths. Finally, we estimate the important parameters for
various world railway networks and find that --remarkably-- they all fall in
this intermediate regime, suggesting that spatial hierarchy is a crucial
feature for these systems and probably possesses an important evolutionary
advantage.