Given a tree and a set ${\cal P}$ of non-trivial simple paths on it,
$VPT({\cal P})$ is the VPT graph (i.e. the vertex intersection graph) of the
paths ${\cal P}$ of the tree $T$, and $EPT({\cal P})$ is the EPT graph (i.e.
the edge intersection graph) of ${\cal P}$. These graphs have been extensively
studied in the literature. Given two (edge) intersecting paths in a graph,
their \emph{split vertices} is the set of vertices having degree at least $3$
in their union. A pair of (edge) intersecting paths is termed
\emph{non-splitting} if they do not have split vertices (namely if their union
is a path).
  In this work, motivated by an application in all-optical networks, we define
the graph $ENPT({\cal P})$ of edge-intersecting non-splitting paths of a tree,
termed the ENPT graph, as the (edge) graph having a vertex for each path in
${\cal P}$, and an edge between every pair of paths that are both
edge-intersecting and non-splitting. A graph $G$ is an ENPT graph if there is a
tree $T$ and a set of paths ${\cal P}$ of $T$ such that $G=ENPT({\cal P})$, and
we say that $<T,{\cal P}>$ is a \emph{representation} of $G$. We first show
that cycles, trees and complete graphs are ENPT graphs.
  Our work follows the lines of Golumbic and Jamison's research in which they
defined the EPT graph class, and characterized the representations of chordless
cycles (holes). It turns out that ENPT holes have a more complex structure than
EPT holes. In our analysis, we assume that the EPT graph corresponding to a
representation of an ENPT hole is given. We also introduce three assumptions
$(P1)$, $(P2)$, $(P3)$ defined on EPT, ENPT pairs of graphs. In this Part I,
using the results of Golumbic and Jamison as building blocks, we characterize
(a) EPT, ENPT pairs that satisfy $(P1)$, $(P2)$, $(P3)$, and (b) the unique
minimal representation of such pairs.