We define the following parameter of connected graphs. For a given graph $G$
we place one agent in each vertex of $G$. Every pair of agents sharing a common
edge is declared to be acquainted. In each round we choose some matching of $G$
(not necessarily a maximal matching), and for each edge in the matching the
agents on this edge swap places. After the swap, again, every pair of agents
sharing a common edge become acquainted, and the process continues. We define
the \emph{acquaintance time} of a graph $G$, denoted by $AC(G)$, to be the
minimal number of rounds required until every two agents are acquainted.
  We first study the acquaintance time for some natural families of graphs
including the path, expanders, the binary tree, and the complete bipartite
graph. We also show that for all positive integers $n$ and $k \leq n^{1.5}$
there exists an $n$-vertex graph $G$ such that $AC(G) =\Theta(k)$. We also
prove that for all $n$-vertex connected graphs $G$ we have $AC(G) =
O\left(\frac{n^2}{\log(n)/\log\log(n)}\right)$, improving the $O(n^2)$ trivial
upper bound achieved by sequentially letting each agent perform depth-first
search along a spanning tree of $G$.
  Studying the computational complexity of this problem, we prove that for any
constant $t \geq 1$ the problem of deciding that a given graph $G$ has $AC(G)
\leq t$ or $AC(G) \geq 2t$ is $\mathcal{NP}$-complete. That is, $AC(G)$ is
$\mathcal{NP}$-hard to approximate within multiplicative factor of 2, as well
as within any additive constant factor.
  On the algorithmic side, we give a deterministic algorithm that given a graph
$G$ with $AC(G)=1$ finds a ${\lceil n/c\rceil}$-rounds strategy for
acquaintance in time $n^{c+O(1)}$. We also design a randomized polynomial time
algorithm that given a graph $G$ with $AC(G)=1$ finds with high probability an
$O(\log(n))$-rounds strategy for acquaintance.