We study restricted computation models related to the Tree Evaluation
Problem}. The TEP was introduced in earlier work as a simple candidate for the
(*very*) long term goal of separating L and LogDCFL. The input to the problem
is a rooted, balanced binary tree of height h, whose internal nodes are labeled
with binary functions on [k] = {1,...,k} (each given simply as a list of k^2
elements of [k]), and whose leaves are labeled with elements of [k]. Each node
obtains a value in [k] equal to its binary function applied to the values of
its children, and the output is the value of the root. The first restricted
computation model, called Fractional Pebbling, is a generalization of the
black/white pebbling game on graphs, and arises in a natural way from the
search for good upper bounds on the size of nondeterministic branching programs
(BPs) solving the TEP - for any fixed h, if the binary tree of height h has
fractional pebbling cost at most p, then there are nondeterministic BPs of size
O(k^p) solving the height h TEP. We prove a lower bound on the fractional
pebbling cost of d-ary trees that is tight to within an additive constant for
each fixed d. The second restricted computation model we study is a semantic
restriction on (non)deterministic BPs solving the TEP - Thrifty BPs.
Deterministic (resp. nondeterministic) thrifty BPs suffice to implement the
best known algorithms for the TEP, based on black (resp. fractional) pebbling.
In earlier work, for each fixed h a lower bound on the size of deterministic
thrifty BPs was proved that is tight for sufficiently large k. We give an
alternative proof that achieves the same bound for all k. We show the same
bound still holds in a less-restricted model, and also that gradually weaker
lower bounds can be obtained for gradually weaker restrictions on the model.