Tree projections provide a mathematical framework that encompasses all the
various (purely) structural decomposition methods that have been proposed in
the literature to single out classes of nearly-acyclic (hyper)graphs, such as
the tree decomposition method, which is the most powerful decomposition method
on graphs, and the (generalized) hypertree decomposition method, which is its
natural counterpart on arbitrary hypergraphs. The paper analyzes this
framework, by focusing in particular on "minimal" tree projections, that is, on
tree projections without useless redundancies. First, it is shown that minimal
tree projections enjoy a number of properties that are usually required for
normal form decompositions in various structural decomposition methods. In
particular, they enjoy the same kind of connection properties as (minimal) tree
decompositions of graphs, with the result being tight in the light of the
negative answer that is provided to the open question about whether they enjoy
a slightly stronger notion of connection property, defined to speed-up the
computation of hypertree decompositions. Second, it is shown that tree
projections admit a natural game-theoretic characterization in terms of the
Captain and Robber game. In this game, as for the Robber and Cops game
characterizing tree decompositions, the existence of winning strategies implies
the existence of monotone ones. As a special case, the Captain and Robber game
can be used to characterize the generalized hypertree decomposition method,
where such a game-theoretic characterization was missing and asked for. Besides
their theoretical interest, these results have immediate algorithmic
applications both for the general setting and for structural decomposition
methods that can be recast in terms of tree projections.