We report on the chemical abundances derived from high-dispersion spectra of
14 red giant stars in the Sagittarius dwarf spheroidal (Sgr dSph) galaxy. The
stars span a wide range of metallicities, -1.6 < [Fe/H] < -0.1 dex, and exhibit
very unusual abundance variations. For metal-poor stars with [Fe/H] < -1,
[alpha/Fe] \approx +0.3 similar to Galactic halo stars, but for more metal-rich
stars the relationship of [alpha/Fe] as a function of [Fe/H] is lower than that
of the Galactic disk by 0.1 dex. The light elements [Al/Fe] and [Na/Fe] are
sub-solar by an even larger amount, 0.4 dex. The pattern of neutron-capture
heavy elements, as indicated by [La/Fe] and [La/Eu], shows an increasing
s-process component with increasing [Fe/H], up to [La/Fe] \sim +0.7 dex for the
most metal-rich Sgr dSph stars. The large [La/Y] ratios show that the s-process
enrichments came from the metal-poor population. We can best understand the
observed abundances with a model in which the Sgr dSph formed stars over a many
Gyr and lost a significant fraction of its gas during its evolution. Low-mass,
metal-poor AGB stars polluted the more metal-rich stars with s-process
elements, and type Ia SNe from low-mass progenitors enriched the ISM with
iron-peak metals. The type II/type Ia SNe ratio was smaller than in the
Galactic disk, presumably due to a slower star formation rate; this resulted in
the observed low [alpha/Fe], [Al/Fe] and [Na/Fe] ratios. The fact that Sgr
stars span such a wide range in metallicity leads us to conclude that their age
spread is even larger than previously inferred. We derive ages using the Padova
models (Girardi et al. 2000) that span \sim 0.5 to 13 Gyr, implying a very long
duration of star formation in the central regions of the Sgr dSph.