Web crawling, snowball sampling, and respondent-driven sampling (RDS) are
three types of network driven sampling techniques that are popular when it is
difficult to contact individuals in the population of interest. This paper
studies network driven sampling as a Markov process on the social network that
is indexed by a tree. Each node in this tree corresponds to an observation and
each edge in the tree corresponds to a referral. Indexing with a tree, instead
of a chain, allows for the sampled units to refer multiple future units into
the sample.
  In survey sampling, the design effect characterizes the additional variance
induced by a novel sampling strategy. If the design effect is DE, then
constructing an estimator from the novel design makes the variance of the
estimator DE times greater than it would be under a simple random sample. Under
certain assumptions on the referral tree, the design effect of network driven
sampling has a critical threshold that is a function of the referral rate $m$
and the clustering structure in the social network, represented by the second
eigenvalue of the Markov transition matrix, $\lambda_2$. If $m <
1/\lambda_2^2$, then the design effect is finite (i.e. the standard estimator
is $\sqrt{n}$-consistent). However, if $m > 1/\lambda_2^2$, then the design
effect grows with $n$ (i.e. the standard estimator is no longer
$\sqrt{n}$-consistent). Past the critical threshold, the estimator converges at
the slower rate of $\log_m \lambda_2$. The Markov model allows for nodes to be
resampled. Under certain conditions, the rate of resampling is not affected by
the critical threshold, so long as $n = o(\sqrt{N})$, where $n$ is the sample
size and $N$ is the population size.