In this paper we show that both music composition and brain function, as
revealed by the Electroencephalogram (EEG) analysis, are renewal non-Poisson
processes living in the non-ergodic dominion. To reach this important
conclusion we process the data with the minimum spanning tree method, so as to
detect significant events, thereby building a sequence of times, which is the
time series to analyze. Then we show that in both cases, EEG and music
composition, these significant events are the signature of a non-Poisson
renewal process. This conclusion is reached using a techniques of statistical
analysis recently developed by our group, the Aging Experiment (AE). First, we
find that in both cases the distances between two consecutive events are
described by non-exponential histograms, thereby proving the non-Poisson nature
of these processes. The corresponding survival probabilities $\Psi(t)$ are well
fitted by stretched exponentials ($\Psi(t) \propto exp(-(\gamma t)^\alpha$),
with $0.5 <\alpha <1$.) The second step rests on the adoption of the AE, which
shows that these are renewal processes. We show that the renewal stretched
exponential is the emerging tip of an iceberg, whose underwater part has slow
tails with an inverse power law structure with power index $\mu = 1 + \alpha$.
We find that both EEG and music composition yield $\mu < 2$. On the basis of
the recently discovered complexity matching effect, according to which a
complex system $S$ with $\mu_S < 2$ responds only to a complex driving signal
$P$ with $\mu_P = \mu_S$, we conclude that the results of our analysis may
explain the influence of music on human brain.