In parameterized complexity, it is a natural idea to consider different
generalizations of classic problems. Usually, such generalization are obtained
by introducing a "relaxation" variable, where the original problem corresponds
to setting this variable to a constant value. For instance, the problem of
packing sets of size at most $p$ into a given universe generalizes the Maximum
Matching problem, which is recovered by taking $p=2$. Most often, the
complexity of the problem increases with the relaxation variable, but very
recently Abasi et al. have given a surprising example of a problem ---
$r$-Simple $k$-Path --- that can be solved by a randomized algorithm with
running time $O^*(2^{O(k \frac{\log r}{r})})$. That is, the complexity of the
problem decreases with $r$. In this paper we pursue further the direction
sketched by Abasi et al. Our main contribution is a derandomization tool that
provides a deterministic counterpart of the main technical result of Abasi et
al.: the $O^*(2^{O(k \frac{\log r}{r})})$ algorithm for $(r,k)$-Monomial
Detection, which is the problem of finding a monomial of total degree $k$ and
individual degrees at most $r$ in a polynomial given as an arithmetic circuit.
Our technique works for a large class of circuits, and in particular it can be
used to derandomize the result of Abasi et al. for $r$-Simple $k$-Path. On our
way to this result we introduce the notion of representative sets for
multisets, which may be of independent interest. Finally, we give two more
examples of problems that were already studied in the literature, where the
same relaxation phenomenon happens. The first one is a natural relaxation of
the Set Packing problem, where we allow the packed sets to overlap at each
element at most $r$ times. The second one is Degree Bounded Spanning Tree,
where we seek for a spanning tree of the graph with a small maximum degree.