New data analysis with Pauli blocking and entanglement explains CP violation
in $B^o\rightarrow K\pi$ decays, absence in $B^{\pm} \rightarrow K\pi$ decays
and predicts unexpected contrast between pure I=1/2 in individual $B^{\pm}$ and
$B^o$ final states and I=1/2 violation in relations between them. Analysis of
$B\rightarrow K\pi$ data predicts these observed isospin relations and explains
dependence on spectator quark flavor. $B^+ \rightarrow K\pi$ tree diagram $\bar
b u\rightarrow \bar s u \bar u u$ has two identical $u$ quarks from weak vertex
and spectator. The Pauli principle requires these quarks at short distances to
have wave functions antisymmetric in color or spin. The eigenvalues of
conserved symmetries remain entangled in a final state of two separated mesons.
This Pauli entanglement suppresses tree-penguin interference and CP violation
in $B^+$ decay but not in $B^o$ decay with spectator $d$ quark.
  The four-body wave function must have two antiquarks with the same symmetry
combining with two u-quarks to fragment into a two-pseudoscalar-meson state
even under charge conjugation with angular momentum zero. It is classified in
the 27-dimensional representation of flavor SU(3) with isospin I=2 for the $\pi
\pi$ state and V spin V=2 for the corresponding strange state which is linear
combination of $K\pi$ and $K\eta_8$. These symmetries remain entangled in
four-body wave function even after separation into two mesons. Strong Pauli
suppression in tree transitions to $K\pi$ which has only a small V=2 component
and is mainly V=1. No Pauli suppression in transitions to I=2 $\pi \pi$ state
with also two $u$ quarks but different color-spin couplings. Standard
definition of independent color favored and suppressed tree diagrams in
$B^\pm\rightarrow K\pi$ decays neglects $uu$ Pauli entanglement.