Deep graph-theoretic ideas in the context with the graph of the World Wide
Web led to the definition of Google's PageRank and the subsequent rise of the
most-popular search engine to date. Brain graphs, or connectomes, are being
widely explored today. We believe that non-trivial graph theoretic concepts,
similarly as it happened in the case of the World Wide web, will lead to
discoveries enlightening the structural and also the functional details of the
animal and human brains. When scientists examine large networks of tens or
hundreds of millions of vertices, only fast algorithms can be applied because
of the size constraints. In the case of diffusion MRI-based structural human
brain imaging, the effective vertex number of the connectomes, or brain graphs
derived from the data is on the scale of several hundred today. That size
facilitates applying strict mathematical graph algorithms even for some
hard-to-compute (or NP-hard) quantities like vertex cover or balanced minimum
cut. In the present work we have examined brain graphs, computed from the data
of the Human Connectome Project, recorded from male and female subjects between
ages 22 and 35. Significant differences were found between the male and female
structural brain graphs: we show that the average female connectome has more
edges, is a better expander graph, has larger minimal bisection width, and has
more spanning trees than the average male connectome. Since the average female
brain weights less than the brain of males, these properties show that the
female brain is more "well-connected" or perhaps, more "efficient" in a sense
than the brain of males.