We present high statistics simulations of weighted lattice bond animals and
lattice trees on the square lattice, with fugacities for each non-bonded
contact and for each bond between two neighbouring monomers. The simulations
are performed using a newly developed sequential sampling method with
resampling, very similar to the pruned-enriched Rosenbluth method (PERM) used
for linear chain polymers. We determine with high precision the line of second
order transitions from an extended to a collapsed phase in the resulting
2-dimensional phase diagram. This line includes critical bond percolation as a
multicritical point, and we verify that this point divides the line into two
different universality classes. One of them corresponds to the collapse driven
by contacts and includes the collapse of (weakly embeddable) trees, but the
other is {\it not yet} bond driven and does not contain the Derrida-Herrmann
model as special point. Instead it ends at a multicritical point $P^*$ where a
transition line between two collapsed phases (one bond-driven and the other
contact-driven) sparks off. The Derrida-Herrmann model is representative for
the bond driven collapse, which then forms the fourth universality class on the
transition line (collapsing trees, critical percolation, intermediate regime,
and Derrida-Herrmann). We obtain very precise estimates for all critical
exponents for collapsing trees. It is already harder to estimate the critical
exponents for the intermediate regime. Finally, it is very difficult to obtain
with our method good estimates of the critical parameters of the
Derrida-Herrmann universality class. As regards the bond-driven to
contact-driven transition in the collapsed phase, we have some evidence for its
existence and rough location, but no precise estimates of critical exponents.