Polarisation measurements of pulsars offer an unique insight into the
geometry of the emission regions in the neutron star magnetosphere. Therefore,
they provide observational constraints on the different models proposed for the
pulsar emission mechanisms. Optical polarisation data of the Vela pulsar was
obtained from the {\em Hubble Space Telescope} ({\em HST}) archive. The data,
obtained in two filters (F606W; central wavelength = 590.70 nm, and F550M;
central wavelength = 558.15 nm), consists of a series of observations of the
pulsar taken with the {\em HST}/Advanced Camera for Surveys (ACS) and covers a
time span of 5 days. This data have been used to carry out the first
high-spatial resolution and multi-epoch study of the polarisation of the
pulsar. We produced polarisation vector maps of the region surrounding the
pulsar and measured the degree of linear polarisation (P.D.) and the position
angle (P.A.) of the pulsar's integrated pulse beam. %This yielded We obtained
$\rm P.D.=8.1\%\pm0.7\%$ and $\rm P.A.=146.3\degr\pm2.4\degr$, averaged over
the time span covered by these observations. These results not only confirm
those originally obtained by \citecontributor{Wagner00} and \citecontributor{Mignani07},
both using the Very Large Telescope (VLT), but are of greater precision.
Furthermore, we confirm that the P.A. of the pulsar polarisation vector is
aligned with the direction of the pulsar proper-motion. The pulsar wind nebula
(PWN) is undetected in polarised light as is the case in unpolarised light,
down to a flux limit of 26.8 magnitudes arcsec$^{-2}$.