For a given graph $G=(V,\, E)$ with a terminal set $S$ and a selected root
$r\in S$, a positive integer cost and a delay on every edge and a delay
constraint $D\in Z^{+}$, the shallow-light Steiner tree (\emph{SLST}) problem
is to compute a minimum cost tree spanning the terminals of $S$, in which the
delay between root and every vertex is restrained by $D$. This problem is
NP-hard and very hard to approximate. According to known inapproximability
results, this problem admits no approximation with ratio better than factor
$(1,\, O(\log^{2}n))$ unless $NP\subseteq DTIME(n^{\log\log n})$
\cite{khandekar2013some}, while it admits no approximation ratio better than
$(1,\, O(\log|V|))$ for D=4 unless $NP\subseteq DTIME(n^{\log\log n})$
\cite{bar2001generalized}. Hence, the paper focus on parameterized algorithm
for \emph{SLST}. We firstly present an exact algorithm for \emph{SLST} with
time complexity $O(3^{|S|}|V|D+2^{|S|}|V|^{2}D^{2}+|V|^{3}D^{3})$, where $|S|$
and $|V|$ are the number of terminals and vertices respectively. This is a
pseudo polynomial time parameterized algorithm with respect to the
parameterization: "number of terminals". Later, we improve this algorithm such
that it runs in polynomial time
$O(\frac{|V|^{2}}{\epsilon}3^{|S|}+\frac{|V|^{4}}{\epsilon}2^{|S|}+\frac{|V|^{6}}{\epsilon})$,
and computes a Steiner tree with delay bounded by $(1+\epsilon)D$ and cost
bounded by the cost of an optimum solution, where $\epsilon>0$ is any small
real number. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first parameterized
approximation algorithm for the \emph{SLST} problem.