Principal components (PCA) and hierarchical clustering are two of the most
heavily used techniques for analyzing the differences between nucleic acid
sequence samples sampled from a given environment. However, a classical
application of these techniques to distances computed between samples can lack
transparency because there is no ready interpretation of the axes of classical
PCA plots, and it is difficult to assign any clear intuitive meaning to either
the internal nodes or the edge lengths of trees produced by distance-based
hierarchical clustering methods such as UPGMA. We show that more interesting
and interpretable results are produced by two new methods that leverage the
special structure of phylogenetic placement data. Edge principal components
analysis enables the detection of important differences between samples that
contain closely related taxa. Each principal component axis is simply a
collection of signed weights on the edges of the phylogenetic tree, and these
weights are easily visualized by a suitable thickening and coloring of the
edges. Squash clustering outputs a (rooted) clustering tree in which each
internal node corresponds to an appropriate "average" of the original samples
at the leaves below the node. Moreover, the length of an edge is a suitably
defined distance between the averaged samples associated with the two incident
nodes, rather than the less interpretable average of distances produced by
UPGMA. We present these methods and illustrate their use with data from the
microbiome of the human vagina.