We study the problem of evaluating a discrete function by adaptively querying
the values of its variables until the values read uniquely determine the value
of the function. Reading the value of a variable is done at the expense of some
cost, and the goal is to design a strategy (decision tree) for evaluating the
function incurring as little cost as possible in the worst case or in
expectation (according to a prior distribution on the possible variables
assignments). Except for particular cases of the problem, in general, only the
minimization of one of these two measures is addressed in the literature.
However, there are instances of the problem for which the minimization of one
measure leads to a strategy with a high cost with respect to the other measure
(even exponentially bigger than the optimal). We provide a new construction
which can guarantee a trade-off between the two criteria. More precisely, given
a decision tree guaranteeing expected cost $E$ and a decision tree guaranteeing
worst cost $W$ our method can guarantee for any chosen trade-off value $\rho$
to produce a decision tree whose worst cost is $(1 + \rho)W$ and whose expected
cost is $(1 + \frac{1}{\rho})E.$ These bounds are improved for the relevant
case of uniform testing costs. Motivated by applications, we also study a
variant of the problem where the cost of reading a variable depends on the
variable's value. We provide an $O(\log n)$ approximation algorithm for the
minimization of the worst cost measure, which is best possible under the
assumption $P \neq NP$.