Operators of networks covering large areas are confronted with demands from
some of their customers who are virtual service providers. These providers may
call for the connectivity service which fulfils the specificity of their
services, for instance a multicast transition with allocated bandwidth. On the
other hand, network operators want to make profit by trading the connectivity
service of requested quality to their customers and to limit their
infrastructure investments (or do not invest anything at all).
  We focus on circuit switching optical networks and work on repetitive
multicast demands whose source and destinations are {\em \`a priori} known by
an operator. He may therefore have corresponding trees "ready to be allocated"
and adapt his network infrastructure according to these recurrent
transmissions. This adjustment consists in setting available branching routers
in the selected nodes of a predefined tree. The branching nodes are
opto-electronic nodes which are able to duplicate data and retransmit it in
several directions. These nodes are, however, more expensive and more energy
consuming than transparent ones.
  In this paper we are interested in the choice of nodes of a multicast tree
where the limited number of branching routers should be located in order to
minimize the amount of required bandwidth. After formally stating the problem
we solve it by proposing a polynomial algorithm whose optimality we prove. We
perform exhaustive computations to show an operator gain obtained by using our
algorithm. These computations are made for different methods of the multicast
tree construction. We conclude by giving dimensioning guidelines and outline
our further work.