A Cayley tree model of idiotypic networks that includes both B cell and
antibody dynamics is formulated and analyzed. As in models with B cells only,
localized states exist in the network with limited numbers of activated clones
surrounded by virgin or near-virgin clones. The existence and stability of
these localized network states are explored as a function of model parameters.
As in previous models that have included antibody, the stability of immune and
tolerant localized states are shown to depend on the ratio of antibody to B
cell lifetimes as well as the rate of antibody complex removal. As model
parameters are varied, localized steady-states can break down via two routes:
dynamically, into chaotic attractors, or structurally into percolation
attractors. For a given set of parameters, percolation and chaotic attractors
can coexist with localized attractors, and thus there do not exist clear cut
boundaries in parameter space that separate regions of localized attractors
from regions of percolation and chaotic attractors. Stable limit cycles, which
are frequent in the two-clone antibody B cell (AB) model, are only observed in
highly connected networks. Also found in highly connected networks are
localized chaotic attractors. As in experiments by Lundkvist et al. (1989),
injection of $Ab_1$ antibodies into a system operating in the chaotic regime
can cause a cessation of fluctuations of $Ab_1$ and $Ab_2$ antibodies, a
phenomenon already observed in the two-clone AB model. Interestingly, chaotic
fluctuations continue at higher levels of the tree, a phenomenon observed by
Lundkvist et al. but not accounted for previously.