We perform a search for sources of gamma-rays with energies E>100 GeV at low
Galactic latitudes |b|<10 deg using the data of Fermi telescope. To separate
compact gamma-ray sources from the diffuse emission from the Galaxy, we use the
Minimal Spanning Tree method with threshold of 5 events in inner Galaxy
(Galactic longitude |l|<60 deg) and of 3 events in outer Galaxy. Using this
method, we identify 22 clusters of very-high-energy (VHE) gamma-rays, which we
consider as "source candidates". 3 out of 22 event clusters are expected to be
produced in result of random coincidences of arrival directions of diffuse
background photons. To distinguish clusters of VHE events produced by real
sources from the background we perform likelihood analysis on each source
candidate. We present a list of 19 higher significance sources for which the
likelihood analysis in the energy band E>100 GeV gives Test Statistics (TS)
values above 25. Only 10 out of the 19 high-significance sources can be readily
identified with previously known VHE gamma-ray sources. 4 sources could be
parts of extended emission from known VHE gamma-ray sources. Five sources are
new detections in the VHE band. Among these new detections we tentatively
identify one source as a possible extragalactic source PMN J1603-4904 (a blazar
candidate), one as a pulsar wind nebula around PSR J1828-1007. High
significance cluster of VHE events is also found at the position of a source
coincident with the Eta Carinae nebula. In the Galactic Center region, strong
VHE gamma-ray signal is detected from Sgr C molecular cloud, but not from the
Galactic Center itself.