We examine the effects of pre-processing across the Coma Supercluster,
including 3505 galaxies over 500 sq deg, by quantifying the degree to which
star-forming (SF) activity is quenched as a function of environment. We
characterise environment using the complementary techniques of Voronoi
Tessellation, to measure the density field, and the Minimal Spanning Tree, to
define continuous structures, and so we measure SF activity as a function of
local density and the type of environment (cluster, group, filament, and void),
and quantify the degree to which environment contributes to quenching of SF
activity. Our sample covers over two orders of magnitude in stellar mass
(10^8.5 to 10^11 Msun), and consequently we trace the effects of environment on
SF activity for dwarf and massive galaxies, distinguishing so-called "mass
quenching" from "environment quenching". Environmentally-driven quenching of SF
activity, measured relative to the void galaxies, occurs to progressively
greater degrees in filaments, groups, and clusters, and this trend holds for
dwarf and massive galaxies alike. A similar trend is found using g-r colours,
but with a more significant disparity between galaxy mass bins driven by
increased internal dust extinction in massive galaxies. The SFR distributions
of massive SF galaxies have no significant environmental dependence, but the
distributions for dwarf SF galaxies are found to be statistically distinct in
most environments. Pre-processing plays a significant role at low redshift, as
environmentally-driven galaxy evolution affects nearly half of the galaxies in
the group environment, and a significant fraction of the galaxies in the more
diffuse filaments. Our study underscores the need for sensitivity to dwarf
galaxies to separate mass-driven from environmentally-driven effects, and the
use of unbiased tracers of SF activity.