In this paper we introduce a continuous time stochastic neurite branching
model closely related to the discrete time stochastic BES-model. The discrete
time BES-model is underlying current attempts to simulate cortical development,
but is difficult to analyze. The new continuous time formulation facilitates
analytical treatment thus allowing us to examine the structure of the model
more closely. We derive explicit expressions for the time dependent
probabilities p(\gamma, t) for finding a tree \gamma at time t, valid for
arbitrary continuous time branching models with tree and segment dependent
branching rates. We show, for the specific case of the continuous time
BES-model, that as expected from our model formulation, the sums needed to
evaluate expectation values of functions of the terminal segment number
\mu(f(n),t) do not depend on the distribution of the total branching
probability over the terminal segments. In addition, we derive a system of
differential equations for the probabilities p(n,t) of finding n terminal
segments at time t. For the continuous BES-model, this system of differential
equations gives direct numerical access to functions only depending on the
number of terminal segments, and we use this to evaluate the development of the
mean and standard deviation of the number of terminal segments at a time t. For
comparison we discuss two cases where mean and variance of the number of
terminal segments are exactly solvable. Then we discuss the numerical
evaluation of the S-dependence of the solutions for the continuous time
BES-model. The numerical results show clearly that higher S values, i.e. values
such that more proximal terminal segments have higher branching rates than more
distal terminal segments, lead to more symmetrical trees as measured by three
tree symmetry indicators.