In this paper we extend the geometric binary search tree (BST) model of
Demaine, Harmon, Iacono, Kane, and Patrascu (DHIKP) to accommodate for
insertions and deletions. Within this extended model, we study the online
Greedy BST algorithm introduced by DHIKP. Greedy BST is known to be equivalent
to a maximally greedy (but inherently offline) algorithm introduced
independently by Lucas in 1988 and Munro in 2000, conjectured to be dynamically
optimal.
  With the application of forbidden-submatrix theory, we prove a quasilinear
upper bound on the performance of Greedy BST on deque sequences. It has been
conjectured (Tarjan, 1985) that splay trees (Sleator and Tarjan, 1983) can
serve such sequences in linear time. Currently neither splay trees, nor other
general-purpose BST algorithms are known to fulfill this requirement. As a
special case, we show that Greedy BST can serve output-restricted deque
sequences in linear time. A similar result is known for splay trees (Tarjan,
1985; Elmasry, 2004).
  As a further application of the insert-delete model, we give a simple proof
that, given a set U of permutations of [n], the access cost of any BST
algorithm is Omega(log |U| + n) on "most" of the permutations from U. In
particular, this implies that the access cost for a random permutation of [n]
is Omega(n log n) with high probability.
  Besides the splay tree noted before, Greedy BST has recently emerged as a
plausible candidate for dynamic optimality. Compared to splay trees, much less
effort has gone into analyzing Greedy BST. Our work is intended as a step
towards a full understanding of Greedy BST, and we remark that
forbidden-submatrix arguments seem particularly well suited for carrying out
this program.