Wireless transmission using non-contiguous chunks of spectrum is becoming
increasingly important due to a variety of scenarios such as: secondary users
avoiding incumbent users in TV white space; anticipated spectrum sharing
between commercial and military systems; and spectrum sharing among
uncoordinated interferers in unlicensed bands. Multi-Channel Multi-Radio (MCMR)
platforms and Non-Contiguous Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
(NC-OFDMA) technology are the two commercially viable transmission choices to
access these non-contiguous spectrum chunks. Fixed MC-MRs do not scale with
increasing number of non-contiguous spectrum chunks due to their fixed set of
supporting radio front ends. NC-OFDMA allows nodes to access these
non-contiguous spectrum chunks and put null sub-carriers in the remaining
chunks. However, nulling sub-carriers increases the sampling rate (spectrum
span) which, in turn, increases the power consumption of radio front ends. Our
work characterizes this trade-off from a cross-layer perspective, specifically
by showing how the slope of ADC/DAC power consumption versus sampling rate
curve influences scheduling decisions in a multi-hop network. Specifically, we
provide a branch and bound algorithm based mixed integer linear programming
solution that performs joint power control, spectrum span selection, scheduling
and routing in order to minimize the system power of multi-hop NC-OFDMA
networks. We also provide a low complexity (O(E^2 M^2)) greedy algorithm where
M and E denote the number of channels and links respectively. Numerical
simulations suggest that our approach reduces system power by 30% over
classical transmit power minimization based cross-layer algorithms.