The determinization of Buchi automata is a celebrated problem, with
applications in synthesis, probabilistic verification, and multi-agent systems.
Since the 1960s, there has been a steady progress of constructions: by
McNaughton, Safra, Piterman, Schewe, and others. Despite the proliferation of
solutions, they are all essentially ad-hoc constructions, with little theory
behind them other than proofs of correctness. Since Safra, all optimal
constructions employ trees as states of the deterministic automaton, and
transitions between states are defined operationally over these trees. The
operational nature of these constructions complicates understanding,
implementing, and reasoning about them, and should be contrasted with
complementation, where a solid theory in terms of automata run DAGs underlies
modern constructions.
  In 2010, we described a profile-based approach to Buchi complementation,
where a profile is simply the history of visits to accepting states. We
developed a structural theory of profiles and used it to describe a
complementation construction that is deterministic in the limit. Here we extend
the theory of profiles to prove that every run DAG contains a profile tree with
at most a finite number of infinite branches. We then show that this property
provides a theoretical grounding for a new determinization construction where
macrostates are doubly preordered sets of states. In contrast to extant
determinization constructions, transitions in the new construction are
described declaratively rather than operationally.