While studying response trajectory, often the population of interest may be
diverse enough to exist distinct subgroups within it and the longitudinal
change in response may not be uniform in these subgroups. That is, the
timeslope and/or influence of covariates in longitudinal profile may vary among
these different subgroups. For example, Raudenbush (2001) used depression as an
example to argue that it is incorrect to assume that all the people in a given
population would be experiencing either increasing or decreasing levels of
depression. In such cases, traditional linear mixed effects model (assuming
common parametric form for covariates and time) is not directly applicable for
the entire population as a group-averaged trajectory can mask important
subgroup differences. Our aim is to identify and characterize longitudinally
homogeneous subgroups based on the combination of baseline covariates in the
most parsimonious way. This goal can be achieved via constructing regression
tree for longitudinal data using baseline covariates as partitioning variables.
We have proposed LongCART algorithm to construct regression tree for the
longitudinal data. In each node, the proposed LongCART algorithm determines the
need for further splitting (i.e. whether parameter(s) of longitudinal profile
is influenced by any baseline attributes) via parameter instability tests and
thus the decision of further splitting is type-I error controlled. We have
obtained the asymptotic results for the proposed instability test and examined
finite sample behavior of the whole algorithm through simulation studies.
Finally, we have applied the LongCART algorithm to study the longitudinal
changes in choline level among HIV patients.