We study the problem of enumerating all rooted directed spanning trees
(arborescences) of a directed graph (digraph) $G=(V,E)$ of $n$ vertices. An
arborescence $A$ consisting of edges $e_1,\ldots,e_{n-1}$ can be represented as
a monomial $e_1\cdot e_2 \cdots e_{n-1}$ in variables $e \in E$. All
arborescences $\mathsf{arb}(G)$ of a digraph then define the Kirchhoff
polynomial $\sum_{A \in \mathsf{arb}(G)} \prod_{e\in A} e$. We show how to
compute a compact representation of the Kirchhoff polynomial -- its prime
factorization, and how it relates to combinatorial properties of digraphs such
as strong connectivity and vertex domination. In particular, we provide digraph
decomposition rules that correspond to factorization steps of the polynomial,
and also give necessary and sufficient primality conditions of the resulting
factors expressed by connectivity properties of the corresponding decomposed
components. Thereby, we obtain a linear time algorithm for decomposing a
digraph into components corresponding to factors of the initial polynomial, and
a guarantee that no finer factorization is possible. The decomposition serves
as a starting point for a recursive deletion-contraction algorithm, and also as
a preprocessing phase for iterative enumeration algorithms. Both approaches
produce a compressed output and retain some structural properties in the
resulting polynomial. This proves advantageous in practical applications such
as calculating steady states on digraphs governed by Laplacian dynamics, or
computing the greatest common divisor of Kirchhoff polynomials. Finally, we
initiate the study of a class of digraphs which allow for a practical
enumeration of arborescences. Using our decomposition rules we observe that
various digraphs from real-world applications fall into this class or are
structurally similar to it.