An {\em ancestry labeling scheme} labels the nodes of any tree in such a way
that ancestry queries between any two nodes in a tree can be answered just by
looking at their corresponding labels. The common measure to evaluate the
quality of an ancestry labeling scheme is by its {\em label size}, that is the
maximal number of bits stored in a label, taken over all $n$-node trees. The
design of ancestry labeling schemes finds applications in XML search engines.
In the context of these applications, even small improvements in the label size
are important. In fact, the literature about this topic is interested in the
exact label size rather than just its order of magnitude. As a result,
following the proposal of an original scheme of size $2\log n$ bits, a
considerable amount of work was devoted to improve the bound on the label size.
The current state of the art upper bound is $\log n + O(\sqrt{\log n})$ bits
which is still far from the known $\log n + \Omega(\log\log n)$ lower bound.
Moreover, the hidden constant factor in the additive $O(\sqrt{\log n})$ term is
large, which makes this term dominate the label size for typical current XML
trees.
  In attempt to provide good performances for real XML data, we rely on the
observation that the depth of a typical XML tree is bounded from above by a
small constant. Having this in mind, we present an ancestry labeling scheme of
size $\log n+2\log d +O(1)$, for the family of trees with at most $n$ nodes and
depth at most $d$. In addition to our main result, we prove a result that may
be of independent interest concerning the existence of a linear {\em universal
graph} for the family of forests with trees of bounded depth.