The International System is a self-organized system that shows emergent
behavior. During the timeframe (1495-1945) covered in this study, a finite-time
singularity and four accompanying accelerating log-periodic cycles shaped the
dynamics of the International System. Each cycle began and ended with a
systemic war. During their life span, these cycles show remarkable regularities
in their dynamics. The accelerated growth of the connectivity of the regulatory
network of the International System, in combination with its anarchistic
structure, produce and shape the war dynamics of the system. The accelerated
growth of the connectivity of the International System is fed by population
growth and the need for social systems to fulfill basic requirements. The
finite-time singularity and accompanying log-periodic oscillations were
instrumental in the periodic reorganization of the regulatory network of the
International System and contributed to a long-term process of social expansion
and integration in Europe. The singularity dynamic produced a series of
organizational innovations. At the critical time of the singularity (1939), the
connectivity of the system reached a critical threshold and resulted in a
critical transition that led to a fundamental reorganization of the
International System. Europe transformed from an anarchistic system to a
cooperative security community. During the life span of the cycles, the war
dynamics showed chaotic characteristics. These findings have implications for
the social sciences and historical research.