We introduce a new hierarchy of higher-order nested pushdown trees
generalising Alur et al.'s concept of nested pushdown trees. Nested pushdown
trees are useful representations of control flows in the verification of
programs with recursive calls of first-order functions. Higher-order nested
pushdown trees are expansions of unfoldings of graphs generated by higher-order
pushdown systems. Moreover, the class of nested pushdown trees of level n is
uniformly first-order interpretable in the class of collapsible pushdown graphs
of level n+1. The relationship between the class of higher-order pushdown
graphs and the class of collapsible higher-order pushdown graphs is not very
well understood. We hope that the further study of the nested pushdown tree
hierarchy leads to a better understanding of these two hierarchies. In this
paper, we are concerned with the first-order model checking problem on
higher-order nested pushdown trees. We show that the first-order model checking
on the first two levels of this hierarchy is decidable. Moreover, we obtain an
2-EXPSPACE algorithm for the class of nested pushdown trees of level 1. The
proof technique involves a pseudo-local analysis of strategies in the
Ehrenfeucht-Fraisse games on two identical copies of a nested pushdown tree.
Ordinary locality arguments in the spirit of Gaifman's lemma do not apply here
because nested pushdown trees tend to have small diameters. We introduce the
notion of relevant ancestors which provide a sufficient description of the FO_k
-type of each element in a higher-order nested pushdown tree. The local
analysis of these ancestors allows us to prove the existence of restricted
winning strategies in the Ehrenfeucht-Fraisse game. These strategies are then
used to create a first-order model checking algorithm.