Recent work has established that large informatics graphs such as social and
information networks have non-trivial tree-like structure when viewed at
moderate size scales. Here, we present results from the first detailed
empirical evaluation of the use of tree decomposition (TD) heuristics for
structure identification and extraction in social graphs. Although TDs have
historically been used in structural graph theory and scientific computing, we
show that---even with existing TD heuristics developed for those very different
areas---TD methods can identify interesting structure in a wide range of
realistic informatics graphs. Among other things, we show that TD methods can
identify structures that correlate strongly with the core-periphery structure
of realistic networks, even when using simple greedy heuristics; we show that
the peripheral bags of these TDs correlate well with low-conductance
communities (when they exist) found using local spectral computations; and we
show that several types of large-scale "ground-truth" communities, defined by
demographic metadata on the nodes of the network, are well-localized in the
large-scale and/or peripheral structures of the TDs. Our detailed empirical
results for different TD heuristics on toy and synthetic networks help to
establish a baseline to understand better the behavior of the heuristics on
more complex real-world networks; and our results here suggest future
directions for the development of improved TD heuristics that are more
appropriate for improved structure identification in realistic networks.