Recent work has considered the use of densely-sampled genetic data to
reconstruct the transmission trees linking infectors and infectees in
outbreaks. Because transmission trees from one outbreak do not generalize to
future outbreaks, scientific insights that can inform public health policy are
more likely to be obtained by using genetic sequence data to estimate
transmission parameters more precisely (e.g., covariate effects on
infectiousness and susceptibility). In a survival analysis framework,
transmission parameter estimation is based on sums or averages over possible
transmission trees. By providing partial information about who-infected-whom, a
phylogeny can increase the efficiency of these estimates. The leaves of the
phylogeny represent sampled pathogens, which have known hosts. The interior
nodes represent common ancestors of sampled pathogens, which have unknown
hosts. We show that there is a one-to-one relationship between the possible
assignments of interior node hosts and the transmission trees simultaneously
consistent with the phylogeny and the epidemiologic data on person, place, and
time. We develop algorithms to find the set of possible hosts at each interior
node, to generate all possible transmission trees given these host sets, and to
assign branching times to a phylogeny with known interior node hosts. For any
possible transmission tree, there is at least one assignment of branching times
in the phylogeny that is consistent with the epidemiologic data. Finally, the
host set algorithm can be adapted to account for known branching times in the
phylogeny. A simulation study confirms that a phylogeny substantially increases
the efficiency of estimated hazard ratios for infectiousness and
susceptibility. We use these methods to analyze data from foot-and-mouth
disease virus outbreaks in the United Kingdom in 2001 and 2007.