We introduce polytopal cell complexes associated with partial acyclic
orientations of a simple graph, which generalize acyclic orientations. Using
the theory of cellular resolutions, two of these polytopal cell complexes are
observed to minimally resolve certain special combinatorial polynomial ideals
related to acyclic orientations. These ideals are explicitly found to be
Alexander dual, which relative to comparable results in the literature,
generalizes in a cleaner and more illuminating way the well-known duality
between permutohedron and tree ideals. The combinatorics underlying these
results naturally leads to a canonical way to represent rooted spanning forests
of a labelled simple graph as non-crossing trees, and these representations are
observed to carry a plethora of information about generalized tree ideals and
acyclic orientations of a graph, and about non-crossing partitions of a totally
ordered set. A small sample of the enumerative and structural consequences of
collecting and organizing this information are studied in detail. Applications
of this combinatorial miscellanea are then introduced and explored, namely:
Stochastic processes on state space equal to the set of all acyclic
orientations of a simple graph, including irreducible Markov chains, which
exhibit stationary distributions ranging from linear extensions-based to
uniform; a surprising formula for the expected number of acyclic orientations
of a random graph; and a purely algebraic presentation of the main problem in
bootstrap percolation, likely making it tractable to explore the set of all
percolating sets of a graph with a computer.