The simplest generalization of Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer BCS theory [1] is
offered to articulate high-critical temperature superconductivity HTS [2] in
HgBa2CuO4+delta, from a normal state where delta-O controlled local crystal
field causes states related to two non-hybridizing bands to coalesce at EF.
Low-energy instabilities in the hole doped cuprates include besides short range
antiferromagnetic fluctuations and superconductivity also ubiquitous
translational and rotational symmetry breakings [3-6]. The overwhelming
majority of interpretations of these possibly related properties rely on
mappings onto three bands spanned by the three atomic orbitals Cu3d(x2-y2)
(sigma), O2px(sigma), and O2py(sigma), these three local orbitals spanning the
Zhang-Rice band (ZRB) [7], the lower and upper Hubbard bands, i.e. LHB, and
UHB, respectively. Here we demonstrate by means of supercell DFT for three
different hole dopings (a) how oxygen intercalation affects the structures of
the buffer layers, and (b) how the attenuated crystal field pulls two
additional oxygen bands in the CuO2 plane to the Fermi level. The dramatic
self-consistent changes in electronic structure as reflected in the
complementary changes in external potential, i.e. relaxed ionic positions,
comprise formal properties of the Hohenberg-Kohn theorems [8]. Validation of
the usefulness of present days approximate exchange-correlation potentials to
capture these qualitative effects by means of supercell DFT is made by
comparing computed doping dependent structural shifts to corresponding
experimentally observed correlations [9]. A strategy for utilizing Q=0 DFT and
supercell DFT in search of new HTS materials emerges.