The bottom line of this study is (i) to check whether normal (quiescent) and
interacting EGs have a different behavior in the popular diagnostic planes such
as Hb vs. [MgFe] (and others); (ii) to seek whether the signature of mergers
and/or interactions may mirror in some specific changes of the indices that
could un-equivocally hint for burts of stellar activity; (iii) to evaluate the
intensity of those bursts or secondary episodes of star formation; (iv) to
explore whether other alternatives can exist, i.e. distinct from obvious ones
resting on large age range. The data show that both normal, field and
interacting galaxies have the same scattered but smooth distribution in the Hb
vs. [MgFe] diagnostic plane. There are two interpretations for this: (1) EGs
span larges ranges of ages and metallicities. (2) The bulk population of stars
is old but subsequent episodes of star formation scatter the object in the
diagnostic planes. Both these interpretation are not able to reproduce the
observed distribution. The above schemes are too demanding because of the many
ad hoc ingredients that have to be introduced. Furthermore they neglect the
observationally grounded hint that the stellar content of EGs is likely
enhanced in alfa-elements. We propose here a new scheme, in which the bulk
dispersion of galaxies in the index-index plane is caused by a different mean
degree of enhancement. The possibility that EGs span large ranges of [alpha/Fe]
and metallicities but narrow ranges of ages for the bulk population favors the
monolithic scheme.