Collaborative editing consists in editing a common document shared by several
independent sites. This may give rise to conficts when two different users
perform simultaneous uncompatible operations. Centralized systems solve this
problem by using locks that prevent some modifications to occur and leave the
resolution of confict to users. On the contrary, peer to peer (P2P) editing
doesn't allow locks and the optimistic approach uses a Integration
Transformation IT that reconciliates the conficting operations and ensures
convergence (all copies are identical on each site). Two properties TP1 and
TP2, relating the set of allowed operations Op and the transformation IT, have
been shown to ensure the correctness of the process. The choice of the set Op
is crucial to define an integration operation that satisfies TP1 and TP2. Many
existing algorithms don't satisfy these properties and are indeed incorrect
i.e. convergence is not guaranteed. No algorithm enjoying both properties is
known for strings and little work has been done for XML trees in a pure P2P
framework (that doesn't use time-stamps for instance). We focus on editing
unranked unordered labeled trees, so-called XML-like trees that are considered
for instance in the Harmony pro ject. We show that no transformation satisfying
TP1 and TP2 can exist for a first set of operations but we show that TP1 and
TP2 hold for a richer set of operations. We show how to combine our approach
with any convergent editing process on strings (not necessarily based on
integration transformation) to get a convergent process.