When conducting Bayesian inference, delayed acceptance (DA)
Metropolis-Hastings (MH) algorithms and DA pseudo-marginal MH algorithms can be
applied when it is computationally expensive to calculate the true posterior or
an unbiased estimate thereof, but a computationally cheap approximation is
available. A first accept-reject stage is applied, with the cheap approximation
substituted for the true posterior in the MH acceptance ratio. Only for those
proposals which pass through the first stage is the computationally expensive
true posterior (or unbiased estimate thereof) evaluated, with a second
accept-reject stage ensuring that detailed balance is satisfied with respect to
the intended true posterior. In some scenarios there is no obvious
computationally cheap approximation. A weighted average of previous evaluations
of the computationally expensive posterior provides a generic approximation to
the posterior. If only the $k$-nearest neighbours have non-zero weights then
evaluation of the approximate posterior can be made computationally cheap
provided that the points at which the posterior has been evaluated are stored
in a multi-dimensional binary tree, known as a KD-tree. The contents of the
KD-tree are potentially updated after every computationally intensive
evaluation. The resulting adaptive, delayed-acceptance [pseudo-marginal]
Metropolis-Hastings algorithm is justified both theoretically and empirically.
Guidance on tuning parameters is provided and the methodology is applied to a
discretely observed Markov jump process characterising predator-prey
interactions and an ODE system describing the dynamics of an autoregulatory
gene network.