We present improved upper and lower bounds on the spanning ratio of
$\theta$-graphs with at least six cones. Given a set of points in the plane, a
$\theta$-graph partitions the plane around each vertex into $m$ disjoint cones,
each having aperture $\theta=2\pi/m$, and adds an edge to the `closest' vertex
in each cone. We show that for any integer $k \geq 1$, $\theta$-graphs with
$4k+2$ cones have a spanning ratio of $1+2\sin(\theta/2)$ and we provide a
matching lower bound, showing that this spanning ratio tight.
  Next, we show that for any integer $k \geq 1$, $\theta$-graphs with $4k+4$
cones have spanning ratio at most
$1+2\sin(\theta/2)/(\cos(\theta/2)-\sin(\theta/2))$. We also show that
$\theta$-graphs with $4k+3$ and $4k+5$ cones have spanning ratio at most
$\cos(\theta/4)/(\cos(\theta/2)-\sin(3\theta/4))$. This is a significant
improvement on all families of $\theta$-graphs for which exact bounds are not
known. For example, the spanning ratio of the $\theta$-graph with 7 cones is
decreased from at most 7.5625 to at most 3.5132. These spanning proofs also
imply improved upper bounds on the competitiveness of the $\theta$-routing
algorithm. In particular, we show that the $\theta$-routing algorithm is
$(1+2\sin(\theta/2)/(\cos(\theta/2)-\sin(\theta/2)))$-competitive on
$\theta$-graphs with $4k+4$ cones and that this ratio is tight.
  Finally, we present improved lower bounds on the spanning ratio of these
graphs. Using these bounds, we provide a partial order on these families of
$\theta$-graphs. In particular, we show that $\theta$-graphs with $4k+4$ cones
have spanning ratio at least $1+2\tan(\theta/2)+2\tan^2(\theta/2)$. This is
somewhat surprising since, for equal values of $k$, the spanning ratio of
$\theta$-graphs with $4k+4$ cones is greater than that of $\theta$-graphs with
$4k+2$ cones, showing that increasing the number of cones can make the spanning
ratio worse.