We revisit the issue of low-distortion embedding of metric spaces into the
line, and more generally, into the shortest path metric of trees, from the
parameterized complexity perspective.Let $M=M(G)$ be the shortest path metric
of an edge weighted graph $G=(V,E)$ on $n$ vertices. We describe algorithms for
the problem of finding a low distortion non-contracting embedding of $M$ into
line and tree metrics.
  We give an $O(nd^4(2d+1)^{2d})$ time algorithm that for an unweighted graph
metric $M$ and integer $d$ either constructs an embedding of $M$ into the line
with distortion at most $d$, or concludes that no such embedding exists. We
find the result surprising, because the considered problem bears a strong
resemblance to the notoriously hard Bandwidth Minimization problem which does
not admit any FPT algorithm unless an unlikely collapse of parameterized
complexity classes occurs.
  We show that our algorithm can also be applied to construct small distortion
embeddings of weighted graph metrics. The running time of our algorithm is
$O(n(dW)^4(2d+1)^{2dW})$ where $W$ is the largest edge weight of the input
graph. We also show that deciding whether a weighted graph metric $M(G)$ with
maximum weight $W < |V(G)|$ can be embedded into the line with distortion at
most $d$ is NP-Complete for every fixed rational $d \geq 2$. This rules out any
possibility of an algorithm with running time $O((nW)^{h(d)})$ where $h$ is a
function of $d$ alone.
  We generalize the result on embedding into the line by proving that for any
tree $T$ with maximum degree $\Delta$, embedding of $M$ into a shortest path
metric of $T$ is FPT, parameterized by $(\Delta,d)$.