Divergence time estimation requires the reconciliation of two major sources
of data. These are fossil and/or biogeographic evidence that give estimates of
the absolute age of nodes (ancestors) and molecular estimates that give us
estimates of the relative ages of nodes in a molecular evolutionary tree. Both
forms of data are often best characterized as yielding continuous probability
distributions on nodes. Here, the distributions modeling older fossil
calibrations within the tree of placental (eutherian) mammals are reconsidered.
In particular the Horse/Rhino, Human/Tarsier, Whale/ Hippo, Rabbit/Pika and
Rodentia calibrations are reexamined and adjusted. Inferring the relative ages
of nodes in a phylogeny also requires the assumption of a model of evolutionary
rate change across the tree. Here nine models of evolutionary rate change, are
combined with various continuous distributions modeling fossil calibrations.
Fit of model is measured both relative to a normalized fit, which assumes that
all models fit well in the absence of multiple fossil calibrations, and also by
the linearity of their residuals. The normalized fit used attempts to track
twice the log likelihood difference from the best expected model. The results
suggest there is a very large difference in the age of the root proposed by
calibrations in Supraprimates (informally Euarchontoglires) versus
Laurasiatheria. Combining both sets of calibrations results in the penalty
function vastly increasing in all cases. These issues remain irrespective of
the model used or whether the newer calibrations are used.