In decision problems, often, utilities and probabilities are hard to
determine. In such cases, one can resort to so-called choice functions. They
provide a means to determine which options in a particular set are optimal, and
allow incomparability among any number of options. Applying choice functions in
sequential decision problems can be highly non-trivial, as the usual properties
of maximising expected utility may no longer be satisfied. In this paper, we
study one of these properties: we revisit and reinterpret Selten's concept of
subgame perfectness in the context of decision trees, leading us to the concept
of subtree perfectness, which basically says that the optimal solution of a
decision tree should not depend on any larger tree it may be embedded in. In
other words, subtree perfectness excludes counterfactual reasoning, and
therefore may be desirable from some philosophical points of view. Subtree
perfectness is also desirable from a practical point of view, because it admits
efficient algorithms for solving decision trees, such as backward induction.
The main contribution of this paper is a very simple non-technical criterion
for determining whether any given choice function will satisfy subtree
perfectness or not. We demonstrate the theorem and illustrate subtree
perfectness, or the lack thereof, through numerous examples, for a wide variety
of choice functions, where incomparability amongst strategies can be caused by
imprecision in either probabilities or utilities. We find that almost no choice
function, except for maximising expected utility, satisfies it in general. We
also find that choice functions other than maximising expected utility can
satisfy it, provided that we restrict either the structure of the tree, or the
structure of the choice function.