Observations of the quiet solar corona in the 171A (~1MK) passband of the
Transition Region and Coronal Explorer (TRACE) often show disruptions of the
coronal part of small-scale ephemeral bipolar regions that resemble the
phenomena associated with coronal mass ejections on much larger scales:
ephemeral regions exhibit flare-like brightenings, rapidly rising filaments
carrying absorbing material at chromospheric temperatures, or the temporary
dimming of the surrounding corona. I analyze all available TRACE observing
sequences between 1998/04/01 and 2009/09/30 with full-resolution 171A image
sequences spanning a day or more within 500 arcsec of disk center, observing
essentially quiet Sun with good exposures and relatively low background. Ten
such data sets are identified between 2000 and 2008, spanning 570h of observing
with a total of 17133 exposures. Eighty small-scale coronal eruptions are
identified. Their size distribution forms a smooth extension of the
distribution of angular widths of coronal mass ejections, suggesting that the
eruption frequency for bipolar magnetic regions is essentially scale free over
at least two orders of magnitude, from eruptions near the arcsecond resolution
limit of TRACE to the largest coronal mass ejections observed in the inner
heliosphere. This scale range may be associated with the properties of the
nested set of ranges of connectivity in the magnetic field, in which
increasingly large and energetic events can reach higher and higher into the
corona until the heliosphere is reached.