Magellanic Clouds are of extreme importance to the study of the star
formation process in low metallicity environments. In this paper we report on
the discovery of pre-main sequence candidates and young embedded stellar
objects in N11 located in the Large Magellanic Cloud to cast light on the star
formation scenario. We would like to remind that this comparison is complicated
by the presence of a large age dispersion detected in the fields. Deep archive
HST/ACS photometry is used to derive color-magnitude diagrams of the
associations in N~11 and of the foreground field population. These data are
complemented by archive IR Spitzer data which allow the detection of young
embedded stellar objects. The spatial distribution of the pre-main sequence
candidates and young embedded stellar objects is compared with literature data
observed at different wavelengths, such as H$_{\alpha}$ and CO maps, and with
the distribution of OB and Herbig Ae/Be stars. The degree of clustering is
derived using the Minimal Spanning Tree method and the two point correlation
function to get insights about the formation process. A large population of
pre-main sequence candidates is found in N11. Their masses are in the range of
1.3-2 MSun for ages from 2 to 10 Myr. Young embedded stellar objects having
ages of 0.1-1 Myr are found to be intermixed with the candidate pre-main
sequence stars. The spatial distribution of the stars shows that this region is
the product of clustered star formation. No significant difference is found in
the clustering degree of young blue main sequence stars and faint pre-main
sequence candidates, suggesting that they might be part of the same formation
process. The data suggest that the star formation in the region is a
long-lasting process where stars from 0.1 to 10 Myr are widely distributed.