We propose polynomial-time algorithms that sparsify planar and bounded-genus
graphs while preserving optimal or near-optimal solutions to Steiner problems.
Our main contribution is a polynomial-time algorithm that, given an unweighted
graph $G$ embedded on a surface of genus $g$ and a designated face $f$ bounded
by a simple cycle of length $k$, uncovers a set $F \subseteq E(G)$ of size
polynomial in $g$ and $k$ that contains an optimal Steiner tree for any set of
terminals that is a subset of the vertices of $f$.
  We apply this general theorem to prove that: * given an unweighted graph $G$
embedded on a surface of genus $g$ and a terminal set $S \subseteq V(G)$, one
can in polynomial time find a set $F \subseteq E(G)$ that contains an optimal
Steiner tree $T$ for $S$ and that has size polynomial in $g$ and $|E(T)|$; * an
analogous result holds for an optimal Steiner forest for a set $S$ of terminal
pairs; * given an unweighted planar graph $G$ and a terminal set $S \subseteq
V(G)$, one can in polynomial time find a set $F \subseteq E(G)$ that contains
an optimal (edge) multiway cut $C$ separating $S$ and that has size polynomial
in $|C|$.
  In the language of parameterized complexity, these results imply the first
polynomial kernels for Steiner Tree and Steiner Forest on planar and
bounded-genus graphs (parameterized by the size of the tree and forest,
respectively) and for (Edge) Multiway Cut on planar graphs (parameterized by
the size of the cutset). Steiner Tree and similar "subset" problems were
identified in [Demaine, Hajiaghayi, Computer J., 2008] as important to the
quest to widen the reach of the theory of bidimensionality ([Demaine et al,
JACM 2005], [Fomin et al, SODA 2010]). Therefore, our results can be seen as a
leap forward to achieve this broader goal.
  Additionally, we obtain a weighted variant of our main contribution.