Star-formation within galaxies appears on multiple scales, from spiral
structure, to OB associations, to individual star clusters, and often
sub-structure within these clusters. This multitude of scales calls for
objective methods to find and classify star-forming regions, regardless of
spatial size. To this end, we present an analysis of star-forming groups in the
local group spiral galaxy M33, based on a new implementation of the Minimum
Spanning Tree (MST) method. Unlike previous studies which limited themselves to
a single spatial scale, we study star-forming structures from the effective
resolution limit (~20pc) to kpc scales. We find evidence for a continuum of
star-forming group sizes, from pc to kpc scales. We do not find a
characteristic scale for OB associations, unlike that found in previous
studies, and we suggest that the appearance of such a scale was caused by
spatial resolution and selection effects. The luminosity function of the groups
is found to be well represented by a power-law with an index, -2, similar to
that found for clusters and GMCs. Additionally, the groups follow a similar
mass-radius relation as GMCs. The size distribution of the groups is best
described by a log-normal distribution and we show that within a hierarchical
distribution, if a scale is selected to find structure, the resulting size
distribution will have a log-normal distribution. We find an abrupt drop of the
number of groups outside a galactic radius of ~4kpc, suggesting a change in the
structure of the star-forming ISM, possibly reflected in the lack of GMCs
beyond this radius. (abridged)