This paper studies the problem of detecting the information source in a
network in which the spread of information follows the popular
Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model. We assume all nodes in the network
are in the susceptible state initially except the information source which is
in the infected state. Susceptible nodes may then be infected by infected
nodes, and infected nodes may recover and will not be infected again after
recovery. Given a snapshot of the network, from which we know all infected
nodes but cannot distinguish susceptible nodes and recovered nodes, the problem
is to find the information source based on the snapshot and the network
topology. We develop a sample path based approach where the estimator of the
information source is chosen to be the root node associated with the sample
path that most likely leads to the observed snapshot. We prove for
infinite-trees, the estimator is a node that minimizes the maximum distance to
the infected nodes. A reverse-infection algorithm is proposed to find such an
estimator in general graphs. We prove that for $g$-regular trees such that
$gq>1,$ where $g$ is the node degree and $q$ is the infection probability, the
estimator is within a constant distance from the actual source with a high
probability, independent of the number of infected nodes and the time the
snapshot is taken. Our simulation results show that for tree networks, the
estimator produced by the reverse-infection algorithm is closer to the actual
source than the one identified by the closeness centrality heuristic. We then
further evaluate the performance of the reverse infection algorithm on several
real world networks.