A factorization of spacetime of the form M^3xM^3xM^3 is considered in this
paper as the closed string background in type IIA. The idea behind this
construction is that each M^3 might give rise to one large spatial dimension of
4-dimensional spacetime in the closed string sector. In the open string sector,
intersecting D6-branes can be constructed for the simple choice of an
orientifolded M^3=T^3 in a similar way as on the prominent T^6=T^2xT^2xT^2
using exact CFT. The D6-branes then are allowed to span general 2-cycles on
each T^3. The intersection 1-cycles between two stacks of branes on one T^3 can
be understood as one spatial dimension of the effective 4-dimensional
'spacetime' for the massless chiral fermions charged under these two stacks.
Additionally to the known solutions to the R-R tadpole equations conserving
(3+1)-dimensional Poincare invariance, this allows for solutions with globally
just (2+1)- or (1+1)-Poincare invariance. For non-supersymmetric solutions, a
string tree-level and one-loop potential for the scalar moduli (including the
spacetime radii) is generated in the NS-NS sector. This potential here is
interpreted dynamically for radii and dilaton in order to describe the global
evolution of the universe. In the late time picture, (3+1)-dimensional global
Poincare invariance can be restored well within experimental bounds. This
approach links particle properties (the massless chiral fermion spectrum)
directly to the global evolution of the universe by the scalar potential, both
depending on the same topological wrapping numbers. In the future, this might
lead to much better falsifiable phenomenological models.