Information, stored or transmitted in digital form, is often structured.
Individual data records are usually represented as hierarchies of their
elements. Together, records form larger structures. Information processing
applications have to take account of this structuring, which assigns different
semantics to different data elements or records. Big variety of structural
schemata in use today often requires much flexibility from applications--for
example, to process information coming from different sources. To ensure
application interoperability, translators are needed that can convert one
structure into another. This paper puts forward a formal data model aimed at
supporting hierarchical data processing in a simple and flexible way. The model
is based on and extends results of two classical theories, studying finite
string and tree automata. The concept of finite automata and regular languages
is applied to the case of arbitrarily structured tree-like hierarchical data
records, represented as "structured strings." These automata are compared with
classical string and tree automata; the model is shown to be a superset of the
classical models. Regular grammars and expressions over structured strings are
introduced. Regular expression matching and substitution has been widely used
for efficient unstructured text processing; the model described here brings the
power of this proven technique to applications that deal with information
trees. A simple generic alternative is offered to replace today's specialised
ad-hoc approaches. The model unifies structural and content transformations,
providing applications with a single data type. An example scenario of how to
build applications based on this theory is discussed. Further research
directions are outlined.