This paper introduces a novel indexing and access method, called Feature-
Based Adaptive Tolerance Tree (FATT), using wavelet transform is proposed to
organize large image data sets efficiently and to support popular image access
mechanisms like Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR).Conventional database
systems are designed for managing textual and numerical data and retrieving
such data is often based on simple comparisons of text or numerical values.
However, this method is no longer adequate for images, since the digital
presentation of images does not convey the reality of images. Retrieval of
images become difficult when the database is very large. This paper addresses
such problems and presents a novel indexing technique, Feature Based Adaptive
Tolerance Tree (FATT), which is designed to bring an effective solution
especially for indexing large databases. The proposed indexing scheme is then
used along with a query by image content, in order to achieve the ultimate goal
from the user point of view that is retrieval of all relevant images. FATT
indexing technique, features of the image is extracted using 2-dimensional
discrete wavelet transform (2DDWT) and index code is generated from the
determinant value of the features. Multiresolution analysis technique using
2D-DWT can decompose the image into components at different scales, so that the
coarest scale components carry the global approximation information while the
finer scale components contain the detailed information. Experimental results
show that the FATT outperforms M-tree upto 200%, Slim-tree up to 120% and HCT
upto 89%. FATT indexing technique is adopted to increase the efficiently of
data storage and retrieval.