Recently, Takeoka, Guha and Wilde have established a new (loose) upper bound
on the secret key capacity of a pure-loss bosonic channel that is several times
larger than an error-free BB84 QKD channel with same transmittance. This
suggests that new QKD protocols may exist with higher secret key rates and
effective ranges larger than the metro-area limits of BB84 QKD over optical
fiber. In this paper we illustrate such a possibility with a new protocol
called Amplified Quantum Key Distribution (AQKD), which will be compatible with
the optical amplification typically encountered on inter-city fiber spans. We
analyze one instantiation of AQKD, in which the transmitter enclave contains an
optical amplifier (OA), with security against passive optical tapping. For this
scenario AQKD is shown to: give three times the secret key rate of BB84 at
spans up to 100km, increasing to more than a ten-fold gain at 140km; and double
the maximum single-span optical fiber transmission range to inter-city
distances (300km). Essential to these performance gains is a new
information-theoretic protocol post-processing stage called generalized
advantage distillation (GAD). AQKD could be implemented with commercial
off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware as an augmentation of present-day BB84 QKD. AQKD
avoids the expense, complexity and resource duplication of "trusted relay"
approaches to QKD range extension. We expect AQKD to be compatible with fiber
spans containing intermediate OAs, which will facilitate its deployment as an
overlay on existing fiber networks.