Our magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) simulations and analytical calculations show
that, when a background flow is present, mathematical expressions for the
Alfv\'en wave (AW) damping via phase mixing are modified by a following
substitution $C_A^\prime(x) \to C_A^\prime(x)+V_0^\prime(x)$, where $C_A$ and
$V_0$ are AW phase and the flow speeds and prime denotes derivative in the
direction across the background magnetic field. In uniform magnetic field and
over-dense plasma structures, in which $C_A$ is smaller compared to surrounding
plasma, the flow, that is confined to the structure, in the same direction as
the AW, reduces the effect of phase mixing, because on the edges of the
structure $C_A^\prime$ and $V_0^\prime$ have opposite sign. Thus, the wave
damps via phase mixing {\it slower} compared to the case without the flow. This
is the consequence of the co-directional flow reducing the wave front
stretching in the transverse direction. Although, the result is generic and is
applicable to different laboratory or astrophysical plasma systems, we apply
our finding to address the question why over-dense solar coronal open magnetic
field structures (OMFS) are cooler than the background plasma. Observations
show that the over-dense OMFS (e.g. solar coronal polar plumes) are cooler than
surrounding plasma and that in these structures Doppler broadening of lines is
consistent with bulk plasma motions, such as Alfv\'en waves (AW). If over-dense
solar coronal OMFS are heated by AW damping via phase mixing, we conjecture
that, co-directional with AW, plasma flow in them, reduces the phase mixing
induced heating, thus providing an explanation why they appear cooler than the
background.