Optically thin and geometrically thick accretion flows are known to be
responsible for the observed radio/X-ray luminosity relation of the X-ray
bright galactic nuclei. It has also been suggested that supermassive black hole
masses can be estimated from measurements of the core radio luminosity and the
X-ray luminosity by using the advection-dominated accretion flow (ADAF) model.
In this study we increase the number of data available by compiling the
radio/X-ray fluxes and the mass in published literatures, and compare the
observed ratio of the luminosities with predictions from various models of
optically thin accretion flows. Semi-analytically derived relations of the
luminosities are presented in cases of the standard ADAF model and modified
ADAF models, in which a truncation of inner parts of the flows and winds
causing a reduction of the infalling matter are included. We show that the
observed relation can be used indeed to estimate the supermassive black hole
mass, provided that properties of such accretion flows are known. Having
investigated sensitivities of the method on modifications of the 'standard'
ADAF model, we find that a general trend of model predictions from the
'standard' ADAF, the truncated ADAF and the 'windy' ADAF are somewhat
indistinguishable. We also find, however, that the extreme case of the windy
model is inconsistent with currently available observational data, unless
microphysics parameters are to be substantially changed. High resolution radio
observations, however, are required to avoid the contamination of non-disk
components, such as, a jet component, which, otherwise, results in the
over-estimated SMBH mass.