We report radio interferometric observations of the 12C16O 1.3 mm J = 2-1
emission line in the circumstellar envelope of the M supergiant Alpha Ori and
have detected and separated both the S1 and S2 flow components for the first
time. Observations were made with the Combined Array for Research in
Millimeter-wave Astronomy (CARMA) interferometer in the C, D, and E antenna
configurations. We obtain good u-v coverage (5-280 klambda) by combining data
from all three configurations allowing us to trace spatial scales as small as
0.9\arcsec over a 32\arcsec field of view. The high spectral and spatial
resolution C configuration line profile shows that the inner S1 flow has
slightly asymmetric outflow velocities ranging from -9.0 km s-1 to +10.6 km s-1
with respect to the stellar rest frame. We find little evidence for the outer
S2 flow in this configuration because the majority of this emission has been
spatially-filtered (resolved out) by the array. We also report a SOFIA-GREAT
CO(J= 12-11) emission line profile which we associate with this inner higher
excitation S1 flow. The outer S2 flow appears in the D and E configuration maps
and its outflow velocity is found to be in good agreement with high resolution
optical spectroscopy of K I obtained at the McDonald Observatory. We image both
S1 and S2 in the multi-configuration maps and see a gradual change in the
angular size of the emission in the high absolute velocity maps. We assign an
outer radius of 4\arcsec to S1 and propose that S2 extends beyond CARMA's field
of view (32\arcsec at 1.3 mm) out to a radius of 17\arcsec which is larger than
recent single-dish observations have indicated. When azimuthally averaged, the
intensity fall-off for both flows is found to be proportional to R^{-1}, where
R is the projected radius, indicating optically thin winds with \rho \propto
R^{-2}.