Numerical simulations of hot accretion flow have shown that the mass
accretion rate decreases with decreasing radius; consequently the density
profile of accretion flow becomes flatter compared to the case of a constant
accretion rate. This result has important theoretical and observational
implications. However, because of technical difficulties, the radial dynamic
range in almost all previous simulations usually spans at most two orders of
magnitude. This small dynamical range, combined with the effects of boundary
conditions, makes the simulation results suspectable. Especially, the radial
profiles of density and accretion rate may not be precise enough to be used to
compare with observations. In this paper we present a "two-zone" approach to
expand the radial dynamical range from two to four orders of magnitude. We
confirm previous results and find that from $r_s$ to $ 10^4r_s$ the radial
profiles of accretion rate and density can be well described by
$\dot{M}(r)\propto r^s$ and $\rho\propto r^{-p}$. The values of (s, p) are
(0.48, 0.65) and (0.4, 0.85), for viscous parameter $\alpha=0.001$ and 0.01,
respectively. We have looked up numerical simulation works in the literature
and found that the values of $s$ and $p$ are all similar, no matter a magnetic
field is included or not and what kind of initial conditions are adopted. The
density profile we obtain is in good quantitative agreement with that obtained
from the detailed observations and modeling to Sgr A* and NGC 3115. The origin
of such a accretion rate profile will be investigated in a subsequent paper.