The paper presents a study of kinematic axisymmetric mean-field dynamo models
for a case of the meridional circulation with a deep-seated stagnation point
and a strong return flow at the bottom of the convection zone. This kind of
circulation follows from mean-field models of the angular momentum balance in
the solar convection zone. We show that it is possible for this types of
meridional circulation to construct kinematic dynamo models that resemble in
some aspects the sunspot magnetic activity cycle. The dynamo model includes
turbulent sources of the large-scale poloidal magnetic field production, due to
kinetic helicity and a combined effect due to Coriolis force and the
large-scale current. In these models the toroidal magnetic field, which is
responsible for the sunspot production, is concentrated at the bottom of the
convection zone, and is transported to low-latitude regions by the meridional
flow. The meridional component of the poloidal field is also concentrated at
the bottom of the convection zone while the radial component is concentrated in
near polar regions. There are some issues which, perhaps, are resulted from the
given meridional circulation pattern and the distribution of the magnetic
diffusivity inside convection zone. In particular, in the near-equatorial
regions the phase relations between the toroidal and poloidal components
disagree with observations. Also, we show that the period of the magnetic cycle
may not always monotonically decrease with the increase of the meridional flow
speed. Thus, for the further progress it is important to determine the
structure of the meridional circulation, which is one of the critical
properties, from helioseismology observations.