(shortened) We report the results of an investigation of particle
acceleration and electron-positron plasma generation at low altitude in the
polar magnetic flux tubes of Rotation Powered Pulsars, when the stellar surface
is free to emit whatever charges and currents are demanded by the force-free
magnetosphere. We observe novel behavior. a) When the current density is less
than the Goldreich-Julian (GJ) value (0<j/j_{GJ}<1), space charge limited
acceleration of the current carrying beam is mild, with the full GJ charge
density being comprised of the charge density of the beam, co-existing with a
cloud of electrically trapped particles with the same sign of charge as the
beam. The voltage drops are on the order of mc^2/e, and pair creation is
absent. b) When the current density exceeds the GJ value (j/j_{GJ}>1), the
system develops high voltage drops, causing emission of gamma rays and intense
bursts of pair creation. The bursts exhibit limit cycle behavior, with
characteristic time scales somewhat longer than the relativistic fly-by time
over distances comparable to the polar cap diameter (microseconds). c) In
return current regions, where j/j_{GJ}<0, the system develops similar bursts of
pair creation. In cases b) and c), the intermittently generated pairs allow the
system to simultaneously carry the magnetospherically prescribed currents and
adjust the charge density and average electric field to force-free conditions.
We also elucidate the conditions for pair creating beam flow to be steady,
finding that such steady flows can occupy only a small fraction of the current
density parameter space of the force-free magnetospheric model. The generic
polar flow dynamics and pair creation is strongly time dependent. The model has
an essential difference from almost all previous quantitative studies, in that
we sought the accelerating voltage as a function of the applied current.