We present an X-ray image deprojection analysis of Einstein Observatory
imaging data on 207, clusters of galaxies. The resulting radial profiles for
luminosity, temperature, and electron density variations are determined from
the cluster surface-brightness profiles according to gravitational potential
constraints from average Tx and Vopt observations. This enables us to determine
cooling-flow and other cluster properties, such as baryon fractions, S-Z
microwave decrements, and Thomson depths. We have compiled a catalogue of the
detected cooling flows, and investigated their effects on general cluster
properties. Self-consistent correlations between the cluster X-ray luminosity,
temperature, and optical velocity-dispersion, are determined accounting for
errors in both dimensions of the data. These fits indicate that the
temperatures of clusters are isothermal and that they have spectral beta-values
consistent with unity.
  We find that the X-ray Lx, Tx, and optical Vopt relations depend
significantly on the cooling flow mass-deposition rate, through differences in
the density profiles. Clusters of similar mass-deposition rate exhibit
self-similar density profiles, with larger cooling flows showing higher central
densities. This leads to scatter in the Lx related correlations within the Lx,
Tx and Vopt plane. The segregation in density leads to dispersion in
`half-light radii' and baryon fractions. The baryon fraction in the cores of
cooling flow clusters appears to be higher, but all clusters appear to rise to
a concordant value of greater than 10 percent at 1 Mpc. Thus, clusters are
inconsistent with primordial nucleosynthesis baryon fraction, for a flat
Universe, of 6 percent.