A experimental study of low Reynolds numbers unsteady pipe flows of a yield
stress shear thinning fluid (Carbopol- 980) is presented. The investigation of
the solid-fluid transition in a rheometric flow in the presence and in the ab-
sence of the wall slip reveals a coupling between the irreversible deformation
states and the wall slip phenomenon. Particularly, the presence of wall slip
nearly suppresses the scaling of the deformation power deficit associated to
the rheological hysteresis with the rate at which the material is forced. The
irreversible solid-fluid transition and the wall slip behaviour emerge in the
same range of the applied stresses and thus, the two phenomena appear to be
coupled to each other. In-situ measurements of the flow fields performed during
an increasing/decreasing stepped pressure ramp reveal three distinct flow
regimes: solid (pluglike), solid-fluid and fluid. The deformation power deficit
associated with the hysteresis observed during the increasing/decreasing
branches of the pressure ramps reveals a dependence on the rate at which the
unsteady flow is driven consistent with that observed during the rheological
measurements in the presence of slip. The dependence of the slip velocity on
the wall shear stresses reveals a Navier-type slip behaviour only within the
fluid flow regime, which indicates that the wall slip phenomenon is directly
coupled to the solid-fluid transition. A universal scaling of the slip velocity
with the wall velocity gradients is found and the slip length is independent on
the characteristic time of forcing t0. The paper closes with a discussion of
the main findings, their possible impact on our current understanding of the
yielding and slip behaviour of Carbopol gels. Several steps worth being pursued
by future experimental/theoretical studies are proposed.