In this work, we study the deformation behavior of thin films of various soft
glassy materials that are simultaneously subjected to two creep flow fields,
rotational shear flow by applying torque and elongational flow by applying
normal force. The generic behavior under the combined fields is investigated in
different soft glassy materials with diverse microstructure such as: hair gel,
emulsion paint, shaving foam and clay suspension. Increase in strength of one
stress component while keeping the other constant, not only leads to an
expected enhanced deformation in its own direction, but also greater strain in
the other direction. Herschel Bulkley model is observed to explain this
behavior qualitatively. Elongational flow induced in the materials eventually
causes failure in the same. Interestingly time to failure is observed to be
strongly dependent not just on normal force but also on the applied rotational
shear stress. We believe that the presence of a three dimensional jammed
structure, in which overall unjamming can be induced by applying stress having
sufficient magnitude irrespective of the direction leads to the observed
behavior. In addition, we observe self-similarity in the elongational as well
as rotational strain time curves corresponding to various combinations of both
the fields. This observation suggests a mere shift in the time-scales involved
keeping the path followed in the process unchanged. A phase diagram is also
constructed for various soft glassy materials by determining different
combinations of orthogonal stresses beyond which materials yield. Estimated
yield stress in the limit of flow dominated by applied tensile force on the top
plate demonstrates scatter, which might be originating from fingering
instability. Except this deviation, yielding is observed when the invariant of
stress tensor exceeds yield stress, validating the Von Mises criterion.