The importance of shocks in nova explosions has been highlighted by the
recent discovery of \gamma-ray producing novae by Fermi. We use over three
years of multi-band radio observations of nova V1723 Aql with the Karl G.
Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) to show that shocks between fast and slow flows
within the ejecta led to the acceleration of particles and the production of
synchrotron radiation. Approximately one month after the start of V1723 Aql's
eruption in 2010 September, shocks in the ejecta produced an unexpected radio
flare, ultimately resulting in a radio light curve with a multi-peaked
structure. More than a year after the start of the eruption, the radio emission
became consistent with emanating from an expanding thermal remnant with a mass
of $2\times10^{-4}$ M$_\odot$ and a temperature of $10^4$ K. However, the
brightness temperature of greater than $10^6$ K at low frequencies during the
first two months was too high to be due to thermal emission from the small
amount of X-ray producing shock-heated gas. Radio images of the ejecta show
dense structures with velocities of roughly 400 km/s (d/6 kpc) in the plane of
the sky, perpendicular to a more elongated flow moving at 1500 km/s in the
plane of the sky. The morpho-kinematic structure of the ejecta from V1723 Aql
therefore appears to be similar to that of classical nova V959 Mon, in which
collisions between a slow, dense torus and a faster flow both collimated the
fast flow and gave rise to \gamma-ray producing shocks. Published optical
spectroscopy and X-ray observations of V1723 Aql from the time of the radio
flare are consistent with this picture. Our radio observations support the idea
that shocks in novae occur when a fast flow collides with a dense, slow,
collimating torus. Such shocks could be responsible for hard X-ray emission,
\gamma-ray production, and double-peaked radio light curves from some classical
novae.