Context. The presence of the moat flow around sunspots is intimately linked
to the mere existence of sunspots. Aims. We characterize the moat flow (MF) and
Evershed flow (EF) in sunspots to enhance our knowledge of sunspot structures
and photospheric flow properties. Methods. We calibrated HMI synoptic Doppler
maps and used them to analyze 3h time averages of 31 circular, stable, and
fully developed sunspots at heliocentric angles of some 50$^{\circ}$. Assuming
axially symmetrical flow fields, we infer the azimuthally averaged horizontal
velocity component of the MF and EF from 51 velocity maps. We studied the MF
properties (velocity and extension) and elaborate on how these components
depend on sunspot parameters (sunspot size and EF velocity). To explore the
weekly and monthly evolution of MFs, we compare spots rotating from the eastern
to western limbs and spots that reappear on the eastern limb. Results. Our
calibration procedure of HMI Doppler maps yields reliable and consistent
results. In 3h averages, we find the MF decreases on average from some 1000
$\pm$ 200m/s just outside the spot boundary to 500m/s after an additional 4 Mm.
The average MF extension lies at 9.2 $\pm$ 5 Mm, where the velocity drops below
some 180m/s. Neither the MF velocity nor its extension depend significantly on
the sunspot size or EF velocity. But, the EF velocity does show a tendency to
be enhanced with sunspot size. On a time scale of a week and a month, we find
decreasing MF extensions and a tendency for the MF velocity to increase for
strongly decaying sunspots, whereas the changing EF velocity has no impact on
the MF. Conclusions. On 3h averages, the EF velocity scales with the size of
sunspots, while the MF properties show no significant correlation with the EF
or with the sunspot size. This we interpret as a hint that the physical origins
of EF and MF are distinct.