In Directed Multiway Cut(Dir-MC) the input is an edge-weighted directed graph
$G=(V,E)$ and a set of $k$ terminal nodes $\{s_1,s_2,\ldots,s_k\} \subseteq V$;
the goal is to find a min-weight subset of edges whose removal ensures that
there is no path from $s_i$ to $s_j$ for any $i \neq j$. In Node-weighted
Multiway Cut(Node-MC) the input is a node-weighted undirected graph $G$ and a
set of $k$ terminal nodes $\{s_1,s_2,\ldots,s_k\} \subseteq V$; the goal is to
remove a min-weight subset of nodes to disconnect each pair of terminals.
Dir-MC admits a $2$-approximation [Naor, Zosin '97] and Node-MC admits a
$2(1-\frac{1}{k})$-approximation [Garg, Vazirani, Yannakakis '94], both via
rounding of LP relaxations. Previous rounding algorithms for these problems,
from nearly twenty years ago, are based on careful rounding of an "optimum"
solution to an LP relaxation. This is particularly true for Dir-MC for which
the rounding relies on a custom LP formulation instead of the natural distance
based LP relaxation [Naor, Zosin '97].
  In this paper we describe extremely simple and near linear-time rounding
algorithms for Dir-MC and Node-MC via a natural distance based LP relaxation.
The dual of this relaxation is a special case of the maximum multicommodity
flow problem. Our algorithms achieve the same bounds as before but have the
significant advantage in that they can work with "any feasible" solution to the
relaxation. Consequently, in addition to obtaining "book" proofs of LP rounding
for these two basic problems, we also obtain significantly faster approximation
algorithms by taking advantage of known algorithms for computing near-optimal
solutions for maximum multicommodity flow problems. We also investigate lower
bounds for Dir-MC when $k=2$ and in particular prove that the integrality gap
of the LP relaxation is $2$ even in directed planar graphs.