The general picture that emerged by the end of 1990s from a large set of
optical and X-ray, spectral and timing data was that the X-rays are produced in
the innermost hot part of the accretion flow, while the optical/infrared (OIR)
emission is mainly produced by the irradiated outer thin accretion disc. Recent
multiwavelength observations of Galactic black hole transients show that the
situation is not so simple. Fast variability in the OIR band, OIR excesses
above the thermal emission and a complicated interplay between the X-ray and
the OIR light curves imply that the OIR emitting region is much more compact.
One of the popular hypotheses is that the jet contributes to the OIR emission
and even is responsible for the bulk of the X-rays. However, this scenario is
largely ad hoc and is in contradiction with many previously established facts.
Alternatively, the hot accretion flow, known to be consistent with the X-ray
spectral and timing data, is also a viable candidate to produce the OIR
radiation. The hot-flow scenario naturally explains the power-law like OIR
spectra, fast OIR variability and its complex relation to the X-rays if the hot
flow contains non-thermal electrons (even in energetically negligible
quantities), which are required by the presence of the MeV tail in Cyg X-1. The
presence of non-thermal electrons also lowers the equilibrium electron
temperature in the hot flow model to <100 keV, making it more consistent with
observations. Here we argue that any viable model should simultaneously explain
a large set of spectral and timing data and show that the hybrid
(thermal/non-thermal) hot flow model satisfies most of the constraints.