The characteristic features of traffic breakdown near on-ramp are analyzed.
To describe this phenomenon the probabilistic description regarding the jam
emergence as the formation of a large car cluster on highway inside the
synchronized traffic is constructed. In these terms the breakdown occurs
through the formation of a certain critical nucleus in the metastable vehicle
flow, which is located near the on-ramp. The strong cooperative car interaction
in the synchronized traffic enables us to treat the size of critical jam nuclei
as a large value and to apply to an effective one-lane model. This model
assumes the following. First, the growth of a car cluster is governed by the
attachment of cars to the cluster whose rate is mainly specified by the total
traffic flow. Second, the cluster dissolution is determined by the car escape
from the cluster whose rate depends on the cluster size directly. Third, the
generation of one-car clusters (preclusters) is caused by cars entering the
main road from the on-ramp. The appropriate master equation for the car cluster
evolution is written and the generation rate of critical jam nuclei is found.
The obtained results are in agreement with the empirical facts that the
characteristic time scale of the breakdown phenomenon is about or greater than
one minute and the traffic flow rate interval inside which traffic breakdowns
are observed is sufficiently wide. Besides, as a new results, it is shown that
the traffic breakdown probability can be analyzed, at least approximately,
based solely on the data of the total vehicle flow without separating it into
the vehicle streams on the main road and on-ramp when the relative on-ramp flow
volume exceeds 10%--20%.