We consider a magnetic configuration consisting of an arcade structure and a
detached plasmoid, resulting from a magnetic reconnection process, as is
typically found in connection with solar flares. We study spontaneous current
fragmentation caused by shear and vortex plasma flows. An exact analytical
transformation method was applied to calculate self-consistent solutions of the
nonlinear stationary MHD equations. The assumption of incompressible
field-aligned flows implies that both the Alfven Mach number and the mass
density are constant on field lines. We first calculated nonlinear MHS
equilibria with the help of the Liouville method, emulating the scenario of a
solar eruptive flare configuration with plasmoids and flare arcade. Then a Mach
number profile was constructed that describes the upflow along the open
magnetic field lines and implements a vortex flow inside the plasmoid. This
Mach number profile was used to map the MHS equilibrium to the stationary one.
We find that current fragmentation takes place at different locations within
our configuration. Steep gradients of the Alfven Mach number are required,
implying the strong influence of shear flows on current amplification and
filamentation of the MHS current sheets. Crescent- or ring-like structures
appear along the outer separatrix, butterfly structures between the upper and
lower plasmoids, and strong current peaks close the lower boundary. Impressing
an intrinsic small-scale structure on the upper plasmoid results in strong
fragmentation of the plasmoid. Hence fragmentation of current sheets and
plasmoids is an inherent property of MHD theory. Transformations from MHS into
MHD steady-states deliver fine-structures needed for plasma heating and
acceleration of particles and bulk plasma flows in dissipative events that are
typically connected to magnetic reconnection processes in flares and coronal
mass ejections.