Over the last two decades, both experiments and simulations have demonstrated
that transverse wall oscillations with properly selected amplitude and
frequency can reduce turbulent drag by as much as 40%. In this paper, we
develop a model-based approach for designing oscillations that suppress
turbulence in a channel flow. We utilize eddy-viscosity-enhanced linearization
of the turbulent flow with control in conjunction with turbulence modeling to
determine skin-friction drag in a simulation-free manner. The Boussinesq eddy
viscosity hypothesis is used to quantify the effect of fluctuations on the mean
velocity in the flow subject to control. In contrast to the traditional
approach that relies on numerical simulations, we determine the turbulent
viscosity from the second order statistics of the linearized model driven by
white-in-time stochastic forcing. The spatial power spectrum of the forcing is
selected to ensure that the linearized model for the uncontrolled flow
reproduces the turbulent energy spectrum. The resulting correction to the
turbulent mean velocity induced by small amplitude wall movements is then used
to identify the optimal frequency of drag reducing oscillations. In addition,
the control net efficiency and the turbulent flow structures that we obtain
agree well with the results of numerical simulations and experiments. This
demonstrates the predictive power of our model-based approach to controlling
turbulent flows and is expected to pave the way for successful flow control at
higher Reynolds numbers than currently possible.