We examine a broad range of mass flow diagnostics in a large sample of Herbig
Ae/Be stars (HAEBES) using high resolution optical spectra. The H-beta and He I
5876 angstrom lines show the highest incidence of P-Cygni (30%) and inverse
P-Cygni (14%) morphologies, respectively. The Fe II 4924 angstrom line also
shows a large incidence of P-Cygni profiles (11%). We find support for many of
the conclusions reached in a study based on the analysis of the He I 10830
angstrom line in a large sample of HAEBES. Namely, HAEBES exhibit smaller
fractions of both blue-shifted absorption (i.e. mass outflow) and red-shifted
absorption (i.e. mass infall or accretion) than their lower mass cousins, the
classical T Tauri stars (CTTSs). In particular, the optical data supports the
conclusion that HAEBES displaying red-shifted absorption, in general, show
maximum red-shifted absorption velocities that are smaller fractions of their
stellar escape velocities than is found for CTTSs. This suggests that HAEBE
accretion flows are originating deeper in the gravitational potentials of their
stars than in CTTS systems. In addition, we find a lack of inner disk wind
signatures in the blue-shifted absorption objects; only stellar wind signatures
are clearly observed. These findings, along with the lack of detected magnetic
fields around HAEBES, support the idea that large magnetospheres are not
prevalent around HAEBES and that accretion flows are instead mediated by
significantly smaller magnetospheres with relatively smaller truncation radii
(e.g. 1-2 stellar radii). Red-shifted absorption is much more common around
Herbig Ae stars than Be stars, suggesting that Herbig Be stars may accrete via
a boundary layer rather than along magnetic field lines.