The grid-to-rod fretting (GTRF) problem in pressurized water reactors is a
flow-induced vibration problem that results in wear and failure of the fuel
rods in nuclear assemblies. In order to understand the fluid dynamics of GTRF
and to build an archival database of turbulence statistics for various
configurations, implicit large-eddy simulations of time-dependent single-phase
turbulent flow have been performed in 3x3 and 5x5 rod bundles with a single
grid spacer. To assess the computational mesh and resolution requirements, a
method for quantitative assessment of unstructured meshes with no-slip walls is
described. The calculations have been carried out using Hydra-TH, a
thermal-hydraulics code developed at Los Alamos for the Consortium for Advanced
Simulation of Light water reactors, a United States Department of Energy
Innovation Hub. Hydra-TH uses a second-order implicit incremental projection
method to solve the single-phase incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. The
simulations explicitly resolve the large scale motions of the turbulent flow
field using first principles and rely on a monotonicity-preserving numerical
technique to represent the unresolved scales. Each series of simulations for
the 3x3 and 5x5 rod-bundle geometries is an analysis of the flow field
statistics combined with a mesh-refinement study and validation with available
experimental data. Our primary focus is the time history and statistics of the
forces loading the fuel rods. These hydrodynamic forces are believed to be the
key player resulting in rod vibration and GTRF wear, one of the leading causes
for leaking nuclear fuel which costs power utilities millions of dollars in
preventive measures. We demonstrate that implicit large-eddy simulation of
rod-bundle flows is a viable way to calculate the excitation forces for the
GTRF problem.