We apply a likelihood analysis to the data of \markcite{Lauer \& Postman
1994} With $P(k)$ parametrized by $(\sigma_8, \Gamma)$, the likelihood function
peaks at $\sigma_8\simeq0.3$, $\Gamma\lesssim0.025$, indicating at face value
very strong large-scale power, though at a level incompatible with COBE\@.
There is, however, a ridge of likelihood such that more conventional power
spectra do not seem strongly disfavored. The likelihood calculated using as
data only the components of the bulk flow solution peaks at higher $\sigma_8$,
in agreement with other analyses, but is rather broad. The likelihood
incorporating both bulk flow and shear gives a different picture. The
components of the shear are all low, and this pulls the peak to lower
amplitudes as a compromise.
  The Lauer \& Postman velocity data alone are therefore {\em consistent}\/
with models with very strong large scale power which generates a large bulk
flow, but the small shear (which also probes fairly large scales) requires that
the power would have to be at {\em very}\/ large scales, which is strongly
disfavored by COBE\@. The velocity data also seem compatible with more
conventional $P(k)$ with $0.2\lesssim\Gamma\lesssim0.5$, and the likelihood is
peaked around $\sigma_8\sim1$, in which case the bulk flow is a moderate, but
not extreme, statistical fluctuation.
  Applying the same techniques to the data of \markcite{Riess, Press, \&
Kirshner 1995}, the results are quite different. The flow is not inconsistent
with the microwave dipole and we derive only an upper limit to the amplitude of
the power spectrum: $\sigma_8\lesssim1.5$ at roughly 99\%.