The equations governing atmospheric flows are nonlinear, and consequently the
hierarchy of cumulant equations is not closed. But because atmospheric flows
are inhomogeneous and anisotropic, the nonlinearity may manifests itself only
weakly through interactions of mean fields with disturbances such as thermals
or eddies. In such situations, truncations of the hierarchy of cumulant
equations hold promise as a closure strategy.
  We review how truncations at second order can be used to model and elucidate
the dynamics of turbulent atmospheric flows. Two examples are considered.
First, we study the growth of a dry convective boundary layer, which is heated
from below, leading to turbulent upward energy transport and growth of the
boundary layer. We demonstrate that a quasilinear truncation of the equations
of motion, in which interactions of disturbances among each other are neglected
but interactions with mean fields are taken into account, can successfully
capture the growth of the convective boundary layer. Second, we study the
evolution of two-dimensional large-scale waves, which are representative of
waves seen in Earth's upper atmosphere. We demonstrate that a cumulant
expansion truncated at second order (CE2) can capture the evolution of such
waves and their nonlinear interaction with the mean flow in some circumstances,
for example, when the wave amplitude is small enough or the planetary rotation
rate is large enough. However, CE2 fails to capture the flow evolution when
nonlinear eddy--eddy interactions in surf zones around critical layers become
important. Higher-order closures can capture these missing interactions.
  The results point to new ways in which the dynamics of turbulent boundary
layers may be represented in climate models, and they illustrate different
classes of nonlinear processes that can control wave dissipation and momentum
fluxes in the troposphere.