Recent results on cluster cooling flows are reviewed. Observations of excess
soft X-ray provides the only direct evidence for a major repository for the
cooled gas. Unfortunately, the frequency of occurrence of large excess columns
is uncertain. There is also great uncertainty about the physical state of the
material producing the absorption. Radio observations have ruled out most forms
of cold gas. Recent radio observations show that the plasma in cooling flows is
strong magnetized. Models for cooling flows including the dynamical effects of
the magnetic field are needed. We also need to understand what ultimately
happens to the advected magnetic flux. At present, it appears most likely that
the field is by field line reconnection. The radio sources associated with the
central galaxies in cluster cooling flows seem to come in two varieties. There
are ``lobe-dominated sources'' with strong radio jets and well-defined radio
lobes, and ``amorphous'' sources without strong jets or lobes. In the
lobe-dominated sources, the radio pressures agree approximately with the
pressures of the X-ray emitting thermal gas, the X-ray and radio images
anticorrelate, and the radio sources are highly polarized and have very large
Faraday rotations. In the amorphous sources, the radio pressures are much
smaller than the X-ray pressures, the X-ray and radio images correlate, and the
radio sources are strongly depolarized. These results suggest that the lobes in
the lobe-dominated sources have displaced the X-ray emitting gas, while in the
amorphous sources, the radio and thermal plasma are mixed.