The viscosity of the QGP is a presently hotly debated subject. Since its
computation from first principles is difficult, it is desirable to try to
extract it from experimental data. Viscous hydrodynamics provides a tool that
can attack this problem and which may work in regions where ideal hydrodynamics
begins to fail.
  This thesis focuses on viscous hydrodynamics for relativistic heavy ion
collisions. We first review the 2nd order viscous equations obtained from
different approaches, and then report on the work of the Ohio State University
group on setting up the equations for causal viscous hydrodynamics in 2+1
dimensions and solving them numerically for central and noncentral Cu+Cu and
Au+Au collisions at RHIC energies and above. We discuss shear and bulk viscous
effects on the hydrodynamic evolution of entropy density, temperature,
collective flow, and flow anisotropies, and on the hadron multiplicity, single
particle spectra and elliptic flow. Viscous entropy production and its
influence on the centrality dependence of hadron multiplicities and the
multiplicity scaling of eccentricity-scaled elliptic flow are studied in
viscous hydrodynamics and compared with experimental data. The dynamical
effects of using different versions of the Israel-Stewart second order
formalism for causal viscous fluid dynamics are discussed, resolving some of
the apparent discrepancies between early results reported by different groups.
Finally, we assess the present status of constraining the shear viscosity to
entropy ratio of the hot and dense matter created at RHIC.