We prove that for the two-dimensional steady complete compressible Euler
system, with given uniform upcoming supersonic flows, the following three
fundamental flow patterns (special solutions) in gas dynamics involving
transonic shocks are all unique in the class of piecewise $C^1$ smooth
functions, under appropriate conditions on the downstream subsonic flows:
$(\rmnum{1})$ the normal transonic shocks in a straight duct with finite or
infinite length, after fixing a point the shock-front passing through;
$(\rmnum{2})$ the oblique transonic shocks attached to an infinite wedge;
$(\rmnum{3})$ a flat Mach configuration containing one supersonic shock, two
transonic shocks, and a contact discontinuity, after fixing the point the four
discontinuities intersect. These special solutions are constructed
traditionally under the assumption that they are piecewise constant, and they
have played important roles in the studies of mathematical gas dynamics. Our
results show that the assumption of piecewise constant can be replaced by some
more weaker assumptions on the downstream subsonic flows, which are sufficient
to uniquely determine these special solutions.
  Mathematically, these are uniqueness results on solutions of free boundary
problems of a quasi-linear system of elliptic-hyperbolic composite-mixed type
in bounded or unbounded planar domains, without any assumptions on smallness.
The proof relies on an elliptic system of pressure $p$ and the tangent of the
flow angle $w=v/u$ obtained by decomposition of the Euler system in Lagrangian
coordinates, and a newly developed method for the $L^{\infty}$ estimate that is
independent of the free boundaries, by combining the maximum principles of
elliptic equations, and careful analysis of shock polar applied on the (maybe
curved) shock-fronts.