We aim at deriving the main physical properties of massive jets from near-IR
observations, comparing them to those of a large sample of jets from low-mass
YSOs, and relating them to the main features of their driving sources. We
present a NIR imaging (H2 and Ks) and low-resolution spectroscopic (0.95-2.50
um) survey of 18 massive jets towards GLIMPSE extended green objects, driven by
intermediate- and high-mass YSOs, which have Lbol between 4x10^2 and 10^5 Lsun.
As in low-mass jets, H2 is the primary NIR coolant, detected in all the
analysed flows, whereas the most important ionic tracer is [FeII], detected in
half of the sampled jets. Our analysis indicates that the emission lines
originate from shocks at high temperatures and densities. No fluorescent
emission is detected along the flows, regardless of the source Lbol. On
average, the physical parameters of these massive jets (i.e. Av, temperature,
column density, mass, and luminosity) have higher values than those measured in
their low-mass counterparts. The morphology of the H2 flows is varied, mostly
depending on the complex, dynamic, and inhomogeneous environment in which these
massive jets form and propagate. All flows and jets in our sample are
collimated, showing large precession angles. Additionally, the presence of both
knots and jets suggests that the ejection process is continuous with burst
episodes, as in low-mass YSOs. We compare the flow H2 luminosity with the
source Lbol confirming the tight correlation between these two quantities. Five
sources, however, display a lower L(H2)/Lbol efficiency, which might be related
to YSO evolution. Most important, the inferred L(H2) vs Lbol relationship
agrees well with the correlation between the momentum flux of the CO outflows
and the bolometric luminosities of high-mass YSOs indicating that outflows from
high-mass YSOs are momentum driven, as are their low-mass counterparts.