We consider height-integrated equations of an advection-dominated accretion
flow (ADAF), assuming that there is no mass outflow. We include convection
through a mixing length formalism. We seek self-similar solutions in which the
rotational velocity and sound speed scale as R^{-1/2}, where R is the radius,
and consider two limiting prescriptions for the transport of angular momentum
by convection. In one limit, the transport occurs down the angular velocity
gradient, so convection moves angular momentum outward. In the other, the
transport is down the specific angular momentum gradient, so convection moves
angular momentum inward. We also consider general prescriptions which lie in
between the two limits.
  When convection moves angular momentum outward, we recover the usual
self-similar solution for ADAFs in which the mass density scales as rho ~
R^{-3/2}. When convection moves angular momentum inward, the result depends on
the viscosity coefficient alpha. If alpha>alpha_{crit1} ~ 0.05, we once again
find the standard ADAF solution. For alpha<alpha_{crit}, however, we find a
non-accreting solution in which rho ~ R^{-1/2}. We refer to this as a
"convective envelope" solution or a "convection-dominated accretion flow".
  Two-dimensional numerical simulations of ADAFs with values of alpha<0.03 have
been reported by several contributors. The simulated ADAFs exhibit convection. By
virtue of their axisymmetry, convection in these simulations moves angular
momentum inward, as we confirm by computing the Reynolds stress. The
simulations give rho ~ R^{-1/2}, in good agreement with the convective envelope
solution. The R^{-1/2} density profile is not a consequence of mass outflow.