We present an analysis of Chandra observations of the central regions of the
cooling flow cluster Abell 2029. We find a number of X-ray filaments in the
central 40 kpc, some of which appear to be associated with the currently active
central radio galaxy. The outer southern lobe of the steep-spectrum radio
source appears to be surrounded by a region of cool gas and is at least
partially surrounded by a bright X-ray rim similar to that seen around radio
sources in the cores of other cooling flow clusters. Spectroscopic fits show
that the overall cluster emission is best fitted by either a two temperature
gas (kT_high=7.47 keV, kT_low=0.11 keV), or a cooling flow model with gas
cooling over the same temperature range. This large range of temperatures (over
a factor of 50) is relatively unique to Abell 2029 and may suggest that this
system is a very young cooling flow where the gas has only recently started
cooling to low temperatures. The cooling flow model gives a mass deposition
rate of Mdot=56 +16/-21 Msun/yr. In general, the cluster emission is elongated
along a position angle of 22 degrees with an ellipticity of 0.26. The
distribution of the X-ray emission in the central region of the cluster is
asymmetric, however, with excess emission to the north-east and south-east
compared to the south-west and north-west, respectively. Fitting and
subtracting a smooth elliptical model from the X-ray data reveals a dipolar
spiral excess extending in a clockwise direction from the cluster core to radii
of ~150 kpc. We estimate a total mass of M_spiral ~6 x 10^12 Msun in the spiral
excess. The most likely origins of the excess are either stripping of gas from
a galaxy group or bare dark matter potential which has fallen into the cluster,
or sloshing motions in the cluster core induced by a past merger.