We present high resolution X-ray spectra of 14 putative cooling-flow clusters
of galaxies obtained with the Reflection Grating Spectrometer on XMM-Newton.
The clusters in the sample span a large range of temperatures and mass
deposition rates. Various of these spectra exhibit line emission from O VIII,
Ne X, Mg XII & XI, Al XIII & XII, Si XIV & XIII, N VII, and C VI as well as all
Fe L ions. The spectra exhibit strong emission from cool plasma at just below
the ambient temperature, $T_0$, down to $T_0/2$, but also exhibit a severe
deficit of emission, relative to the predictions of the isobaric cooling-flow
model at lower temperatures ($<$ $T_0/3$). In addition, the best-resolved
spectra show emission throughout the entire X-ray temperature range, but
increasingly less emission at lower temperatures than the cooling-flow model
would predict. These results are difficult to reconcile with simple
prescriptions for distorting the emission measure distribution, e.g. by
including additional heating or rapid cooling terms. We enumerate some
theoretical difficulties in understanding the soft X-ray spectra of
cooling-flows independent of the classic problem of the failure to detect the
cooling-flow sink. Empirically, the differential luminosity distribution is
consistent with being proportional to the temperature to the power of $\approx$
1 to 2, instead of being independent of the temperature, as expected in the
standard multi-phase model. The primary differences in the observed low
temperature spectra are ascribed to differences in the ambient temperature.