We present the method for computation of fluid flows that are characterized
by the large degree of expansion/contraction and in which the fluid velocity is
dominated by the bulk component associated with the expansion/contraction
and/or rotation of the flow. We consider the formulation of Euler equations of
fluid dynamics in a homologously expanding/contracting and/or rotating
reference frame. The frame motion is adjusted to minimize local fluid
velocities. Such approach allows to accommodate very efficiently large degrees
of change in the flow extent. Moreover, by excluding the contribution of the
bulk flow to the total energy the method eliminates the high Mach number
problem in the flows of interest. An important practical advantage of the
method is that it can be easily implemented with virtually any implicit or
explicit Eulerian hydrodynamic scheme and adaptive mesh refinement (AMR)
strategy.
  We also consider in detail equation invariance and existence of conservative
formulation of equations for special classes of expanding/contracting reference
frames. Special emphasis is placed on extensive numerical testing of the method
for a variety of reference frame motions, which are representative of the
realistic applications of the method. We study accuracy, conservativity, and
convergence properties of the method both in problems which are not its optimal
applications as well as in systems in which the use of this method is maximally
beneficial. Such detailed investigation of the numerical solution behavior is
used to define the requirements that need to be considered in devising
problem-specific fluid motion feedback mechanisms.