Breaching of earthen or sandy dams/dunes by overtopping flow and waves is a
complicated process with strong, unsteady flow, high sediment transport, and
rapid bed changes in which the interactions between flow and morphology should
not be ignored. This study presents a depth-averaged two-dimensional (2D)
coupled flow and sediment transport model to investigate the flow and breaching
processes with and without waves. Bed change and variable flow density are
included in the flow continuity and momentum equations to consider the impacts
of sediment transport. The model adopts the non-equilibrium approach for
total-load sediment transport and specifies different repose angles to handle
non-cohesive embankment slope avalanching. The equations are solved using an
explicit finite volume method on a rectangular grid with the improved
Godunov-type central upwind scheme and the nonnegative reconstruction of the
water depth method to handle mixed-regime flows near the breach. The model has
been tested against two sets of experimental data which show that it well
simulates the flow characteristics, bed changes, and sediment transport. It is
then applied to analyze flow and morphologic changes by overtopping flow with
and without waves. The simulated bed change and breach cross-section shape show
a significant difference if waves are considered. Erosion by flow without waves
mainly occurs at the breach and is dominated by vertical erosion at the initial
stage followed by the lateral erosion. With waves, the flow overtops the entire
length of the dune to cause faster erosion along the entire length. Erosion
mainly takes place at the upper layer at the initial stage and gradually
accelerates as the height of the dune reduces and flow discharge increases,
which indicates the simulated results with waves shall be further verified by
physical experimental evidence.