First-principles numerical simulations are used to describe a transport
bifurcation in a differentially rotating tokamak plasma. Such a bifurcation is
more probable in a region of zero magnetic shear than one of finite magnetic
shear because in the former case the component of the sheared toroidal flow
that is perpendicular to the magnetic field has the strongest suppressing
effect on the turbulence. In the zero-magnetic-shear regime, there are no
growing linear eigenmodes at any finite value of flow shear. However,
subcritical turbulence can be sustained, owing to the transient growth of modes
driven by the ion temperature gradient (ITG) and the parallel velocity gradient
(PVG). Nonetheless, in a parameter space containing a wide range of temperature
gradients and velocity shears, there is a sizeable window where all turbulence
is suppressed. Combined with the relatively low transport of momentum by
collisional (neoclassical) mechanisms, this produces the conditions for a
bifurcation from low to high temperature and velocity gradients. The path of
this bifurcation is mapped out using interpolation from a large number of
simulations. Numerical simulations are also used to construct a parametric
model which accurately describes the combined effect of the temperature
gradient and the flow gradient over a wide range of their values. Using this
parametric model, it is shown that in this reduced-transport state, heat is
transported almost neoclassically, while momentum transport is dominated by
subcritical PVG turbulence. It is further shown that for any given input of
torque, there is an optimum input of heat which maximises the temperature
gradient. The parametric model describes both the behaviour of the subcritical
turbulence and the complicated effect of the flow shear on the transport
stiffness. It may prove useful for transport modelling of tokamaks with sheared
flows.