In order to infer the effects of rotation on the revival of a stalled shock
in supernova explosions, we investigated steady accretion flows with a standing
shock. We first obtained a series of solutions for equations describing
non-rotating spherically symmetric flows and confirmed the results of preceding
papers that, for a given mass accretion rate, there is a critical luminosity of
irradiating neutrinos, above which there exists no steady solution. Below the
critical value, we found two branches of solutions; one is stable and the other
is unstable against radial perturbations. With a simple argument based on the
Riemann problem, we can identify the critical luminosity as the one, at which
the stalled shock revives. We also obtained the condition satisfied by the flow
velocity for the critical luminosity, which can be easily applied to the
rotational case. If a collapsing star rotates, the accretion flow is
non-spherical due to centrifugal forces. Flows are accelerated near the
rotation axis whereas they are decelerated near the equatorial plane. As a
result, the critical luminosity is lowered, that is, rotation assists the
revival of a stalled shock. According to our calculations, the critical
luminosity is $\sim25$% lower for the mass accretion rate of 1M$_{\odot}$/sec
and the rotation frequency of 0.1 Hz at a radius of 1000 km than that of the
spherically symmetric flow with the same mass accretion rate. We found that the
condition of the flow velocity at the critical luminosity is first satisfied at
the rotation axis. This suggests that the shock revival is triggered on the
rotation axis and a jet-like explosion ensues.