The adhesion of flowing particles and biological cells over fixed collecting
surfaces is vitally important in diverse situations and potentially controlled
by small-scale surface heterogeneity on the particle. Differences in the
behavior of patchy particles (flowing over uniform collectors) relative to the
reverse case of uniform particles (flowing over patchy collectors) are
quantified. Because a particle rotates more slowly than it translates in the
shear field near a collecting surface, the effective interaction time of a
patch on a particle is larger than that of a patch on the collector, suggesting
distinct particle capture tendencies in each case. This paper presents a new
computational approach to simulate the near-surface motion (rotation and
translation) of particles having nanoscale surface heterogeneities flowing over
uniform collectors. Small amounts of ~10 nm cationic patches randomly
distributed on a net-negative particle surface produced spatially varying DLVO
interactions that were computed via the Grid Surface Integration (GSI)
technique and then combined with hydrodynamic forces in a mobility tensor
formulation. Statistical analysis of simulated trajectories revealed fewer
extrema in the fluctuating particle-collector separation of heterogeneous
particles, compared with the reverse system geometry of uniform particles
flowing past a heterogeneous fixed surface. Additionally, the patchy particles
were captured to a lesser extent on uniform surfaces compared with the case of
uniform particles flowing above patchy collectors. Such behavior was dependent
on ionic strength, with the greatest differences obtained near a Debye length
of $\kappa^{-1} = 4$ nm for the $2a = 500$ nm simulated particles.