We prove the Riemannian Penrose conjecture, an important case of a conjecture
made by Roger Penrose in 1973, by defining a new flow of metrics. This flow of
metrics stays inside the class of asymptotically flat Riemannian 3-manifolds
with nonnegative scalar curvature which contain minimal spheres. In particular,
if we consider a Riemannian 3-manifold as a totally geodesic submanifold of a
space-time in the context of general relativity, then outermost minimal spheres
with total area $A$ correspond to apparent horizons of black holes contributing
a mass $\sqrt{A/16\pi}$, scalar curvature corresponds to local energy density
at each point, and the rate at which the metric becomes flat at infinity
corresponds to total mass. The Riemannian Penrose conjecture then states that
the total mass of an asymptotically flat 3-manifold with nonnegative scalar
curvature is greater than or equal to the mass contributed by the black holes.
  The flow of metrics we define continuously evolves the original 3-metric to a
Schwarzschild 3-metric, which represents a spherically symmetric black hole in
vacuum. We define the flow such that the area of the minimal spheres (which
flow outward) and hence the mass contributed by the black holes in each of the
metrics in the flow is constant, and then use the positive mass theorem to show
that the total mass of the metrics is nonincreasing. Then since the total mass
equals the mass of the black holes in a Schwarzschild metric, the Riemannian
Penrose conjecture follows.
  This result improves upon the beautiful work of Huisken and Ilmanen, who used
inverse mean curvature flows of surfaces to show that the total mass is at
least the mass contributed by the largest black hole.