The accretion-powered, X-ray pulsar 4U 1626-67 has recently shown an abrupt
torque reversal accompanied by a dramatic spectral transition and a relatively
small luminosity change. The time-averaged X-ray spectrum during spin-down is
considerably harder than during spin-up. The observed torque reversal can be
explained by an accretion flow transition triggered by a gradual change in the
mass accretion rate. The sudden transition to spin-down is caused by a change
in the accretion flow rotation from Keplerian to sub-Keplerian. 4U 1626-67 is
estimated to be near spin equilibrium with a mass accretion rate Mdot~2x10**16
g/s, Mdot decreasing at a rate ~6x10**14 g/s/yr, and a polar surface magnetic
field of ~2b_p**{-1/2} 10^**12G where b_p is the magnetic pitch. During
spin-up, the Keplerian flow remains geometrically thin and cool. During
spin-down, the sub-Keplerian flow becomes geometrically thick and hot. Soft
photons from near the stellar surface are Compton up-scattered by the hot
accretion flow during spin-down while during spin-up such scattering is
unlikely due to the small scale-height and low temperature of the flow. This
mechanism accounts for the observed spectral hardening and small luminosity
change. The scattering occurs in a hot radially falling column of material with
a scattering depth ~0.3 and a temperature ~10^9K. The X-ray luminosity at
energies >5keV could be a poor indicator of the mass accretion rate. We briefly
discuss the possible application of this mechanism to GX 1+4, although there
are indications that this system is significantly different from other
torque-reversal systems.