We investigate the strength of axisymmetric local pressure maxima (zonal
flows) in the outer regions of protoplanetary disks, where ambipolar diffusion
reduces turbulent stresses driven by the magnetorotational instability. Using
local numerical simulations we show that in the absence of net vertical
magnetic fields, the strength of turbulence in the ambipolar dominated region
of the disk is low and any zonal flows that are present are weak. For net
fields strong enough to yield observed protostellar accretion rates, however,
zonal flows with a density amplitude of 10-20% are formed. These strengths are
comparable to those seen in simulations of ideal MHD disk turbulence. We
investigate whether these zonal flows are able to reverse the inward radial
drift of solids, leading to prolonged and enhanced concentration as a prelude
to planetesimal formation. For commonly assumed mean surface density profiles
(surface density proportional to radius to the -1/2 power or steeper) we find
that the predicted perturbations to the background disk profile do not
correspond to local pressure maxima. This is a consequence of radial width of
the simulated zonal flows, which is larger than was assumed in prior analytic
models of particle trapping. These larger scale flows would only trap particles
for higher amplitude fluctuations than observed. We conclude that zonal flows
are likely to be present in the outer regions of protoplanetary disks and are
potentially large enough to be observable, but are unlikely to lead to strong
particle trapping.