We present three-dimensional numerical magnetohydrodynamic simulations of
radiatively inefficient spherical accretion onto a black hole. The simulations
are initialized with a Bondi flow, and with a weak, dynamically unimportant,
large-scale magnetic field. The magnetic field is amplified as the gas flows
in. When the magnetic pressure approaches equipartition with the gas pressure,
the field begins to reconnect and the gas is heated up. The heated gas is
buoyant and moves outward, causing line stretching of the frozen-in magnetic
field. This leads to further reconnection, and more heating and
buoyancy-induced motions, so that the flow makes a transition to a state of
self-sustained convection. The radial structure of the flow changes
dramatically from its initial Bondi profile, and the mass accretion rate onto
the black hole decreases significantly. Motivated by the numerical results, we
develop a simplified analytical model of a radiatively inefficient spherical
flow in which convective transport of energy to large radii plays an important
role. In this "convection-dominated Bondi flow" the accretion velocity is
highly subsonic and the density varies with radius as ~R^{-1/2} rather than the
standard Bondi scaling ~R^{-3/2}. We estimate that the mass accretion rate onto
the black hole is significantly less than the Bondi accretion rate.
Convection-dominated Bondi flows may be relevant for understanding many
astrophysical phenomena, e.g. post-supernova fallback and radiatively
inefficient accretion onto supermassive black holes, stellar-mass black holes
and neutron stars.