Meridional flow is thought to play a very important role in the dynamics of
the solar convection zone; however, because of its relatively small amplitude,
precisely measuring it poses a significant challenge. Here we present a
complete time-distance helioseismic analysis of about two years of ground-based
GONG Doppler data to retrieve the meridional circulation profile for modest
latitudes, in an attempt to corroborate results from other studies. We use an
empirical correction to the travel times due to an unknown center-to-limb
systematic effect. The helioseismic inversion procedure is first tested and
reasonably validated on artificial data from a large-scale numerical
simulation, followed by a test to broadly recover the solar differential
rotation found from global seismology.
  From GONG data, we measure poleward photospheric flows at all latitudes with
properties that are comparable with earlier studies, and a shallow equatorward
flow about $65$\,Mm beneath the surface, in agreement with recent findings from
HMI data. No strong evidence of multiple circulation cells in depth nor
latitude is found, yet the whole phase space has not yet been explored. Tests
of mass flux conservation are then carried out on the inferred GONG and HMI
flows and compared to a fiducial numerical baseline from models, and we find
that the continuity equation is poorly satisfied.
  While the two disparate data sets do give similar results for about the outer
$15\%$ of the interior radius, the total inverted circulation pattern appears
to be unphysical in terms of mass conservation when interpreted over modest
time scales. We can likely attribute this to both the influence of realization
noise and subtle effects in the data and measurement procedure.