We analyze the migration characteristics of a droplet in an oscillatory flow
field in a parallel plate micro-confinement. Using phase filed formalism, we
capture the dynamical evolution of the droplet over a wide range of the
frequency of the imposed oscillation in the flow field, drop size relative to
the channel gap, and the capillary number. The latter two factors imply the
contribution of droplet deformability, commonly considered in the study of
droplet migration under steady shear flow conditions. We show that the imposed
oscillation brings in additional time complexity in the droplet movement,
realized through temporally varying drop-shape, flow direction and the inertial
response of the droplet. As a consequence, we observe a spatially complicated
pathway of the droplet along the transverse direction, in sharp contrast to the
smooth migration under a similar yet steady shear flow condition. Intuitively,
the longitudinal component of the droplet movement is in tandem with the flow
continuity and evolves with time at the same frequency as that of the imposed
oscillation, although, with an amplitude decreasing with the frequency. The
time complexity of the transverse component of the movement pattern, however,
cannot by rationalized through such intuitive arguments. Towards bringing out
the underlying physics, we further endeavor in a reciprocal identity based
analysis. Following this approach, we unveil the time complexities of the
droplet movement, which appear to be sufficient to rationalize the complex
movement patterns observed through the comprehensive simulation studies. These
results can be of profound importance in designing droplet based microfluidic
systems in an oscillatory flow environment.