Flow-induced deformation of thin structures coupled with convective heat
transfer has potential applications in energy harvesting and is important for
understanding functioning of several biological systems. We numerically
demonstrate large-scale flow-induced deformation as an effective passive heat
transfer enhancement technique. An in-house, strongly-coupled fluid-structure
interaction (FSI) solver is employed in which flow and structure solvers are
based on sharp-interface immersed boundary and finite element method,
respectively. In the present work, we validate convective heat transfer module
of the in-house FSI solver against several benchmark examples of conduction and
convective heat transfer including moving structure boundaries. The thermal
augmentation is investigated as well as quantified for the flow-induced
deformation of an elastic thin plate attached to lee side of a rigid cylinder
in a heated channel laminar flow. We show that the wake vortices past the plate
sweep higher sources of vorticity generated on the channel walls out into the
high velocity regions, promoting the mixing of the fluid. The self-sustained
motion of the plate assists in convective mixing, augmenting convection in bulk
and near the walls, and thereby reducing thermal boundary layer thickness as
well as improving Nusselt number at the channel walls. We quantify the thermal
improvement with respect to channel flow without any bluff body and analyze the
role of Reynolds number, Prandtl number and material properties of the plate in
the thermal augmentation.