In the fluid dynamics video, we present a microfluidic device to measure the
propulsive power of nematodes. The device consists of a tapered conduit filled
with aqueous solution. The conduit is subjected to a DC electric field with the
negative pole at the narrow end and to pressure-driven flow directed from the
narrow end. The nematode is inserted at the conduit's wide end. Directed by the
electric field (through electrotaxis), the nematode swims deliberately upstream
toward the negative pole of the DC field. As the conduit narrows, the average
fluid velocity and the drag force on the nematode increase. Eventually, the
nematode arrives at an equilibrium position, at which its propulsive force
balances the viscous drag force induced by the adverse flow. The equilibrium
position of different animals, with similar body lengths, was measured as a
function of the flow rate. The flow field around the nematode was obtained by
direct numerical simulations with the experimentally imaged gait and the
tapered geometry of the conduit as boundary conditions. The flow field
generated by a swimming worm is similar to the one induced by two pairs of
counter rotating rotors. Equilibrium positions under different flow rates were
identified by finding the positions at which the horizontal component of the
total force exerted on the worm body vanishes. The theoretically predicted
equilibrium positions were compared and favorably agreed with the experimental
data. The nematode's propulsive power was calculated by integrating the product
of velocity and total stress over the worm's body surface. The device is useful
to retain the nematodes at a nearly fixed position for prolonged observations
of active animals under a microscope, to keep the nematode exercising, and to
estimate the nematode's power consumption based on the conduit's width at the
equilibrium position.