We obtain a characterization of feasible, Bayesian, multi-item multi-bidder
auctions with independent, additive bidders as distributions over hierarchical
mechanisms. Combined with cyclic-monotonicity our results provide a complete
characterization of feasible, Bayesian Incentive Compatible (BIC) auctions for
this setting.
  Our characterization is enabled by a novel, constructive proof of Border's
theorem, and a new generalization of this theorem to independent (but not
necessarily iid) bidders. For one item and independent bidders, we show that
any feasible reduced form auction can be implemented as a distribution over
hierarchical mechanisms. We also give a polytime algorithm for determining
feasibility of a reduced form, or finding a separation hyperplane from feasible
reduced forms. Finally, we provide polytime algorithms to find and exactly
sample from a distribution over hierarchical mechanisms consistent with a given
feasible reduced form.
  Our results generalize to multi-item reduced forms for independent, additive
bidders. For multiple items, additive bidders with hard demand constraints, and
arbitrary value correlation across items or bidders, we give a proper
generalization of Border's theorem, and characterize feasible reduced forms as
multicommodity flows in related multicommodity flow instances. We show that our
generalization holds for a broader class of feasibility constraints, including
intersections of any two matroids.
  As a corollary we obtain revenue-optimal, BIC mechanisms in multi-item
multi-bidder settings, when each bidder has arbitrarily correlated values over
the items and additive valuations over bundles, and bidders are independent.
Their runtime is polynomial in the total number of bidder types (instead of
type profiles), and is improved to poly(#items, #bidders) using recent
structural results on optimal BIC auctions in item-symmetric settings.