A new framework for the analysis of unstable oscillator flows is explored. In
linear settings, temporally growing perturbations in a non-parallel flow
represent unstable eigenmodes of the linear flow operator. In nonlinear
settings, self-sustained periodic oscillations of finite amplitude are commonly
described as nonlinear global modes. In both cases the flow dynamics may be
qualified as being endogenous, as opposed to the exogenous behaviour of
amplifier flows driven by external forcing. This paper introduces the
endogeneity concept, a specific definition of the sensitivity of the global
frequency and growth rate with respect to variations of the flow operator. The
endogeneity, defined both in linear and nonlinear settings, characterizes the
contribution of localized flow regions to the global eigendynamics. It is
calculated in a simple manner as the local point-wise inner product between the
time derivative of the direct flow state and an adjoint mode. This study
demonstrates for two canonical examples, the Ginzburg-Landau equation and the
wake of a circular cylinder, how an analysis based on the endogeneity may be
used for a physical discussion of the mechanisms that drive a global
instability. The results are shown to be consistent with earlier 'wavemaker'
definitions found in the literature, but the present formalism enables a more
detailed discussion: a clear distinction is made between oscillation frequency
and growth rate, and individual contributions from the various terms of the
flow operator can be isolated and separately discussed. [Truncated]