Fundamental standing modes and their overtones play an important role in
coronal seismology. We examine how a significant field-aligned flow affects
standing modes supported by coronal loops, modeled here as cold magnetic slabs.
Of particular interest are the period ratios of the fundamental to its
$(n-1)$-th overtone ($P_1/nP_n$) for both kink and sausage modes, and the
threshold half-width-to-length ratio for sausage modes. For standing kink
modes, the flow significantly reduces $P_1/nP_n$ in general, the effect being
particularly strong for larger $n$ and when the density contrast
$\rho_0/\rho_e$ between loops and their surroundings is weak. That said, even
when $\rho_0/\rho_e$ approaches infinity, this effect is still substantial,
reducing the minimal $P_1/nP_n$ by up to 13.7% (24.5%) for $n=2$ ($n=4$)
relative to the static case, when the Alfv\'en Mach number $M_A$ reaches 0.8
where $M_A$ measures the loop flow speed in units of the internal Alfv\'en
speed. For standing sausage modes, though not negligible, the flow effect in
reducing $P_1/nP_n$ is not as strong. However, the threshold
half-width-to-length ratio is considerably larger in the flowing case than its
static counterpart. For $\rho_0/\rho_e$ in the range $[9, 1024]$ and $M_A$ in
the range $[0, 0.5]$, an exhaustive parameter study yields that this threshold
is well fitted by our Equation (23) which involves the two parameters in a
simple way. This allows one to analytically constrain the combination
$(\rho_0/\rho_e, M_A)$ for a loop with known width-to-length ratio when a
standing sausage oscillation is identified therein. It also allows one to
further examine the idea of partial sausage modes, and the flow is found to
reduce significantly the spatial extent where partial modes are allowed.