The possibility that the magnetic shear-flow instability (MRI, Balbus-Hawley
instability) might give rise to turbulence in a cylindric Couette flow is
investigated through numerical simulations. The study is linear and the fluid
flow is supposed to be incompressible and differentially rotating with a simple
velocity profile with $\Omega = a+b/R^2$. The simplicity of the model is
counterbalanced by the fact that the study is fully global in all three spatial
directions with boundaries on each side; finite diffusivities are also allowed.
The investigation is also carried out for several values of the azimuthal
wavenumber of the perturbations in order to analyse whether non-axisymmetric
modes might be preferred, which might produce, in a non-linear extension of the
study, a self-sustained magnetic field.
  We find that with magnetic field the instability is easier to be excited than
without magnetic field. The critical Reynolds number for Pm$=1$ is of order 50
independent of whether the nonmagnetic flow is stable or not. Also we find that
i) the magnetic field strongly reduces the number of Taylor vortices, ii) the
angular momentum is transported outwards and iii) for finite c ylinders a netto
dynamo-alpha effect results which is negative for the upper part of the
cylinder and which is positive for the lower part of the cylinder.
  For magnetic Prandtl number smaller than unity the critical Reynolds number
scales with Pm$^{-0.65}$. If this was true even for very small magnetic Prandtl
number (e.g. liquid sodium) the critical Reynolds number should reach the value
10$^5$ which is, however, also characteristic for nonlinear fi nite-amplitude
hydrodynamic Taylor-Couette turbulence -- so that we easily have to expect the
simultaneous existence of both sorts of instabi lities in cold accretion disks.