We consider the skew-product semiflow which is generated by a scalar
reaction-diffusion equation \begin{equation*}
u_{t}=u_{xx}+f(t,u,u_{x}),\,\,t>0,\,x\in S^{1}=\mathbb{R}/2\pi \mathbb{Z},
\end{equation*} where $f$ is uniformly almost periodic in $t$. The structure of
the minimal set $M$ is thoroughly investigated under the assumption that the
center space $V^c(M)$ associated with $M$ is no more than $2$-dimensional. Such
situation naturally occurs while, for instance, $M$ is hyperbolic or uniquely
ergodic. It is shown in this paper that $M$ is a $1$-cover of the hull $H(f)$
provided that $M$ is hyperbolic (equivalently, ${\rm dim}V^c(M)=0$). If ${\rm
dim}V^c(M)=1$ (resp. ${\rm dim}V^c(M)=2$ with ${\rm dim}V^u(M)$ being odd),
then either $M$ is an almost $1$-cover of $H(f)$ and topologically conjugate to
a minimal flow in $\mathbb{R}\times H(f)$; or $M$ can be (resp. residually)
embedded into an almost periodically (resp. almost automorphically) forced
circle-flow $S^1\times H(f)$.
  When $f(t,u,u_x)=f(t,u,-u_x)$ (which includes the case $f=f(t,u)$), it is
proved that any minimal set $M$ is an almost $1$-cover of $H(f)$. In
particular, any hyperbolic minimal set $M$ is a $1$-cover of $H(f)$.
Furthermore, if ${\rm dim}V^c(M)=1$, then $M$ is either a $1$-cover of $H(f)$
or is topologically conjugate to a minimal flow in $\mathbb{R}\times H(f)$. For
the general spatially-dependent nonlinearity $f=f(t,x,u,u_{x})$, we show that
any stable or linearly stable minimal invariant set $M$ is residually embedded
into $\mathbb{R}^2\times H(f)$.