Central moment lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) is one of the more recent
developments among the lattice kinetic schemes for computational fluid
dynamics. A key element in this approach is the use of central moments to
specify collision process and forcing, and thereby naturally maintaining
Galilean invariance, an important characteristic of fluid flows. When the
different central moments are relaxed at different rates like in a standard
multiple relaxation time (MRT) formulation based on raw moments, it is endowed
with a number of desirable physical and numerical features. Since the collision
operator exhibits a cascaded structure, this approach is also known as the
cascaded LBM. While the cascaded LBM has been developed sometime ago, a
systematic study of its numerical properties, such as accuracy, grid
convergence and stability for well defined canonical problems is lacking and
the present work is intended to fulfill this need. We perform a quantitative
study of the performance of the cascaded LBM for a set of benchmark problems of
differing complexity, viz., Poiseuille flow, decaying Taylor-Green vortex flow
and lid-driven cavity flow. We first establish its grid convergence and
demonstrate second order accuracy under diffusive scaling for both the velocity
field and its derivatives, i.e. components of the strain rate tensor, as well.
The method is shown to quantitatively reproduce steady/unsteady analytical
solutions or other numerical results with excellent accuracy. Numerical
experiments further demonstrate that the central moment MRT LBM results in
significant stability improvements when compared with certain existing
collision models at moderate additional computational cost.