The solar activity cycle is successfully modeled by the flux transport
dynamo, in which the meridional circulation of the Sun plays an important role.
Most of the kinematic dynamo simulations assume a one-cell structure of the
meridional circulation within the convection zone, with the equatorward return
flow at its bottom. In view of the recent claims that the return flow occurs at
a much shallower depth, we explore whether a meridional circulation with such a
shallow return flow can still retain the attractive features of the flux
transport dynamo (such as a proper butterfly diagram, the proper phase relation
between the toroidal and poloidal fields). We consider additional cells of the
meridional circulation below the shallow return flow---both the case of
multiple cells radially stacked above one another and the case of more
complicated cell patterns. As long as there is an equatorward flow in low
latitudes at the bottom of the convection zone, we find that the solar behavior
is approximately reproduced. However, if there is either no flow or a poleward
flow at the bottom of the convection zone, then we cannot reproduce solar
behavior. On making the turbulent diffusivity low, we still find periodic
behavior, although the period of the cycle becomes unrealistically large. Also,
with a low diffusivity, we do not get the observed correlation between the
polar field at the sunspot minimum and the strength of the next cycle, which is
reproduced when diffusivity is high. On introducing radially downward pumping,
we get a more reasonable period and more solar-like behavior even with low
diffusivity.