We simulate dense assemblies of frictional spherical grains in steady shear
flow under controlled normal stress $P$ in the presence of a small amount of an
interstitial liquid, which gives rise to capillary menisci, assumed isolated
(pendular regime), and to attractive forces. The system behavior depends on two
dimensionless control parameters: inertial number $I$ and reduced pressure
$P^*=aP/(\pi\Gamma)$, comparing confining forces $\sim a^2P$ to meniscus
tensile strength $F_0=\pi\Gamma a$, for grains of diameter $a$ joined by
menisci with surface tension $\Gamma$. We pay special attention to the
quasi-static limit of slow flow and observe systematic, enduring strain
localization in some of the cohesion-dominated ($P^*\sim 0.1$) systems.
Homogeneous steady flows are characterized by the dependence of internal
friction coefficient $\mu^*$ and solid fraction $\Phi$ on $I$ and $P^*$. We
record fairly small but not negligible normal stress differences and the
moderate sensitivity of the system to saturation within the pendular regime.
Capillary forces have a significant effect on the macroscopic behavior of the
system, up to $P^*$ values of several units. The concept of effective pressure
may be used to predict an order of magnitude for the strong increase of $\mu^*$
as $P^*$ decreases but such a crude approach is unable to account for the
complex structural changes induced by capillary cohesion. Likewise, the
Mohr-Coulomb criterion for pressure-dependent critical states is, at best, an
approximation valid within a restricted range of pressures, with $P^*\ge 1$. At
small enough $P^*$, large clusters of interacting grains form in slow flows, in
which liquid bonds survive shear strains of several units. This affects the
anisotropies associated to different interactions, and the shape of function
$\mu^*(I)$, which departs more slowly from its quasistatic limit than in
cohesionless systems.