We consider the lifecycle of dust introduced into the hot interstellar medium
in isolated elliptical galaxies. Dust grains are ejected into galactic-scale
cooling flows in large ellipticals by normal mass loss from evolving red
giants. Newly introduced dust rapidly enters the hot gas environment and is
sputtered away by thermal collisions with ions. Before the grains are
completely sputtered away, they emit prodigious amounts of infrared radiation
which may contribute to the large far infrared luminosities observed in
ellipticals. In order to study the global properties of grains in ellipticals
we construct a new series of King-type galactic models which are consistent
with the fundamental plane, galactic mass to light ratios and other relevant
observational correlations. We describe a new ``continuity'' procedure to
construct simple time-dependent gas dynamic models for cooling flows. In all
galaxy models, although grains can flow a considerable distance from their
radius of origin before being sputtered away, the grain size distribution is
accurately determined by assuming {\it in situ} sputtering, completely ignoring
advection. The dominant source of grain heating is absorption of starlight;
grain heating by collisions with energetic thermal electrons or X-ray
absorption are negligible. However, we also show that when self-consistent
grain sputtering is included the dust-to-gas ratio is reduced and radiative
cooling, not electron-grain interactions dominates plasma cooling, even for the
most massive ellipticals.