We study the dynamical effects of gravitational focusing by a binary
companion on winds from late-type stars. In particular, we investigate the mass
transfer and formation of accretion disks around the secondary in detached
systems consisting of an AGB mass-losing star and an accreting companion. The
presence of mass outflows is studied as a function of mass loss rate, wind
temperature and binary orbital parameters. A 2-dimensional hydrodynamical model
is used to study the stability of mass transfer in wind accreting symbiotic
binary systems. In our simulations we use an adiabatic equation of state and a
modified version of the isothermal approximation, where the temperature depends
on the distance from the mass losing star and its companion. We explore the
accretion flow between the components and formation of accretion disks for a
range of orbital separations and wind parameters. Our results show the
formation of stream flow between the stars and accretion disks of various sizes
for certain orbital configurations. For a typical slow and massive wind from an
AGB star the flow pattern is similar to a RLOF with accretion rates of 10% of
the mass loss from the primary. Stable disks with exponentially decreasing
density profiles and masses of the order $10^{-4}$ solar masses are formed when
wind acceleration occurs at several stellar radii. The formation of tidal
streams and accretion disks is found to be weakly dependent on the mass loss
from the AGB star. Our simulations of gravitationally focused wind accretion in
symbiotic binaries show the formation of stream flows and enhanced accretion
rates onto the compact component.