The energy gradient theory is used to study the instability of Taylor-Couette
flow between concentric rotating cylinders. This theory has been proposed in
our previous works. In our previous studies, the energy gradient theory was
demonstrated to be applicable for wall-bounded parallel flows. It was found
that the critical value of the energy gradient parameter Kmax at turbulent
transition is about 370-389 for wall-bounded parallel flows (which include
plane Poiseuille flow, pipe Poiseuille flow and plane Couette flow) below which
no turbulence occurs. In this paper, the detailed derivation for the
calculation of the energy gradient parameter in the flow between concentric
rotating cylinders is provided. The calculated results for the critical
condition of primary instability (with semi-empirical treatment) are found to
be in very good agreement with the experiments in the literature. A possible
mechanism of spiral turbulence generation observed for counter-rotation of two
cylinders can also be explained using the energy gradient theory. The energy
gradient theory can serve to relate the condition of transition in
Taylor-Couette flow to that in plane Couette flow. The latter reasonably
becomes the limiting case of the former when the radii of cylinders tend to
infinity. It is our contention that the energy gradient theory is possibly
fairly universal for analysis of flow instability and turbulent transition, and
is found valid for both pressure and shear driven flows in parallel and
rotating flow configurations.