Universal bi-Hamiltonian hierarchies of group-invariant (multicomponent)
soliton equations are derived from non-stretching geometric curve flows
$\map(t,x)$ in Riemannian symmetric spaces $M=G/H$, including compact
semisimple Lie groups $M=K$ for $G=K\times K$, $H={\rm diag} G$. The derivation
of these soliton hierarchies utilizes a moving parallel frame and connection
1-form along the curve flows, related to the Klein geometry of the Lie group
$G\supset H$ where $H$ is the local frame structure group. The soliton
equations arise in explicit form from the induced flow on the frame components
of the principal normal vector $N=\covder{x}\mapder{x}$ along each curve, and
display invariance under the equivalence subgroup in $H$ that preserves the
unit tangent vector $T=\mapder{x}$ in the framing at any point $x$ on a curve.
Their bi-Hamiltonian integrability structure is shown to be geometrically
encoded in the Cartan structure equations for torsion and curvature of the
parallel frame and its connection 1-form in the tangent space $T_\map M$ of the
curve flow. The hierarchies include group-invariant versions of sine-Gordon
(SG) and modified Korteweg-de Vries (mKdV) soliton equations that are found to
be universally given by curve flows describing non-stretching wave maps and
mKdV analogs of non-stretching Schrodinger maps on $G/H$. These results provide
a geometric interpretation and explicit bi-Hamiltonian formulation for many
known multicomponent soliton equations. Moreover, all examples of
group-invariant (multicomponent) soliton equations given by the present
geometric framework can be constructed in an explicit fashion based on Cartan's
classification of symmetric spaces.