We report theoretical and experimental investigations of the flow instability
responsible for the mushy-layer mode of convection and the formation of
chimneys, drainage channels devoid of solid, during steady-state solidification
of aqueous ammonium chloride. Under certain growth conditions a state of steady
mushy-layer growth with no flow is unstable to the onset of convection,
resulting in the formation of chimneys. We present regime diagrams to quantify
the state of the flow as a function of the initial liquid concentration, the
porous-medium Rayleigh number, and the sample width. For a given liquid
concentration, increasing both the porous-medium Rayleigh number and the sample
width caused the system to change from a stable state of no flow to a different
state with the formation of chimneys. Decreasing the concentration ratio
destabilized the system and promoted the formation of chimneys. As the initial
liquid concentration increased, onset of convection and formation of chimneys
occurred at larger values of the porous-medium Rayleigh number, but the
critical cell widths for chimney formation are far less sensitive to the liquid
concentration. At the highest liquid concentration, the mushy-layer mode of
convection did not occur in the experiment. The formation of multiple chimneys
and the morphological transitions between these states are discussed. The
experimental results are interpreted in terms of a previous theoretical
analysis of finite amplitude convection with chimneys, with a single value of
the mushy-layer permeability consistent with the liquid concentrations
considered in this study.