The discrete wavelet packet transform (DWPT) and discrete wavelet transform
(DWT) are used to extract and study the dynamics of coherent structures in a
turbulent rotating fluid. Three-dimensional (3D) turbulence is generated by
strong pumping through tubes at the bottom of a rotating tank (48.4 cm high,
39.4 cm diameter). This flow evolves toward two-dimensional (2D) turbulence
with increasing height in the tank. Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV)
measurements on the quasi-2D flow reveal many long-lived coherent vortices with
a wide range of sizes. The vorticity fields exhibit vortex birth, merger,
scattering, and destruction. We separate the flow into a low-entropy
``coherent'' and a high-entropy ``incoherent'' component by thresholding the
coefficients of the DWPT and DWT of the vorticity fields. Similar thresholdings
using the Fourier transform and JPEG compression together with the Okubo-Weiss
criterion are also tested for comparison. We find that the DWPT and DWT yield
similar results and are much more efficient at representing the total flow than
a Fourier-based method. Only about 3% of the large-amplitude coefficients of
the DWPT and DWT are necessary to represent the coherent component and preserve
the vorticity probability density function, transport properties, and spatial
and temporal correlations. The remaining small amplitude coefficients represent
the incoherent component, which has near Gaussian vorticity PDF, contains no
coherent structures, rapidly loses correlation in time, and does not contribute
significantly to the transport properties of the flow. This suggests that one
can describe and simulate such turbulent flow using a relatively small number
of wavelet or wavelet packet modes.