In this paper we use the finite size Lyapunov Exponent (FSLE) to characterize
Lagrangian coherent structures in three-dimensional (3d) turbulent flows.
Lagrangian coherent structures act as the organizers of transport in fluid
flows and are crucial to understand their stirring and mixing properties.
Generalized maxima (ridges) of the FSLE fields are used to locate these
coherent structures.
  Three-dimensional FSLE fields are calculated in two phenomenologically
distinct turbulent flows: a wall-bounded flow (channel flow) and a regional
oceanic flow obtained by numerical solution of the primitive equations where
two-dimensional turbulence dominates.
  In the channel flow, autocorrelations of the FSLE field show that the
structure is substantially different from the near wall to the mid-channel
region and relates well to the more widely studied Eulerian coherent structure
of the turbulent channel flow. The ridges of the FSLE field have complex shapes
due to the 3d character of the turbulent fluctuations.
  In the oceanic flow, strong horizontal stirring is present and the flow
regime is similar to that of 2d turbulence where the domain is populated by
coherent eddies that interact strongly. This in turn results in the presence of
high FSLE lines throughout the domain leading to strong non-local mixing. The
ridges of the FSLE field are quasi-vertical surfaces, indicating that the
horizontal dynamics dominates the flow. Indeed, due to rotation and
stratification, vertical motions in the ocean are much less intense than
horizontal ones. This suppression is absent in the channel flow, as the 3d
character of the FSLE ridges shows.