We present an analytical and numerical study of the long-time flow which
controls the dissolution of a plume of CO$_2$ following injection into an
anticline structure in a deep saline aquifer of finite vertical extent. Over
times of tens to thousands of years, some of the CO$_2$ will dissolve into the
underlying groundwater to produce a region of relatively dense, CO$_2$
saturated water directly below the plume of CO$_2$. Continued dissolution then
requires the supply of CO$_2$ unsaturated aquifer water. This may be provided
by a background hydrological flow or buoyancy driven flow caused by the density
contrast between the CO$_2$ saturated and unsaturated water in the aquifer. At
long times, the interaction of the cross-layer diffusive mixing with the
buoyancy, leads to buoyancy driven shear dispersion of the CO$_2$. With a
background hydrological flow, the upstream transport of dissolved CO$_2$ by
this dispersion becomes balanced by the oncoming hydrological flow so that
CO$_2$ rich water can only spread a finite distance upstream. We find
analytical solutions for the distribution of CO$_2$ in the water in both the
diffusion and shear-dispersion dominated limits, and compare these with full
numerical solutions for the flow. The key result of our modelling is that the
ultimate dissolution rate is simply given by the product of the flux and degree
of unsaturation of the aquifer water supplied by the hydrological flow.
However, the distance upstream at which there are elevated levels of CO$_2$ is
controlled by the shear dispersion, and is of order 10-100m for typical aquifer
conditions.