Differential elliptic flow spectra v2(pT) of \pi-, K0short, p, \Lambda have
been measured at \sqrt(s NN)= 17.3 GeV around midrapidity by the
CERN-CERES/NA45 experiment in mid-central Pb+Au collisions (10% of
\sigma(geo)). The pT range extends from about 0.1 GeV/c (0.55 GeV/c for
\Lambda) to more than 2 GeV/c. Protons below 0.4 GeV/c are directly identified
by dE/dx. At higher pT, proton elliptic flow v2(pT) is derived as a
constituent, besides \pi+ and K+, of the elliptic flow of positive pion
candidates. The retrieval requires additional inputs: (i) of the particle
composition, and (ii) of v2(pT) of positive pions. For (i), particle ratios
obtained by NA49 were adapted to CERES conditions; for (ii), the measured
v2(pT) of negative pions is substituted, assuming \pi+ and \pi- elliptic flow
magnitudes to be sufficiently close. The v2(pT) spectra are compared to
ideal-hydrodynamics calculations. In synopsis of the series \pi- - K0short - p
- \Lambda, flow magnitudes are seen to fall with decreasing pT progressively
even below hydro calculations with early kinetic freeze-out (Tf= 160 MeV)
leaving not much time for hadronic evolution. The proton v2(pT) data show a
downward swing towards low pT with excursions into negative v2 values. The
pion-flow isospin asymmetry observed recently by STAR at RHIC, invalidating in
principle our working assumption, is found in its impact on proton flow
bracketed from above by the direct proton flow data, and not to alter any of
our conclusions. Results are discussed in perspective of recent viscous
dynamics studies which focus on late hadronic stages.