In an attempt to reconcile recent spectral data with predictions of the
standard cooling flow model, it has been suggested that the metals in the
intracluster medium (ICM) might be distributed inhomogeneously on small scales.
We investigate the possible consequences of such a situation within the
framework of the cooling flow scenario. Using the standard isobaric cooling
flow model, we study the ability of such metallicity variations to
preferentially suppress low-temperature line emission in cooling flow spectra.
We then use simple numerical simulations to investigate the temporal and
spatial evolution of the ICM when the metals are distributed in such a fashion.
Simulated observations are used to study the constraints real data can place on
conditions in the ICM. The difficulty of ruling out abundance variations on
small spatial scales with current observational limits is emphasized. We find
that a bimodal distribution of metals may give rise to interesting effects in
the observed abundance profile, in that apparent abundance gradients with
central abundance drops and off-centre peaks, similar to those seen recently in
some clusters, are produced. Different elements behave in different fashion as
governed by the temperature dependence of their equivalent widths. Our overall
conclusion is that, whilst this process alone seems unlikely to be able to
account for the sharp reduction in low temperature emission lines seen in
current spectral data, a contribution at some level is possible and difficult
to rule out. The possibility of small-scale metallicity variations should be
considered when analysing high resolution cluster X-ray spectra.