A rigid-plastic Cosserat model for slow frictional flow of granular
materials, proposed by us in an earlier paper, has been used to analyze plane
and cylindrical Couette flow. In this model, the hydrodynamic fields of a
classical continuum are supplemented by the couple stress and the intrinsic
angular velocity fields. The balance of angular momentum, which is satisfied
implicitly in a classical continuum, must be enforced in a Cosserat continuum.
As a result, the stress tensor could be asymmetric, and the angular velocity of
a material point may differ from half the local vorticity. An important
consequence of treating the granular medium as a Cosserat continuum is that it
incorporates a material length scale in the model, which is absent in
frictional models based on a classical continuum. Further, the Cosserat model
allows determination of the velocity fields uniquely in viscometric flows, in
contrast to classical frictional models. Experiments on viscometric flows of
dense, slowly deforming granular materials indicate that shear is confined to a
narrow region, usually a few grain diameters thick, while the remaining
material is largely undeformed. This feature is captured by the present model,
and the velocity profile predicted for cylindrical Couette flow is in good
agreement with reported data. When the walls of the Couette cell are smoother
than the granular material, the model predicts that the shear layer thickness
is independent of the Couette gap $H$ when the latter is large compared to the
grain diameter $d_p$. When the walls are of the same roughness as the granular
material, the model predicts that the shear layer thickness varies as
$(H/d_p)^{1/3}$ in the limit $(H/d_p) \gg 1$, for plane shear under gravity and
cylindrical Couette flow.