In this paper, the self-similar solution of resistive advection dominated
accretion flows (ADAF) in the presence of a pure azimuthal magnetic field is
investigated. The mechanism of energy dissipation is assumed to be the
viscosity and the magnetic diffusivity due to turbulence in the accretion flow.
It is assumed that the magnetic diffusivity and the kinematic viscosity are not
constant and vary by position and $\alpha$-prescription is used for them. In
order to solve the integrated equations that govern the behavior of the
accretion flow, a self-similar method is used. The solutions show that the
structure of accretion flow depends on the magnetic field and the magnetic
diffusivity. As, the radial infall velocity and the temperature of the flow
increase, and the rotational velocity decreases. Also, the rotational velocity
for all selected values of magnetic diffusivity and magnetic field is
sub-Keplerian. The solutions show that there is a certain amount of magnetic
field that the rotational velocity of the flow becomes zero. This amount of the
magnetic field depends on the gas properties of the disc, such as adiabatic
index and viscosity, magnetic diffusivity, and advection parameters. The
solutions show the mass accretion rate increases by adding the magnetic
diffusivity and in high magnetic pressure case, the ratio of the mass accretion
rate to the Bondi accretion rate decreases as magnetic field increases. Also,
the study of Lundquist and magnetic Reynolds numbers based on resistivity
indicates that the linear growth of magnetorotational instability (MRI) of the
flow decreases by resistivity. This property is qualitatively consistent with
resistive magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) simulations.