(Abridged) A new type of self-similar hot viscous radiative accretion flow
onto a rapidly spinning neutron star has recently been discovered. This ``hot
brake'' flow forms in the two-temperature zone (close to a central object), but
at a sufficiently low accretion rate and a high spin it may extend in the
radial direction beyond ~300 Schwarzchild radii into a one-temperature zone.
When the spin of the star is small enough, the flow transforms smoothly to an
advection-dominated accretion flow. All gas parameters (density, angular
velocity, temperature, luminosity, angular momentum flux) except for the radial
velocity are independent of the mass accretion rate. The radiative efficiency
may be arbitrarily large as M-dot -> 0. The gas angular momentum is transported
outward under most conditions, hence the central star is nearly always
spun-down. The flow is convectively stable. We also find that themal conduction
in the flow is strong enough to make the flow thermally stable. The very fact
that the density, temperature and angular velocity of the gas at any radius in
the hot brake flow are completely independent of the outer and inner (except
for the star spin) boundary conditions implies that the flow cannot be smoothly
matched to a general external medium as well as to general conditions on the
star surface. We demonstrate that there are two extra self-similar solutions:
one bridges the gap between the original solution and the external medium, and
another represents a boundary layer between the bulk of the flow and the star
surface, in which the gas temperature rapidly drops while the density builds
up. Finally, we briefly discuss that a hot brake flow may form around other
rapidly spinning compact objects: white dwarfs and black holes.