We detect a distant cluster of galaxies centered on the QSO lens and luminous
X-ray source AXJ2019+112, a.k.a. ``The Dark Cluster'' (Hattori et al 1997).
Using deep V,I Keck images and wide-field K_s imaging from the NTT, a tight red
sequence of galaxies is identified within a radius of 0.2 h^{-1} Mpc of the
known z=1.01 elliptical lensing galaxy. The sequence, which includes the
central elliptical galaxy, has a slope in good agreement with the model
predictions of Kodama et al (1998) for z~1. We estimate the integrated
rest-frame luminosity of the cluster to be L_V > 3.2 x 10^{11}h^{-2}L_{\sun}
(after accounting for significant extinction at the low latitude of this
field), more than an order of magnitude higher than previous estimates. The
central region of the cluster is deconvolved using the technique of Magain,
Courbin & Sohy (1998), revealing a thick central arc coincident with an
extended radio source. All the observed lensing features are readily explained
by differential magnification of a radio loud AGN by a shallow elliptical
potential. The QSO must lie just outside the diamond caustic, producing two
images, and the arc is a highly magnified image formed from a region close to
the center of the host galaxy, projecting inside the caustic. The
mass--to--light ratio within an aperture of 0.4 h ^{-1} Mpc is M_x/L_V=
224^{+112}_{-78}h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, using the X-ray temperature. The strong lens
model yields a compatible value, M/L_V= 372^{+94}_{-94}h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, whereas
an independent weak lensing analysis sets an upper limit of M/L_V <520
h(M/L_V)_{\sun}, typical of massive clusters.