A complete set of diagnostic tools aimed at producing synthetic synchrotron
emissivity, polarization, and spectral index maps from relativistic MHD
simulations is presented. As a first application we consider here the case of
the emission from Pulsar Wind Nebulae (PWNe). The proposed method is based on
the addition, on top of the basic set of MHD equations, of an extra equation
describing the evolution of the maximum energy of the emitting particles. This
equation takes into account adiabatic and synchrotron losses along streamlines
for the distribution of emitting particles and its formulation is such that it
is easily implemented in any numerical scheme for relativistic MHD. Application
to the axisymmetric simulations of PWNe, analogous to those described by Del
Zanna et al. (2004, A&A, 421, 1063), allows direct comparison between the
numerical results and observations of the inner structure of the Crab Nebula,
and similar objects, in the optical and X-ray bands. We are able to match most
of the observed features typical of PWNe, like the equatorial torus and the
polar jets, with velocities in the correct range, as well as finer emission
details, like arcs, rings and the bright knot, that turn out to arise mainly
from Doppler boosting effects. Spectral properties appear to be well reproduced
too: detailed spectral index maps are produced for the first time and show
softening towards the PWN outer borders, whereas spectral breaks appear in
integrated spectra. The emission details are found to strongly depend on both
the average wind magnetization (here approximately 2%), and on the magnetic
field shape.