We focus on the downlink of a cellular system, which corresponds to the bulk
of the data transfer in such wireless systems. We address the problem of
opportunistic multiuser scheduling under imperfect channel state information,
by exploiting the memory inherent in the channel. In our setting, the channel
between the base station and each user is modeled by a two-state Markov chain
and the scheduled user sends back an ARQ feedback signal that arrives at the
scheduler with a random delay that is i.i.d across users and time. The
scheduler indirectly estimates the channel via accumulated delayed-ARQ feedback
and uses this information to make scheduling decisions. We formulate a
throughput maximization problem as a partially observable Markov decision
process (POMDP). For the case of two users in the system, we show that a greedy
policy is sum throughput optimal for any distribution on the ARQ feedback
delay. For the case of more than two users, we prove that the greedy policy is
suboptimal and demonstrate, via numerical studies, that it has near optimal
performance. We show that the greedy policy can be implemented by a simple
algorithm that does not require the statistics of the underlying Markov channel
or the ARQ feedback delay, thus making it robust against errors in system
parameter estimation. Establishing an equivalence between the two-user system
and a genie-aided system, we obtain a simple closed form expression for the sum
capacity of the Markov-modeled downlink. We further derive inner and outer
bounds on the capacity region of the Markov-modeled downlink and tighten these
bounds for special cases of the system parameters.