As Arctic sea ice extent decreases with increasing greenhouse gases, there is
a growing interest in whether there could be a bifurcation associated with its
loss, and whether there is significant hysteresis associated with that
bifurcation. A challenge in answering this question is that the bifurcation
behavior of certain Arctic energy balance models have been shown to be
sensitive to how ice-albedo feedback is parameterized. We analyze an Arctic
energy balance model in the limit as a smoothing parameter associated with
ice-albedo feedback tends to zero, which makes the system piecewise-smooth. Our
analysis provides a case study where we use the piecewise-smooth system to
explore bifurcation behavior of the smooth system. In this case study, we
demonstrate that certain qualitative bifurcation behaviors of the smooth system
can have nonsmooth counterparts. We use this perspective to systematically
search parameter space. For example, we uncover parameter sets for which the
largest transition, with increasing greenhouse gases, is from a perennially
ice-covered Arctic to a seasonally ice-free state, an unusual bifurcation
scenario that persists even when smoothing is re-introduced. This analysis
provides an alternative perspective on how parameters of the model affect
bifurcation behavior. We expect our approach, which exploits the width of
repelling sliding intervals for understanding the hysteresis loops, would carry
over to other positive feedback systems with a similar natural piecewise-smooth
limit, and when the feedback strength is likewise modulated with seasons or
other periodic forcing.