We report on the serendipitous discovery of the brightest Lyman Break Galaxy
(LBG) currently known, a galaxy at z=2.73 that is being strongly lensed by the
z=0.38 Luminous Red Galaxy (LRG) SDSS J002240.91+143110.4. The arc of this
gravitational lens system, which we have dubbed the "8 o'clock arc" due to its
time of discovery, was initially identified in the imaging data of the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey Data Release 4 (SDSS DR4); followup observations on the
Astrophysical Research Consortium (ARC) 3.5m telescope at Apache Point
Observatory confirmed the lensing nature of this system and led to the
identification of the arc's spectrum as that of an LBG. The arc has a spectrum
and a redshift remarkably similar to those of the previous record-holder for
brightest LBG (MS 1512-cB58, a.k.a "cB58"), but, with an estimated total
magnitude of (g,r,i) = (20.0,19.2,19.0) and surface brightness of
(mu_g,mu_r,mu_i) = (23.3, 22.5, 22.3) mag/arcsec^2, the 8 o'clock arc is thrice
as bright. The 8 o'clock arc, which consists of three lensed images of the LBG,
is 162deg (9.6arcsec) long and has a length-to-width ratio of 6:1. A fourth
image of the LBG -- a counter-image -- can also be identified in the ARC 3.5m
g-band images. A simple lens model for the system assuming a singular
isothermal ellipsoid potential yields an Einstein radius of 2.91+/-0.14 arcsec,
a total mass for the lensing LRG (within the (10.6+/-0.5)/h kpc enclosed by the
lensed images) of 1.04x10^12/h Msun, and a magnification factor for the LBG of
12.3(+15/-3.6). The LBG itself is intrinsically quite luminous (approximately
6L*) and shows indications of massive recent star formation, perhaps as high as
160/h Msun/year.