Our analysis of a VLBA 12-hour synthesis observation of the OH masers in a
well-known star-forming region W49N has yielded valuable data that enables us
to probe distributions of magnetic fields in both the maser columns and the
intervening interstellar medium (ISM). The data consisting of detailed high
angular-resolution images (with beam-width ~20 milli-arc-seconds) of several
dozen OH maser sources or "spots", at 1612, 1665 and 1667 MHz, reveal
anisotropic scatter broadening, with typical sizes of a few tens of
milli-arc-seconds and axial ratios between 1.5 to 3. Such anisotropies have
been reported earlier by Desai, Gwinn & Diamond (1994) and interpreted as
induced by the local magnetic field parallel to the Galactic plane. However, we
find a) the apparent angular sizes on the average a factor of ~2.5 less than
those reported by Desai et al. (1994), indicating significantly less scattering
than inferred earlier, and b) a significant deviation in the average
orientation of the scatter-broadened images (by ~10 degrees) from that implied
by the magnetic field in the Galactic plane. More intriguingly, for a few
Zeeman pairs in our set, significant differences (up to 6 sigma) are apparent
in the scatter broadened images for the two hands of circular polarization,
even when apparent velocity separation is less than 0.1 km/s. This may possibly
be the first example of a Faraday rotation contribution to the diffractive
effects in the ISM. Using the Zeeman pairs, we also study the distribution of
magnetic field in the W49N complex, finding no significant trend in the spatial
structure function. In this paper, we present the details of our observations
and analysis leading to these findings, discuss implications of our results for
the intervening anisotropic magneto-ionic medium, and suggest the possible
implications for the structure of magnetic fields within this star-forming
region.