In recent years it has become clear that the vertical structure of disk
galaxies is a key ingredient for understanding galaxy evolution. In particular,
the presence and structure of extra-planar gas has been a focus of research.
The Hydrogen Accretion in LOcal GAlaxieS (HALOGAS) survey aims to provide a
census on the rate of cold neutral gas accretion in nearby galaxies as well as
a statistically significant set of galaxies that can be investigated for their
extra-planar gas properties.
  In order to better understand the the vertical structure of the neutral
hydrogen in the two edge-on HALOGAS galaxies NGC 5023 and UGC 2082 we construct
detailed tilted ring models. The addition of distortions resembling arcs or
spiral arms significantly improves the fit of the models to these galaxies. In
the case of UGC 2082 no vertical gradient in rotational velocity is required in
either symmetric models nor non-symmetric models to match the observations. The
best fitting model features two arcs of large vertical extent that may be due
to accretion. In the case of NGC 5023 a vertical gradient is required in
symmetric models (dV/dz =$-14.9\pm3.8$ km s$^{-1}$ kpc$^{-1}$) and its
magnitude is significantly lowered when non-symmetric models are considered
(dV/dz =$-9.4\pm3.8$ km s$^{-1}$ kpc$^{-1}$). Additionally it is shown that the
underlying disk of NGC 5023 can be made symmetric, in all parameters except the
warp, in non-symmetric models. In comparison to the "classical" modeling these
models fit the data significantly better with a limited addition of free
parameters.