Eukaryotic cells can move spontaneously without being guided by external
cues. For such spontaneous movements, a variety of different modes have been
observed, including the amoeboid-like locomotion with protrusion of multiple
pseudopods, the keratocyte-like locomotion with a widely spread lamellipodium,
cell division with two daughter cells crawling in opposite directions, and
fragmentations of a cell to multiple pieces. Mutagenesis studies have revealed
that cells exhibit these modes depending on which genes are deficient,
suggesting that seemingly different modes are the manifestation of a common
mechanism to regulate cell motion. In this paper, we propose a hypothesis that
the positive feedback mechanism working through the inhomogeneous distribution
of regulatory proteins underlies this variety of cell locomotion and
cytofission. In this hypothesis, a set of regulatory proteins, which we call
cortical factors, suppress actin polymerization. These suppressing factors are
diluted at the extending front and accumulated at the retracting rear of cell,
which establishes a cellular polarity and enhances the cell motility, leading
to the further accumulation of cortical factors at the rear. Stochastic
simulation of cell movement shows that the positive feedback mechanism of
cortical factors stabilizes or destabilizes modes of movement and determines
the cell migration pattern. The model predicts that the pattern is selected by
changing the rate of formation of the actin-filament network or the threshold
to initiate the network formation.