This review is devoted to generalization of dynamical mean-field theory
(DMFT) for strongly correlated electronic systems towards the account of
different types of additional interactions, necessary for correct physical
description of many experimentally observed phenomena in such systems. As
additional interactions we consider: (1) interaction of electrons with
antiferromagnetic (or charge) fluctuations of order parameter in high-Tc
superconductors leading to the formation of pseudogap state, (2) scattering of
electrons on static disorder and its role in general picture of
Anderson-Hubbard metal-insulator transition, (3) electron-phonon interaction
and corresponding anomalies of electronic spectra in strongly correlated
systems. Proposed DMFT+Sigma approach is based on taking into account above
mentioned interactions by introducing additional self-energy Sigma (in general
momentum dependent) into conventional DMFT scheme and calculated in a
self-consistent way within the standard set of DMFT equations. Here we
formulate general scheme of calculation of both one-particle (spectral
functions and densities of states) and two-particle (optical conductivity)
properties. We examine the problem of pseudogap formation, including the Fermi
arc formation and partial destruction of the Fermi surface, metal-insulator
transition in disordered Anderson-Hubbard model, and general picture of kink
formation within electronic spectra in strongly correlated systems. DMFT+Sigma
approach is generalized to describe realistic materials with strong
electron-electron correlations based on LDA+DMFT method. General scheme of
LDA+DMFT method is presented together with some of its applications to real
systems. The LDA+DMFT+Sigma approach is employed to modelling of pseudogap
state of electron and hole doped high-T_c cuprates. Comparison with variety of
ARPES experiments is given.