This paper is concerned with the fading MIMO-MAC with multiple receive
antennas at the base station (BS) and multiple transmit antennas at each mobile
terminal (MT). Two multiple-access techniques are considered for scheduling
transmissions from each MT to the BS at the same frequency, which are
space-division multiple-access (SDMA) and time-division multiple-access (TDMA).
For SDMA, all MTs transmit simultaneously to the BS and their individual
signals are resolved at the BS via multiple receive antennas while for TDMA,
each MT transmits independently to the BS during mutually orthogonal time
slots. It is assumed that the channel-state information (CSI) of the fading
channel from each MT to the BS is unknown at each MT transmitter, but is
perfectly known at the BS receiver. Thereby, the BS can acquire the long-term
channel-distribution information (CDI) for each MT. This paper extends the
well-known transmit-covariance feedback scheme for the point-to-point fading
MIMO channel to the fading MIMO-MAC, whereby the BS jointly optimizes the
transmit signal covariance matrices for all MTs based on their CDI, and then
sends each transmit covariance matrix back to the corresponding MT via a
feedback channel. The main goal of this paper is to characterize the so-called
multiuser power region under the multiuser transmit-covariance feedback scheme
for both SDMA and TDMA. The power region is defined as the constitution of all
user transmit power-tuples that can achieve reliable transmissions for a given
set of user target rates. Simulation results show that SDMA can achieve
substantial power savings over TDMA for the fading MIMO-MAC. Moreover, this
paper demonstrates the usefulness of the multiuser power region for maintaining
proportionally-fair power consumption among the MTs.