We present photoionization calculations for the spatially-extended absorbers
observed towards the extended emission line spectrum of two high-redshift radio
galaxies: 0943-242 (z=2.922) and 0200+015 (z=2.230), with the aim of
reproducing the absorber column ratio, N(CIV)/N(HI). We explore the effects of
using different UV continua in the photoionization calculations. A comparison
is drawn between the absorber in 0200+015 and the two absorbers in the lensed
Lynx Arc Nebula at z=3.36, which present similar N(CIV)/N(HI) ratios. We find
that hot stars from a powerful starburst, or a metagalactic background
radiation (MBR) in which stars dominate over quasars, are equally successful in
producing the observed N(CIV)/N(HI), assuming subsolar absorber metallicities.
These softer SEDs eliminate the factor 1000 difference in metallicity between
the two absorbers encountered in earlier work assuming a powerlaw SED. The
detected level of continuum flux in 0943-242 is consistent with stellar
ionization. If the MBR is responsible for the ionization of the radio galaxy
absorbing shells, their radii (if spherical) would be large (> 100 kpc) and
their mass would be huge (>1E12 M_Sun), implying that a feedback event within
the radiogalaxy has expelled more baryonic material than left within it. If, as
we believe more likely, stellar sources within the radiogalaxy are responsible
for the absorber's ionization, smaller radii of ~25 kpc and much smaller masses
(~1E8-1E10 M_Sun) are inferred. This radius is consistent with the observed
transition in radio source size between smaller sources where strong HI
absorption is almost ubiquitous, and the larger sources where it is mostly
lacking. Finally, we outline additional absorption line diagnostics which could
further constrain the properties of the haloes and their ionization sources.