The notion of treewidth plays an important role in theoretical and practical
studies of graph problems. It has been recognized that, especially in practical
environments, when computing the treewidth of a graph it is invaluable to first
apply an array of preprocessing rules that simplify and shrink it. This work
seeks to prove rigorous performance guarantees for such preprocessing rules,
both known and new ones, by studying them in the framework of kernelization
from parameterized complexity.
  It is known that the NP-complete problem of determining whether a given graph
G has treewidth at most k admits no polynomial-time preprocessing algorithm
that reduces any input instance to size polynomial in k, unless NP is in
coNP/poly and the polynomial hierarchy collapses to its third level. In this
paper we therefore consider structural graph measures larger than treewidth,
and determine whether efficient preprocessing can shrink the instance size to a
polynomial in such a parameter value.
  We prove that given an instance (G,k) of treewidth we can efficiently reduce
its size to O(fvs(G)^4) vertices, where fvs(G) is the size of a minimum
feedback vertex set in G. We can also prove a size reduction to O(vc(G)^3)
vertices, where vc(G) is the size of a minimum vertex cover. Phrased in the
language of parameterized complexity, we show that Treewidth has a polynomial
kernel when parameterized by the size of a given feedback vertex set, and also
by the size of a vertex cover. In contrast we show that Treewidth parameterized
by the vertex-deletion distance to a single clique, and Weighted Treewidth
parameterized by the size of a vertex cover, do not admit polynomial
kernelizations unless NP is in coNP/poly.