Given an ensemble of autonomous agents and a task to achieve cooperatively,
how much do the agents need to know about the state of the ensemble and about
the task in order to achieve it? We introduce new methods to understand these
aspects of decentralized control. Precisely, we introduce a framework to
capture what agents with partial information can achieve by cooperating and
illustrate its use by deriving results about global stabilization of directed
formations. This framework underscores the need to differentiate the knowledge
an agent has about the task to accomplish from the knowledge an agent has about
the current state of the system. The control of directed formations has proven
to be more difficult than initially thought, as is exemplified by the lack of
global result for formations with n \geq 4 agents. We established in part I
that the space of planar formations has a non-trivial global topology. We
propose here an extension of the notion of global stability which, because it
acknowledges this non-trivial topology, can be applied to the study of
formation control. We then develop a framework that reduces the question of
whether feedback with partial information can stabilize the system to whether
two sets of functions intersect. We apply this framework to the study of a
directed formation with n = 4 agents and show that the agents do not have
enough information to implement locally stabilizing feedback laws.
Additionally, we show that feedback laws that respect the information flow
cannot stabilize a target configuration without stabilizing other, unwanted
configurations.