This paper deals with the Nash problem, which claims that there are as many
families of arcs on a singular germ of surface $U$ as there are essential
components of the exceptional divisor in the desingularisation of this
singularity. Let $\mathcal{H}=\bigcup \bar{N_\alpha}$ be a particular
decomposition of the set of arcs on $U$, described later on. We give two new
conditions to insure that $\bar{N_\alpha}\not \subset \bar{N_\beta}$, $\alpha
\not = \beta$; more precisely,for the first one, we claim that if there exists
$f \in {\mathcal{O}}_{U}$ such that $ord_{E_\alpha}(f)<ord_{E_\beta}(f)$, where
$E_\alpha, E_\beta$ are exceptional divisors of the desingularisation, then
$\bar{N_\alpha}\not \subset \bar{N_\beta}$. The second condition, used when the
singularity is rational and of surface, is the following:let $(S,s)$ et
$(S',s')$ be two rational surface singularities so that there exist a dominant
and birational morphism $\pi$ from $(S,s)$ to $(S',s')$;then,let $E_\alpha,
E_\beta$ be two essential components of the exceptional divisors in the minimal
desingularisation of $(S,s)$, such that their image by $\pi$, $E'_\alpha$ and
$E'_\beta$, are exceptional divisor for $(S',s')$; if
$\bar{N'_\alpha}(S',s')\not \subset \bar{N'_\beta}(S',s')$ then
$\bar{N_\alpha}(S,s)\not \subset \bar{N_\beta}(S,s)$. These two conditions are
simple, but it allows us to prove quite directly the conjecture for the
rational minimal surface singularities, using the decomposition of minimal
suface singularities into cyclic quotient singularities of type $A_n$. A proof
of the conjecture for these singularities has already been given by Ana
Reguera.