The \emph{graph realization problem} is to find for given nonnegative
integers $a_1,\dots,a_n$ a simple graph (no loops or multiple edges) such that
each vertex $v_i$ has degree $a_i.$ Given pairs of nonnegative integers
$(a_1,b_1),\dots,(a_n,b_n),$ (i) the \emph{bipartite realization problem} ask
whether there is a bipartite graph (no loops or multiple edges) such that
vectors $(a_1,...,a_n)$ and $(b_1,...,b_n)$ correspond to the lists of degrees
in the two partite sets, (ii) the \emph{digraph realization problem} is to find
a digraph (no loops or multiple arcs) such that each vertex $v_i$ has indegree
$a_i$ and outdegree $b_i.$\\ The classic literature provides characterizations
for the existence of such realizations that are strongly related to the concept
of majorization. Aigner and Triesch (1994) extended this approach to a more
general result for graphs, leading to an efficient realization algorithm and a
short and simple proof for the Erd\H{o}s-Gallai Theorem. We extend this
approach to the bipartite realization problem and the digraph realization
problem.\\ Our main result is the connection between majorization and the
number of realizations for a degree list in all three problems. We show: if
degree list $S'$ majorizes $S$ in a certain sense, then $S$ possesses more
realizations than $S'.$ We prove that constant lists possess the largest number
of realizations for fixed $n$ and a fixed number of arcs $m$ when $n$ divides
$m.$ So-called \emph{minconvex lists} for graphs and bipartite graphs or
\emph{opposed minconvex lists} for digraphs maximize the number of realizations
when $n$ does not divide $m$.