This paper focuses on the 1-to-K broadcast packet erasure channel (PEC),
which is a generalization of the broadcast binary erasure channel from the
binary symbol to that of arbitrary finite fields GF(q) with sufficiently large
q. We consider the setting in which the source node has instant feedback of the
channel outputs of the K receivers after each transmission. The capacity region
of the 1-to-K PEC with COF was previously known only for the case K=2. Such a
setting directly models network coded packet transmission in the downlink
direction with integrated feedback mechanisms (such as Automatic Repeat reQuest
(ARQ)).
  The main results of this paper are: (i) The capacity region for general
1-to-3 broadcast PECs, and (ii) The capacity region for two types of 1-to-$K$
broadcast PECs: the symmetric PECs, and the spatially independent PECs with
one-sided fairness constraints. This paper also develops (iii) A pair of outer
and inner bounds of the capacity region for arbitrary 1-to-K broadcast PECs,
which can be easily evaluated by any linear programming solver. The proposed
inner bound is proven by a new class of intersession network coding schemes,
termed the packet evolution schemes, which is based on the concept of code
alignment in GF(q) that is in parallel with the interference alignment
techniques for the Euclidean space. Extensive numerical experiments show that
the outer and inner bounds meet for almost all broadcast PECs encountered in
practical scenarios and thus effectively bracket the capacity of general 1-to-K
broadcast PECs with COF.