A conjecture made by Lapidoth, Shamai and Wigger at Allerton 2005 (also an
open problem presented at ITA 2006) states that the DoF of a 2 user broadcast
channel, where the transmitter is equipped with 2 antennas and each user is
equipped with 1 antenna, must collapse under finite precision CSIT. In this
work we prove that the conjecture is true in all non-degenerate settings (e.g.,
where the probability density function of unknown channel coefficients exists
and is bounded). The DoF collapse even when perfect channel knowledge for one
user is available to the transmitter. This also settles a related recent
conjecture by Tandon et al. The key to our proof is a bound on the number of
codewords that can cast the same image (within noise distortion) at the
undesired receiver whose channel is subject to finite precision CSIT, while
remaining resolvable at the desired receiver whose channel is precisely known
by the transmitter. We are also able to generalize the result along two
directions. First, if the peak of the probability density function is allowed
to scale as O(P^(\alpha/2)), representing the concentration of probability
density (improving CSIT) due to, e.g., quantized feedback at rate
(\alpha/2)\log(P), then the DoF are bounded above by 1+\alpha, which is also
achievable under quantized feedback. Second, we generalize the result to the K
user broadcast channel with K antennas at the transmitter and a single antenna
at each receiver. Here also the DoF collapse under non-degenerate channel
uncertainty. The result directly implies a collapse of DoF to unity under
non-degenerate channel uncertainty for the general K-user interference and MxN
user X networks as well.