We report ALMA and SMA observations of the luminous infrared merger NGC 3256,
the most luminous galaxy within z=0.01. Both of the two merger nuclei separated
by 5" (0.8 kpc) on the sky have a compact concentration of molecular gas, i.e.,
nuclear disks with Sigma_mol > 10^3 Msun pc^-2. The one at the northern nucleus
is face-on while the southern nuclear disk is almost edge-on. The northern
nucleus is more massive and has molecular arcs and spiral arms around. The
high-velocity molecular gas previously found in the system is resolved to two
molecular outflows associated with each of the two nuclei. The molecular
outflow from the northern nuclear disk is part of a starburst-driven superwind
seen nearly pole on. Its maximum velocity is >750 km/s and its mass outflow
rate is estimated to be > 60 Msun/yr for a conversion factor
N_{H_2}/I_{CO(1-0)}=1x10^20 cm^-2/(K km/s). The outflow from the southern
nucleus is a highly collimated bipolar molecular jet seen nearly edge-on. Its
line-of-sight velocity increases with distance out to 300 pc from the southern
nucleus. Its maximum de-projected velocity is ~2000 km/s for the estimated
inclination and should exceed 1000 km/s even allowing for its uncertainty. The
mass outflow rate is estimated to be >50 Msun/yr for this outflow. There are
possible signs that this southern outflow has been driven by a bipolar radio
jet from an AGN that became inactive very recently. The sum of these outflow
rates, although subject to the uncertainty in the molecular mass estimate,
either exceeds or compares to the total star formation rate in NGC 3256. The
feedback from nuclear activities in the form of molecular outflows is therefore
significant in the gas consumption budget, and hence evolution, of this
luminous infrared galaxy. (abridged)