Using the near-infrared integral-field spectrograph SPIFFI on the VLT, we
have studied the spatially-resolved dynamics in the z=3.2 strongly lensed
galaxy 1E0657-56 ``arc+core''. The lensing configuration suggests that the high
surface brightness ``core'' is the M=20 magnified central 1 kpc of the galaxy
(seen at a spatial resolution of about 200 pc in the source plane), whereas the
fainter ``arc'' is a more strongly magnified peripheral region of the same
galaxy at about a half-light radius, which otherwise appears to be a typical
z=3 Lyman break galaxy.
  The overall shape of the position-velocity diagram resembles the ``rotation
curves'' of the inner few kpcs of nearby L* spiral galaxies. The projected
velocities rise rapidly to 75 km/s within the core. This implies a dynamical
mass of M_dyn = 10^9.3 M_sun within the central kpc, and suggests that in this
system the equivalent of the mass of a present-day L* bulge at the same radius
was already in place by z>=3. Approximating the circular velocity of the halo
by the measured asymptotic velocity of the rotation curve, we estimate a dark
matter halo mass of M_halo = 10^11.7 +/- 0.3, in good agreement with
large-scale clustering studies of Lyman break galaxies. The baryonic collapse
fraction is low compared to actively star-forming ``BX'' and low-redshift
galaxies around z=2, perhaps implying comparatively less gas infall to small
radii or efficient feedback. Even more speculatively, the high central mass
density might indicate highly dissipative gas collapse in very early stages of
galaxy evolution, in approximate agreement with what is expected for
``inside-out'' galaxy formation models.