Given a digraph $G = (V_G, A_G)$, a \emph{branching} in $G$ is a set of arcs
$B \subseteq A_G$ such that the underlying undirected graph spanned by $B$ is
acyclic and each node in $G$ is entered (\emph{covered}) by at most one arc
from $B$. Tarjan developed efficient algorithms (based on the cycle contraction
technique) for the following problem: given a digraph $G$ with a \emph{weight}
function $w \colon A_G \to \R$, find a branching $B$ of the minimum weight
$w(B) := \sum_{a \in B} w(a)$ among all branchings with the maximum ardinality
$\abs{B}$. We generalize this notion as follows: for a digraph $G$ and a
matroid $\calM_V$ on $V_G$, a \emph{matroid branching} in $G$ w.r.t. $\calM_V$
is a branching in $G$ such that the covered set of nodes is independent w.r.t.
$\calM_V$. The unweighted (cardinality) problem consists in finding a matroid
branching $B$ with $\abs{B}$ maximum. We show that the general cycle
contraction approach is applicable to this problem and leads to an efficient
algorithm (provided that an oracle is given for testing independence in the
matroids arising as the result of the contraction procedure). In the weighted
version we are looking for a matroid branching $B$ that minimizes $w(B)$ (for a
given weight function $w \colon A_G \to \R$) among all matroid branchings of
the maximum cardinality. We show that if $\calM_V$ is a rainbow matroid (that
is, nodes of $G$ are marked with colors and it is forbidden to cover more than
one node of any color), then there exists an $O(\min(n^2, m \log n))$ method,
matching the complexity of Tarjan's algorithm (here $n := \abs{V_G}$, $m :=
\abs{A_G}$).