Let F be a family of subsets of {1,2,...,n}. The width-degree of an element
x in at least one member of F is the width of the family {U in F | x in U}. If
F has maximum width-degree at most k, then F is locally k-wide. Bounds on the
size of locally k-wide families of sets are established. If F is locally
k-wide and centered (every U in F has an element which does not belong to any
member of F incomparable to U), then |F| <= (k+1)(n-k/2); this bound is best
possible. Nearly exact bounds, linear in n and k, on the size of locally
k-wide families of arcs or segments are determined. If F is any locally k-wide
family of sets, then |F| is linearly bounded in n. The proof of this result
involves an analysis of the combinatorics of antichains. Let P be a poset and
L a semilattice (or an intersection-closed family of sets). The P-size of L is
|L^P|. For u in L, the P-density of u is the ratio |[u)^P|/|L^P|. The density
of u is given by the [1]-density of u. Let p be the number of filters of P. L
has the P-density property iff there is a join-irreducible a in L such that
the P-density of a is at most 1/p Which non-trivial semilattices have the
P-density property? For P=[1], it has been conjectured that the answer is:
"all" (the union-closed sets conjecture). Certain subdirect products of
lower-semimodular lattices and, for P=[n], of geometric lattices have the
P-density property in a strong sense. This generalizes some previously known
results. A fixed lattice has the [n]-density property if n is large enough.
The density of a generator U of a union-closed family of sets L containing the
empty set is estimated. The estimate depends only on the local properties of L
at U. If L is generated by sets of size at most two, then there is a generator
U of L with estimated density at most 1/2.