The aim of this study is to set up statistical quality control for monitoring
of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) delivery error using machine log
data. Eclipse and Clinac iX linac with the RapidArc system (Varian Medical
Systems, Palo Alto, USA) is used for delivery of the VMAT plan. During the
delivery of the RapidArc fields, the machine determines the delivered motor
units (MUs) and gantry angle position accuracy and the standard deviations of
MU (sigma_MU; dosimetric error) and gantry angle (sigma_GA; geometric error)
are displayed on the console monitor after completion of the RapidArc delivery.
In the present study, first, the log data was analyzed to confirm its validity
and usability; then, statistical process control (SPC) was applied to monitor
the sigma_MU and sigma_GA in a timely manner for all RapidArc fields: a total
of 195 arc fields for 99 patients. The sigma_MU and sigma_GA were determined
twice for all fields, that is, first during the patient-specific plan QA and
then again during the first treatment. The sigma_MU and sigma_GA time series
were quite stable irrespective of the treatment site; however, the sigma_GA was
strongly dependent on the gantry rotation speed. The sigma_GA of the RapidArc
delivery for stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) was smaller than that
for the typical VMAT. Therefore, SPC was applied for SBRT cases and general
cases respectively. Moreover, the accuracy of the potential meter of gantry
rotation is important, since the sigma_GA can be dramatically changed due to
its condition. By applying SPC to the sigma_MU and sigma_GA, we could monitor
the delivery error efficiently. However, the upper and lower limits of SPC need
to be determined carefully with full knowledge of the machine and log data.