This paper presents a unique approach to connecting requirements engineering
(RE) activities into a process framework that can be employed to obtain quality
requirements with reduced expenditures of effort and cost. We propose a
two-phase model that is novel in that it introduces the concept of verification
and validation (V&V) early in the requirements life cycle. In the first phase,
we perform V&V immediately following the elicitation of requirements for each
individually distinct system function. Because the first phase focuses on
capturing smaller sets of related requirements iteratively, each corresponding
V&V activity is better focused for detecting and correcting errors in each
requirement set. In the second phase, a complementary verification activity is
initiated; the corresponding focus is on the quality of linkages between
requirements sets rather than on the requirements within the sets.
Consequently, this approach reduces the effort in verification and enhances the
focus on the verification task. Our approach, unlike other models, has a
minimal time delay between the elicitation of requirements and the execution of
the V&V activities. Because of this short time gap, the stakeholders have a
clearer recollection of the requirements, their context and rationale; this
enhances the stakeholder feedback. Furthermore, our model includes activities
that closely align with the effective RE processes employed in the software
industry. Thus, our approach facilitates a better understanding of the flow of
requirements, and provides guidance for the implementation of the RE process.