In this work we study the contribution of magnetic fields to the Sunyaev
Zeldovich (SZ) effect in the intracluster medium. In particular we calculate
the SZ angular power spectrum and the central temperature decrement. The effect
of magnetic fields is included in the hydrostatic equilibrium equation by
splitting the Lorentz force into two terms one being the force due to magnetic
pressure which acts outwards and the other being magnetic tension which acts
inwards. A perturbative approach is adopted to solve for the gas density
profile for weak magnetic fields (< 4 micro G}). This leads to an enhancement
of the gas density in the central regions for nearly radial magnetic field
configurations. Previous works had considered the force due to magnetic
pressure alone which is the case only for a special set of field
configurations. However, we see that there exists possible sets of
configurations of ICM magnetic fields where the force due to magnetic tension
will dominate. Subsequently, this effect is extrapolated for typical field
strengths (~ 10 micro G) and scaling arguments are used to estimate the angular
power due to secondary anisotropies at cluster scales. In particular we find
that it is possible to explain the excess power reported by CMB experiments
like CBI, BIMA, ACBAR at l > 2000 with sigma_8 ~ 0.8 (WMAP 5 year data) for
typical cluster magnetic fields. In addition we also see that the magnetic
field effect on the SZ temperature decrement is more pronounced for low mass
clusters (<T> ~ 2 keV). Future SZ detections of low mass clusters at few arc
second resolution will be able to probe this effect more precisely. Thus, it
will be instructive to explore the implications of this model in greater detail
in future works.