We compare the statistical properties of giant gravitationally lensed arcs
produced in matched simulated and observed cluster samples. The observed sample
consists of 10 X-ray selected clusters at redshifts z ~ 0.2 imaged with HST by
Smith et al. The simulated dataset is produced by lensing the Hubble Deep
Field, which serves as a background source image, with 150 realizations
(different projections and shifts) of five simulated z = 0.2 clusters from a
LambdaCDM N-body simulation. The real and simulated clusters have similar
masses, the real photometric redshift is used for each background source, and
all the observational effects influencing arc detection in the real dataset,
including light from cluster galaxies, are simulated in the artificial dataset.
We develop, and apply to both datasets, an objective automatic arc-finding
algorithm. We find consistent arc statistics in the real and in the simulated
sample, with an average of ~ 1 detected giant (length to width ratio >= 10) arc
per cluster and ~ 0.2 giant luminous (R<22.3 mag) arc per cluster. Thus, taking
into account a realistic source population and observational effects, the
clusters predicted by LambdaCDM have the same arc-production efficiency as the
observed clusters. If, as suggested by other studies, there is a discrepancy
between the predicted and the observed total number of arcs on the sky, it must
be the result of differences between the redshift dependent cluster mass
functions, and not due to differences in the lensing efficiency of the most
massive clusters.