There are several Teichm\"uller spaces associated to a surface of infinite
topological type, after the choice of a particular basepoint (a complex or a
hyperbolic structure on the surface). These spaces include the quasiconformal
Teichm\"uller space, the length spectrum Teichm\"uller space, the
Fenchel-Nielsen Teichm\"uller space, and there are others. In general, these
spaces are set-theoretically different. An important question is therefore to
understand relations between these spaces. Each of these spaces is equipped
with its own metric, and under some hypotheses, there are inclusions between
these spaces. In this paper, we obtain local metric comparison results on these
inclusions, namely, we show that the inclusions are locally bi-Lipschitz under
certain hypotheses. To obtain these results, we use some hyperbolic geometry
estimates that give new results also for surfaces of finite type. We recall
that in the case of a surface of finite type, all these Teichm\"uller spaces
coincide setwise. In the case of a surface of finite type with no boundary
components (and possibly with punctures), we show that the restriction of the
identity map to any thick part of Teichm\"uller space is globally bi-Lipschitz
with respect to the length spectrum metric and the classical Teichm\"uller
metric on the domain and on the range respectively. In the case of a surface of
finite type with punctures and boundary components, there is a metric on the
Teichm\"uller space which we call the arc metric, whose definition is analogous
to the length spectrum metric, but which uses lengths of geodesic arcs instead
of lengths of closed geodesics. We show that the restriction of the identity
map restricted to any "relative thick" part of Teichm\"uller space is globally
bi-Lipschitz, with respect to any of the three metrics: the length spectrum
metric, the Teichm\"uller metric and the arc metric on the domain and on the
range.