We present results obtained from a set of cosmological hydrodynamic
simulations of galaxy clusters, aimed at comparing predictions with
observational data on the diversity between cool-core and non-cool-core
clusters. Our simulations include the effects of stellar and AGN feedback and
are based on an improved version of the Smoothed-Particle-Hydrodynamics code
GADGET-3, which ameliorates gas mixing and better captures gas-dynamical
instabilities by including a suitable artificial thermal diffusion. In this
Letter, we focus our analysis on the entropy profiles, our primary diagnostic
to classify the degree of cool-coreness of clusters, and on the iron profiles.
In keeping with observations, our simulated clusters display a variety of
behaviors in entropy profiles: they range from steadily decreasing profiles at
small radii, characteristic of cool-core systems, to nearly flat core
isentropic profiles, characteristic of non cool-core systems. Using
observational criteria to distinguish between the two classes of objects, we
find them to occur in similar proportions in simulations and in observations.
Furthermore, we also find that simulated cool-core clusters have profiles of
iron abundance that are steeper than those of non-cool-core clusters, also in
agreement with observational results. We show that the capability of our
simulations to generate a realistic cool-core structure in the cluster
population is due to AGN feedback and artificial thermal diffusion: their
combined action allows to naturally distribute the energy extracted from
super-massive black holes and to compensate the radiative losses of low-entropy
gas with short cooling time residing in the cluster core.