Recent findings hint that the winds of massive stars with poorer metallicity
than the SMC may be stronger than predicted by theory. Besides calling the
paradigm of radiation driven winds into question, this result would impact the
predicted evolutionary paths of massive stars, their calculated ionizing
radiation and mechanical feedback and the role these objects play at different
stages of the Universe. The field needs a systematic study of the winds of a
large set of very metal poor massive stars, but the sampling of spectral types
is particularly poor in the very early types. This paper's goal is to increase
the list of known O-type stars in the dwarf irregular galaxy IC1613, whose
metallicity is smaller than the SMC's by roughly a factor 2.
  Using the reddening-free Q-parameter, evolutionary masses and GALEX
photometry, we built a list of very likely O-type stars. We obtained
low-resolution R~1000 GTC-OSIRIS spectra for a fraction of them and performed
spectral classification, the only way to unequivocally confirm candidate
OB-stars. We have discovered 8 new O-type stars in IC1613, increasing the list
of 7 known O-type stars in this galaxy by a factor of 2. The best quality
spectra were analyzed with the model atmosphere code FASTWIND to derive stellar
parameters. We present the first spectral type -- effective temperature scale
for O-stars beyond the SMC. The derived effective temperature calibration for
IC1613 is about 1000K hotter than the scale at the SMC. The analysis of an
increased list of O-type stars will be crucial for the studies of the winds and
feedback of massive stars at all ages of the Universe.