In the recent paper [1] an elegant analytic criterion for incremental output
feedback passivity (iOFP) of cyclic feedback systems (CFS) has been reported,
assuming that the constituent subsystems are incrementally output strictly
passive (iOSP). This result has also been applied to networks of linearly
coupled biochemical oscillators in order to derive conditions on their coupling
strengths to achieve global state synchronization. A typical class of CFS
systems is used to model biochemical oscillators, describing dynamics of
genetic pacemakers and hormonal cycles. These oscillators were named after
Brian Goodwin, who first used the model to study oscillations in a single gene.
We show in the present paper that for Goodwin's oscillators, where the rates of
individual reactions obey the Mikhaelis-Menten law, the synchronization
criterion from [1] cannot be directly applied, since this criterion relies on
the implicit assumption of the solution boundedness, dictated also by the
chemical feasibility (the state variables stand for the chemical concentrations
of reagents). Furthermore to test the synchronization condition from [1], one
needs to know an explicit bound for a solution, which generally cannot be
guaranteed using linear balanced protocols. To address this issue, we further
propose to add a special "saturation-like" nonlinear map to the controller from
[1], which guarantees nonnegative and bounded input. We show that if these
nonlinearities satisfy some technical condition, the system's solution remains
nonnegative and bounded, staying in a known compact set. We prove the
synchronization among oscillators under such a protocol for sufficiently strong
couplings.