The two-user multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) fast-fading interference
channel (IC) with an arbitrary number of antennas at each of the four terminals
is studied under the settings of Shannon feedback, limited Shannon feedback,
and output feedback, wherein all or certain channel matrices and outputs, or
just the channel outputs, respectively, are available to the transmitters with
a finite delay. While for most numbers of antennas at the four terminals, it is
shown that the DoF regions with Shannon feedback and for the limited Shannon
feedback settings considered here are identical, and equal to the DoF region
with just delayed channel state information (CSIT), it is shown that this is
not always the case. For a specific class of MIMO ICs characterized by a
certain relationship between the numbers of antennas at the four nodes, the DoF
regions with Shannon and the limited Shannon feedback settings, while again
being identical, are strictly bigger than the DoF region with just delayed
CSIT. To realize these DoF gains with Shannon or limited Shannon feedback, a
new retrospective interference alignment scheme is developed wherein
transmitter cooperation made possible by output feedback in addition to delayed
CSIT is employed to effect a more efficient form of interference alignment than
is feasible with previously known schemes that use just delayed CSIT. The DoF
region for just output feedback, in which each transmitter has delayed
knowledge of only the receivers' outputs, is also obtained for all but a class
of MIMO ICs that satisfy one of two inequalities involving the numbers of
antennas.