Successfully reproducing the galaxy luminosity function and the bimodality in
the galaxy distribution requires a mechanism that can truncate star formation
in massive haloes. Current models of galaxy formation consider two such
truncation mechanisms: strangulation, which acts on satellite galaxies, and AGN
feedback, which predominantly affects central galaxies. The efficiencies of
these processes set the blue fraction of galaxies as function of galaxy
luminosity and halo mass. In this paper we use a galaxy group catalogue
extracted from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) to determine these
fractions. To demonstrate the potential power of this data as a benchmark for
galaxy formation models, we compare the results to the semi-analytical model
for galaxy formation of Croton et al. (2006). Although this model accurately
fits the global statistics of the galaxy population, as well as the shape of
the conditional luminosity function, there are significant discrepancies when
the blue fraction of galaxies as a function of mass and luminosity is compared
between the observations and the model. In particular, the model predicts (i)
too many faint satellite galaxies in massive haloes, (ii) a blue fraction of
satellites that is much too low, and (iii) a blue fraction of centrals that is
too high and with an inverted luminosity dependence. In the same order, we
argue that these discrepancies owe to (i) the neglect of tidal stripping in the
semi-analytical model, (ii) the oversimplified treatment of strangulation, and
(iii) improper modeling of dust extinction and/or AGN feedback. The data
presented here will prove useful to test and calibrate future models of galaxy
formation and in particular to discriminate between various models for AGN
feedback and other star formation truncation mechanisms.