We discuss an extended set of Tree+SPH simulations of galaxy clusters, with
the goal of investigating the interplay between numerical resolution effects
and star-formation/feedback processes. The simulated clusters span the mass
range (0.1-2.3) 10^{15}Msun/h, with mass resolution varying by several decades.
At the highest achieved resolution, we resolve the virial region of a
Virgo-like cluster with more than 2 million gas particles and with at least as
many dark-matter (DM) particles. Our resolution study confirms that, in the
absence of an efficient feedback mechanism, runaway cooling leads to about 35
per cent of baryons in clusters to be locked up in long lived stars at our
highest resolution, with no evidence of convergence. However, including
feedback causes the fraction of cooled baryons to converge at about 15 per cent
already at modest resolution. Feedback also stabilizes other gas-related
quantities, such as radial profiles of entropy, gas density and temperature,
against variations due to changes in resolution. We also investigate the
influence of the gravitational force softening length, and that of numerical
heating of the gas induced by two-body encounters between DM and lighter gas
particles. We show that simulations where more DM than gas particles are used,
show a significantly enhanced efficiency of star formation at z>3. Our results
are important for establishing and delineating the regime of numerical
reliability of the present generation of hydrodynamical simulations of galaxy
clusters.