The frequency of giant arcs - highly distorted and strongly gravitationally
lensed background galaxies - is a powerful test for cosmological models.
Previous comparisons of arc statistics for the currently favored concordance
cosmological model (a flat lambda-dominated universe) with observations have
shown an apparently large discrepancy. We present here new ray-shooting
results, based on a high resolution (1024^3 particles in a 320 Mpc/h box)
large-scale structure simulation normalized to the WMAP observations. We follow
light rays through a pseudo-3D matter distribution approximated by up to 38
lens planes, and evaluate the occurrence of arcs for various source redshifts.
We find that the frequency of strongly lensed background sources is a steep
function of source redshift: the optical depth for giant arcs increases by a
factor of five when the background sources are moved from redshift z_s = 1.0 to
z_s = 1.5. This is a consequence of a moderate decrease of the critical surface
mass density for lensing, combined with the very steep cluster mass function at
the high mass end. Our results are consistent with those of Bartelmann et al.
(1998) if we - as they did - restrict all sources to be exactly at z_s = 1. But
if we allow for a more realistic distribution of source redshifts extending to
or beyond z_s > 1.5, the apparent discrepancy vanishes: the frequency of arcs
is increased by about a factor of ten as compared to previous estimates, and
results in roughly one arc per 20 square degrees over the sky. This prediction
for an LCDM model is then in good agreement with the observed frequency of
arcs. Hence we consider the ``missing arc'' problem for a concordance LCDM
cosmology to be solved.