We have used public data from the Next Generation Virgo Survey (NGVS) to
investigate the dwarf galaxy population of the Virgo cluster beyond what has
previously been discovered. We initially mask and smooth the data, and then use
the object detection algorithm Sextractor to make our initial dwarf galaxy
selection. All candidates are then visually inspected to remove artefacts and
duplicates. We derive Sextractor parameters to best select low surface
brightness galaxies using g band central surface brightness values of 22.5 to
26.0 mag sq arc sec and exponential scale lengths of 3.0 - 10.0 arc sec to
identify 443 cluster dwarf galaxies - 303 of which are new detections. These
new detections have a surface density that decreases with radius from the
cluster centre. We also apply our selection algorithm to 'background',
non-cluster, fields and find zero detections. In combination, this leads us to
believe that we have isolated a cluster dwarf galaxy population. The range of
objects we are able to detect is limited because smaller scale sized galaxies
are confused with the background, while larger galaxies are split into numerous
smaller objects by the detection algorithm. Using data from previous surveys
combined with our data, we find a faint end slope to the luminosity function of
-1.35+/-0.03, which does not significantly differ to what has previously been
found for the Virgo cluster, but is a little steeper than the slope for field
galaxies. There is no evidence for a faint end slope steep enough to correspond
with galaxy formation models, unless those models invoke either strong feedback
processes or use warm dark matter.