We present a theoretical model for primordial star formation. First we
describe the structure of the initial gas cores as virialized,
quasi-hydrostatic objects in accord with recent high resolution numerical
studies. The accretion rate can then be related to characteristic densities and
temperatures that are set by the cooling properties of molecular hydrogen. We
allow for rotation of the gas core, assuming angular momentum conservation
inside the sonic point of the flow. In the typical case, most mass then reaches
the star via an accretion disk. The structure of the inner region of this disk
is described with the standard theory of viscous disks, but with allowance for
the substantial energies absorbed in ionizing and dissociating the gas. The
size of the protostar and its luminosity depend upon the accretion rate, the
energetics of the accreting gas, and the ability of the radiation to escape
from the stellar accretion shock. We combine these models for the infall rate,
inner disk structure, and protostellar evolution to predict the radiation field
that is the basis for radiative feedback processes acting against infall (Paper
II). For realistic initial angular momenta, the photosphere of the protostar is
much smaller and hotter than in the spherical case, leading to stronger
radiative feedback at earlier stages in the evolution. In particular, once the
star is older than its Kelvin-Helmholtz time, contraction towards the main
sequence causes a rapid increase in ionizing and far-ultraviolet luminosity at
masses ~30Msun in the fiducial case. Since the cores out of which the first
stars formed were much more massive than 30Msun and since feedback is
dynamically unimportant at lower masses, we conclude that the first stars
should have had masses >~30Msun.