We present a set of hydrodynamical/Nbody controlled simulations of isolated
gas rich galaxies that self-consistently include SN feedback and a detailed
chemical evolution model, both tested in cosmological simulations. The initial
conditions are motivated by the observed star forming galaxies at z ~ 2-3. We
find that the presence of a multiphase interstellar media in our models
promotes the growth of disc instability favouring the formation of clumps which
in general, are not easily disrupted on timescales compared to the migration
time. We show that stellar clumps migrate towards the central region and
contribute to form a classical-like bulge with a Sersic index, n > 2. Our
physically-motivated Supernova feedback has a mild influence on clump survival
and evolution, partially limiting the mass growth of clumps as the energy
released per Supernova event is increased, with the consequent flattening of
the bulge profile. This regulation does not prevent the building of a
classical-like bulge even for the most energetic feedback tested. Our Supernova
feedback model is able to establish a self-regulated star formation, producing
mass-loaded outflows and stellar age spreads comparable to observations. We
find that the bulge formation by clumps may coexit with other channels of bulge
assembly such as bar and mergers. Our results suggest that galactic bulges
could be interpreted as composite systems with structural components and
stellar populations storing archaeological information of the dynamical history
of their galaxy.