The DEML316 system contains two shells, both with the characteristic
signatures of supernova remnants (SNRs). We analyze Chandra and XMM-Newton data
for DEML316, investigating its spatial and spectral X-ray features. Our Chandra
observations resolve the structure of the northeastern SNR (Shell A) as a
bright inner ring and a set of "arcs" surrounded by fainter diffuse emission.
The spectrum is well fit by a thermal plasma model with temperature ~1.4 keV;
we do not find significant spectral differences for different regions of this
SNR. The southwestern SNR (Shell B) exhibits an irregular X-ray outline, with a
brighter interior ring of emission including a bright knot of emission. Overall
the emission of the SNR is well described by a thermal plasma of temperature
~0.6 keV. The Bright Knot, however, is spectrally distinct from the rest of the
SNR, requiring the addition of a high-energy spectral component consistent with
a power-law spectrum of photon index 1.6--1.8.
  We confirm the findings of Nishiuchi et al. (2001) that the spectra of these
shells are notably different, with Shell A requiring a high iron abundance for
a good spectral fit, implying a Type Ia origin. We further explicitly compare
abundance ratios to model predictions for Type Ia and Type II supernovae. The
low ratios for Shell A (O/Fe of 1.5 and Ne/Fe of 0.2) and the high ratios for
Shell B (O/Fe of 30--130 and Ne/Fe of 8--16) are consistent with Type Ia and
Type II origins, respectively. The difference between the SNR progenitor types
casts some doubt on the suggestion that these SNRs are interacting with one
another.