We present a light curve analysis of fundamental-mode Galactic and Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC) Cepheids based on the Fourier decomposition technique.
We have compiled light curve data for Galactic and LMC Cepheids in optical
({\it VI}), near-infrared ({\it JHK}$_s$) and mid-infrared (3.6 $\&$
4.5-$\mu$m) bands from the literature and determined the variation of their
Fourier parameters as a function of period and wavelength. We observed a
decrease in Fourier amplitude parameters and an increase in Fourier phase
parameters with increasing wavelengths at a given period. We also found a
decrease in the skewness and acuteness parameters as a function of wavelength
at a fixed period. We applied a binning method to analyze the progression of
the mean Fourier parameters with period and wavelength. We found that for
periods longer than about 20 days, the values of the Fourier amplitude
parameters increase sharply for shorter wavelengths as compared to wavelengths
longer than the $J$-band. We observed the variation of the Hertzsprung
progression with wavelength. The central period of the Hertzsprung progression
was found to increase with wavelength in the case of the Fourier amplitude
parameters and decrease with increasing wavelength in the case of phase
parameters. We also observed a small variation of the central period of the
progression between the Galaxy and LMC, presumably related to metallicity
effects. These results will provide useful constraints for stellar pulsation
codes that incorporate stellar atmosphere models to produce Cepheid light
curves in various bands.