We obtain long series expansions for the bulk, surface and corner free
energies for several two-dimensional statistical models, by combining Enting's
finite lattice method (FLM) with exact transfer matrix enumerations. The models
encompass all integrable curves of the Q-state Potts model on the square and
triangular lattices, including the antiferromagnetic transition curves and the
Ising model (Q=2) at temperature T, as well as a fully-packed O(n) type loop
model on the square lattice. The expansions are around the trivial fixed points
at infinite Q, n or 1/T.
  By using a carefully chosen expansion parameter, q << 1, all expansions turn
out to be of the form \prod_{k=1}^\infty (1-q^k)^{\alpha_k + k \beta_k}, where
the coefficients \alpha_k and \beta_k are periodic functions of k. Thanks to
this periodicity property we can conjecture the form of the expansions to all
orders (except in a few cases where the periodicity is too large). These
expressions are then valid for all 0 <= q < 1.
  We analyse in detail the q \to 1^- limit in which the models become critical.
In this limit the divergence of the corner free energy defines a universal term
which can be compared with the conformal field theory (CFT) predictions of
Cardy and Peschel. This allows us to deduce the asymptotic expressions for the
correlation length in several cases.
  Finally we work out the FLM formulae for the case where some of the system's
boundaries are endowed with particular (non-free) boundary conditions. We apply
this in particular to the square-lattice Potts model with Jacobsen-Saleur
boundary conditions, conjecturing the expansions of the surface and corner free
energies to arbitrary order for any integer value of the boundary interaction
parameter r. These results are in turn compared with CFT predictions.