This paper is our second step towards developing a theory of testing
monomials in multivariate polynomials. The central question is to ask whether a
polynomial represented by an arithmetic circuit has some types of monomials in
its sum-product expansion. The complexity aspects of this problem and its
variants have been investigated in our first paper by Chen and Fu (2010),
laying a foundation for further study. In this paper, we present two pairs of
algorithms. First, we prove that there is a randomized $O^*(p^k)$ time
algorithm for testing $p$-monomials in an $n$-variate polynomial of degree $k$
represented by an arithmetic circuit, while a deterministic $O^*(6.4^k + p^k)$
time algorithm is devised when the circuit is a formula, here $p$ is a given
prime number. Second, we present a deterministic $O^*(2^k)$ time algorithm for
testing multilinear monomials in $\Pi_m\Sigma_2\Pi_t\times \Pi_k\Pi_3$
polynomials, while a randomized $O^*(1.5^k)$ algorithm is given for these
polynomials. The first algorithm extends the recent work by Koutis (2008) and
Williams (2009) on testing multilinear monomials. Group algebra is exploited in
the algorithm designs, in corporation with the randomized polynomial identity
testing over a finite field by Agrawal and Biswas (2003), the deterministic
noncommunicative polynomial identity testing by Raz and Shpilka (2005) and the
perfect hashing functions by Chen {\em at el.} (2007). Finally, we prove that
testing some special types of multilinear monomial is W[1]-hard, giving
evidence that testing for specific monomials is not fixed-parameter tractable.