Pd43Ni10Cu27P0 has been investigated in its equilibrium liquid state with
incoherent, inelastic neutron scattering. As compared to simple liquids, liquid
PdNiCuP is characterized by a dense packing with a packing fraction above 0.5.
The intermediate scattering function exhibits a fast relaxation process that
precedes structural relaxation. Structural relaxation obeys a time-temperature
superposition that extends over a temperature range of 540K. The mode-coupling
theory of the liquid to glass transition (MCT) gives a consistent description
of the dynamics which governs the mass transport in liquid PdNiCuP alloys. MCT
scaling laws extrapolate to a critical temperature Tc at about 20% below the
liquidus temperature. Diffusivities derived from the mean relaxation times
compare well with Co diffusivities from recent tracer diffusion measurements
and diffsuivities calculated from viscosity via the Stokes-Einstein relation.
In contrast to simple metallic liquids, the atomic transport in dense, liquid
PdNiCuP is characterized by a drastical slowing down of dynamics on cooling, a
q^{-2} dependence of the mean relaxation times at intermediate q and a
vanishing isotope effect as a result of a highly collective transport
mechanism. At temperatures as high as 2Tc diffusion in liquid PdNiCuP is as
fast as in simple liquids at the melting point. However, the difference in the
underlying atomic transport mechanism indicates that the diffusion mechanism in
liquids is not controlled by the value of the diffusivity but rather by that of
the packing fraction.