Elliptical galaxies are believed to consist of a single population of old
stars formed together at an early epoch in the Universe, yet recent analyses of
galaxy spectra seem to indicate the presence of significant younger populations
of stars in them. The detailed physical modelling of such populations is
computationally expensive, inhibiting the detailed analysis of the several
million galaxy spectra becoming available over the next few years. Here we
present a data mining application aimed at decomposing the spectra of
elliptical galaxies into several coeval stellar populations, without the use of
detailed physical models. This is achieved by performing a linear independent
basis transformation that essentially decouples the initial problem of joint
processing of a set of correlated spectral measurements into that of the
independent processing of a small set of prototypical spectra. Two methods are
investigated: (1) A fast projection approach is derived by exploiting the
correlation structure of neighboring wavelength bins within the spectral data.
(2) A factorisation method that takes advantage of the positivity of the
spectra is also investigated. The preliminary results show that typical
features observed in stellar population spectra of different evolutionary
histories can be convincingly disentangled by these methods, despite the
absence of input physics. The success of this basis transformation analysis in
recovering physically interpretable representations indicates that this
technique is a potentially powerful tool for astronomical data mining.