How to properly understand coronal mass ejections (CMEs) viewed in
white-light coronagraphs is crucial to many relative researches in solar and
space physics. The issue is now particularly addressed in this paper through
studying the source locations of all the 1078 LASCO CMEs listed in CDAW CME
catalog during 1997 -- 1998 and their correlation with CMEs' apparent
parameters. By manually checking LASCO and EIT movies of these CMEs, we find
that, except 231 CMEs whose source locations can not be identified due to poor
data, there are 288 CMEs with location identified on the front-side solar disk,
234 CMEs appearing above solar limb, and 325 CMEs without evident eruptive
signatures in the field of view of EIT. Based on the statistical results of
CMEs' source locations, four physical issues, including (1) the missing rate of
CMEs by SOHO LASCO and EIT, (2) the mass of CMEs, (3) the causes of halo CMEs
and (4) the deflections of CMEs in the corona, are exhaustively analyzed. It is
found that (1) about 32% of front-side CMEs can not be recognized by SOHO, (2)
the brightness of a CME at any heliocentric distance is roughly positively
correlated with its speed, and the CME mass derived from the brightness is
probably overestimated, (3) both projection effect and violent eruption are the
major causes of halo CMEs, and especially for limb halo CMEs, the latter is the
primary one, (4) most CMEs deflected towards equator near the solar minimum,
and these deflections can be classified into three types, the asymmetrical
expansion, non-radial ejection, and the deflected propagation.