Graphene with high carrier mobility \mu\ is required both for graphene-based
electronic devices and for the investigation of the fundamental properties of
graphene's Dirac fermions. It is largely accepted that the mobility-limiting
factor in graphene is the Coulomb scattering off of charged impurities that
reside either on graphene or in the underlying substrate. This is true both for
traditional graphene devices on SiO2 substrates and possibly for the recently
reported high-mobility suspended and supported devices. An attractive approach
to reduce such scattering is to place graphene in an environment with high
static dielectric constant \kappa\ that would effectively screen the electric
field due to the impurities. However, experiments so far report only a modest
effect of high-\kappa\ environment on mobility. Here, we investigate the effect
of the dielectric environment of graphene by studying electrical transport in
multi-terminal graphene devices that are suspended in liquids with \kappa\
ranging from 1.9 to 33. For non-polar liquids (\kappa <5) we observe a rapid
increase of \mu\ with \kappa\ and report a record room-temperature mobility as
large as ~60,000 cm2/Vs for graphene devices in anisole (\kappa=4.3), while in
polar liquids (\kappa >18) we observe a drastic drop in mobility. We
demonstrate that non-polar liquids enhance mobility by screening charged
impurities adsorbed on graphene, while charged ions in polar liquids cause the
observed mobility suppression. Furthermore, using molecular dynamics simulation
we establish that scattering by out-of-plane flexural phonons, a dominant
scattering mechanism in suspended graphene in vacuum at room temperature, is
suppressed by the presence of liquids. We expect that our findings may provide
avenues to control and reduce carrier scattering in future graphene-based
electronic devices.