A statistical analysis of the relationship between solar energetic particles
(SEPs) and properties of solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs) is
presented. SEP events during solar cycle 23 are selected which are associated
with solar flares originating on the visible hemisphere of the Sun and at least
of magnitude M1. Taking into account all flares and CMEs that occurred during
this period, the probability for the occurrence of an SEP event near Earth is
determined. A strong rise of this probability is observed for increasing flare
intensities, more western locations, larger CME speeds and halo CMEs. The
correlations between the proton peak flux and these solar parameters are
derived for a low (>10 MeV) and high (>60 MeV) energy range excluding any flux
enhancement due to the passage of fast interplanetary shocks. The obtained
correlation coefficients are: 0.55+-0.07 (0.63+-0.06) with flare intensity and
0.56+-0.08 (0.40+-0.09) with the CME speed for E>10 MeV (E>60 MeV). For both
energy ranges, the correlations with flare longitude and CME width are very
small or non-existent. Furthermore, the occurrence probabilities, correlation
coefficients and mean peak fluxes are derived in multi-dimensional bins
combining the aforementioned solar parameters. The correlation coefficients are
also determined in different proton energy channels ranging from 5 to 200 MeV.
The results show that the correlation between the proton peak flux and the CME
speed decreases with energy, while the correlation with the flare intensity
shows the opposite behavior. Furthermore, the correlation with the CME speed is
stronger than the correlation with the flare intensity below 15 MeV and becomes
weaker above 20 MeV. Excluding the flux enhancements due to interplanetary
shocks, only a small but not very significant change is observed in the
correlation between the peak flux below 7 MeV and the CME speed.