We analyze the slow, glassy structural relaxation as measured through
collective and tagged-particle density correlation functions obtained from
Brownian dynamics simulations for a polydisperse system of quasi-hard spheres
in the framework of the mode-coupling theory of the glass transition (MCT).
Asymptotic analyses show good agreement for the collective dynamics when
polydispersity effects are taken into account in a multi-component calculation,
but qualitative disagreement at small $q$ when the system is treated as
effectively monodisperse. The origin of the different small-$q$ behaviour is
attributed to the interplay between interdiffusion processes and structural
relaxation. Numerical solutions of the MCT equations are obtained taking
properly binned partial static structure factors from the simulations as input.
Accounting for a shift in the critical density, the collective density
correlation functions are well described by the theory at all densities
investigated in the simulations, with quantitative agreement best around the
maxima of the static structure factor, and worst around its minima. A
parameter-free comparison of the tagged-particle dynamics however reveals large
quantiative errors for small wave numbers that are connected to the well-known
decoupling of self-diffusion from structural relaxation and to dynamical
heterogeneities. While deviations from MCT behaviour are clearly seen in the
tagged-particle quantities for densities close to and on the liquid side of the
MCT glass transition, no such deviations are seen in the collective dynamics.