We present the results of a detailed element abundance study of hot gas in
M87, observed by XMM-Newton. We choose two radial bins, 1'-3' and 8'-16'
(8'-14' for EMOS; hereafter the central and the outer zones), where the
temperature is almost constant, to carry out the detailed abundance
measurements of O, Ne, Mg, Si, S, Ar, Ca, Fe and Ni using EPIC-PN (EPN) and
-MOS (EMOS) data. First, we find that the element abundance pattern in the
central compared to the outer zone in M87 is characterized by SN Ia enrichment
of a high (roughly solar) ratio of Si-group elements (Si, S, Ar, Ca) to Fe,
implying that Si burning in SN Ia is highly incomplete. In nucleosynthesis
modeling this is associated with either a lower density of the
deflagration-detonation transition and/or lower C/O and/or lower central
ignition density and observationally detected as optically subluminous SNe Ia
in early-type galaxies. Second, we find that SN Ia enrichment has a
systematically lower ratio of the Si-group elements to Fe by 0.2 dex in the
outer zone associated with the ICM of the Virgo cluster. We find that such a
ratio and even lower values by another 0.1 dex are a characteristic of the ICM
in many clusters using observed Si:S:Fe ratios as found with ASCA. Third, the
Ni/Fe ratio in the central zone of M87 is 1.5+/-0.3 solar (meteoritic), while
values around 3 times solar are reported for other clusters. In modeling of SN
Ia, this implies a reduced influence of fast deflagration SN Ia models in the
chemical enrichment of M87's ISM. Thus, to describe the SN Ia metal enrichment
in clusters, both deflagration as well as delayed detonation scenarios are
required, supporting a similar conclusion, derived from optical studies on SNe
Ia. Abridged.