We develop a new method of combining cluster observables (number counts and
cluster-cluster correlation functions) and stacked weak lensing signals of
background galaxy shapes, both of which are available in a wide-field optical
imaging survey. Assuming that the clusters have secure redshift estimates, we
show that the joint experiment enables a self-calibration of important
systematic errors including the source redshift uncertainty and the cluster
mass-observable relation, by adopting a single population of background source
galaxies for the lensing analysis. It allows us to use the relative strengths
of stacked lensing signals at different cluster redshifts for calibrating the
source redshift uncertainty, which in turn leads to accurate measurements of
the mean cluster mass in each bin. In addition, our formulation of stacked
lensing signals in Fourier space simplifies the Fisher matrix calculations, as
well as the marginalization over the cluster off-centering effect, the most
significant uncertainty in stacked lensing. We show that upcoming wide-field
surveys yield stringent constraints on cosmological parameters including dark
energy parameters, without any priors on nuisance parameters that model
systematic uncertainties. Specifically, the stacked lensing information
improves the dark energy FoM by a factor of 4, compared to that from the
cluster observables alone. The primordial non-Gaussianity parameter can also be
constrained with a level of f_NL~10. In this method, the mean source redshift
is well calibrated to an accuracy of 0.1 in redshift, and the mean cluster mass
in each bin to 5-10% accuracies, which demonstrates the success of the
self-calibration of systematic uncertainties from the joint experiment.
(Abridged)