The aim of this paper is to test the basic model of negative AGN feedback,
according to which once the central black hole accretes at the Eddington limit
and reaches a certain critical mass, AGN driven outflows blow out gas,
suppressing star formation in the host galaxy and self-regulating black hole
growth.
  We consider a sample of 224 quasars selected from the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey(SDSS) at z < 1 observed in the infrared band by the Herschel Space
Observatory in point source photometry mode. We evaluate the star formation
rate in relation to several outflow signatures traced by [O III]4959,5007 and
[O III]3726,3729 emission line in about half of the sample with high quality
spectra. Most of the quasars show asymmetric and broad wings in [O III], clear
outflow signatures. We separate the quasars in two groups: "weakly" and
"strongly" outflowing using three different criteria. When we compare the mean
star formation rate in 5 bins of redshift in the two groups, we find that the
SFRs are comparable or slightly larger in the strongly outflowing quasars, in
contrast with what it is predicted by the basic negative AGN feedback model.
Moreover, for quasars dominated in the infrared by starburst or by AGN
emission, we do not find any correlation between the star formation rate and
the velocity of the outflow, a trend previously reported in literature for pure
starburst galaxies.
  We conclude that the basic AGN negative feedback scenario seems not to be in
accordance with our results. Although we use a large sample of quasars, we did
not find any evidence that the star formation rate is suppressed in presence of
AGN driven outflows on large scale. A possibility is that feedback is effective
over much longer timescales than those of sigle episode of quasar activity.