We recently proposed to cross-correlate the diffuse gamma-ray emission with
the gravitational lensing signal of cosmic shear. This represents a novel and
promising strategy to search for annihilating or decaying dark matter (DM)
candidates. In the present work, we demonstrate the potential of a
tomographic-spectral approach: measuring the cross-correlation in separate bins
of redshift and energy significantly improves the sensitivity to a DM signal.
Indeed, the power of the proposed technique stems from the capability of
simultaneously exploiting the different redshift scaling of astrophysical and
DM components, their different energy spectra and their different angular
shapes. The sensitivity to a particle DM signal is extremely promising even in
the case the gamma-ray emission induced by DM is a subdominant component in the
isotropic gamma-ray background. We quantify the prospects of detecting DM by
cross-correlating the gamma-ray emission from the Fermi large area telescope
(LAT) with the cosmic shear measured by the Dark Energy Survey, using data sets
that will be available in the near future. Under the hypothesis of a
significant (but realistic) subhalo boost, such a measurement can deliver a
5-sigma detection of DM, if the DM particle has a mass lighter than 300 GeV and
thermal annihilation rate. Data from the European Space Agency Euclid satellite
(launch planned for 2020) will be even more informative: if used to reconstruct
the properties of the DM particle, the cross-correlation of Euclid and
Fermi-LAT will allow for a measurement of the DM mass within a factor of 1.5-2,
even for moderate subhalo boosts, assuming the DM mass around 100 GeV and a
thermal annihilation rate.