We have generated a series of composite QSO spectra using over 22000
individual low resolution (~8A) QSO spectra obtained from the 2dF
(18.25<bj<20.85) and 6dF (16<bj<18.25) QSO Redshift Surveys. The large size of
the catalogue has enabled us to construct composite spectra in narrow redshift
(dz=0.25) and absolute magnitude (dMb=0.5) bins. The median number of QSOs in
each composite is ~200, yielding typical S/N of ~100. For a given redshift
interval, the composite spectra cover a factor of over 25 in luminosity. Using
the composite spectra we have measured the equivalent widths (EWs) of the major
broad and narrow emission lines, and the CaII K absorption feature due to the
host galaxy of the AGN. Assuming a fixed host galaxy spectral energy
distribution (SED), the correlation between CaII K EW and luminosity implies
Lgal proportional to Lqso**{0.42+-0.05}. We find strong anti-correlations with
luminosity for the EWs of [OII] and [NeV]. These provide hints to the general
fading of the NLR in high luminosity sources which we attribute to the NLR
dimensions becoming larger than the host galaxy. If average AGN host galaxies
have SEDs similar to average galaxies, then the observed narrow [OII] emission
could be solely due to the host galaxy at low luminosities (M_B~-20). We
measure highly significant Baldwin effects for most broad emission lines (CIV,
CIII], MgII, Hbeta, Hgamma) and show that they are predominantly due to
correlations with luminosity, not redshift. We find that the Hbeta and Hgamma
Balmer lines show an inverse Baldwin effect and are positively correlated with
luminosity, unlike the broad UV lines. We postulate that this previously
unknown effect is due to a luminosity dependent change in the the ratio of disk
to non-disk continuum components (abridged).