This paper explores feedback systems using incremental redundancy (IR) with
noiseless transmitter confirmation (NTC). For IR-NTC systems based on {\em
finite-length} codes (with blocklength $N$) and decoding attempts only at {\em
certain specified decoding times}, this paper presents the asymptotic expansion
achieved by random coding, provides rate-compatible sphere-packing (RCSP)
performance approximations, and presents simulation results of tail-biting
convolutional codes.
  The information-theoretic analysis shows that values of $N$ relatively close
to the expected latency yield the same random-coding achievability expansion as
with $N = \infty$. However, the penalty introduced in the expansion by limiting
decoding times is linear in the interval between decoding times. For binary
symmetric channels, the RCSP approximation provides an efficiently-computed
approximation of performance that shows excellent agreement with a family of
rate-compatible, tail-biting convolutional codes in the short-latency regime.
For the additive white Gaussian noise channel, bounded-distance decoding
simplifies the computation of the marginal RCSP approximation and produces
similar results as analysis based on maximum-likelihood decoding for latencies
greater than 200. The efficiency of the marginal RCSP approximation facilitates
optimization of the lengths of incremental transmissions when the number of
incremental transmissions is constrained to be small or the length of the
incremental transmissions is constrained to be uniform after the first
transmission. Finally, an RCSP-based decoding error trajectory is introduced
that provides target error rates for the design of rate-compatible code
families for use in feedback communication systems.