The granular jamming transition is experimentally investigated in a
two-dimensional system of frictional, bi-dispersed disks subject to
quasi-static, uniaxial compression at zero granular temperature. Currently
accepted results show the jamming transition occurs at a critical packing
fraction $\phi_c$. In contrast, we observe the first compression cycle exhibits
{\it fragility} - metastable configuration with simultaneous jammed and
un-jammed clusters - over a small interval in packing fraction ($\phi_1 < \phi
< \phi_2$). The fragile state separates the two conditions that define $\phi_c$
with an exponential rise in pressure starting at $\phi_1$ and an exponential
fall in disk displacements ending at $\phi_2$. The results are explained
through a percolation mechanism of stressed contacts where cluster growth
exhibits strong spatial correlation with disk displacements. Measurements with
several disk materials of varying elastic moduli $E$ and friction coefficients
$\mu$, show friction directly controls the start of the fragile state, but
indirectly controls the exponential slope. Additionally, we experimentally
confirm recent predictions relating the dependence of $\phi_c$ on $\mu$. Under
repetitive loading (compression), the system exhibits hysteresis in pressure,
and the onset $\phi_c$ increases slowly with repetition number. This friction
induced hysteretic creep is interpreted as the granular pack's evolution from a
metastable to an eventual structurally stable configuration. It is shown to
depend upon the quasi-static step size $\Delta \phi$ which provides the only
perturbative mechanism in the experimental protocol, and the friction
coefficient $\mu$ which acts to stabilize the pack.