The magnification effect of gravitational lensing is a powerful probe of the
distribution of matter in the universe, yet it is frequently overlooked due to
the fact that its signal to noise is smaller than that of lensing shear.
Because its systematic errors are quite different from those of shear,
magnification is nevertheless an important approach with which to study the
distribution of large scale structure. We present lensing mass profiles of
spectroscopic luminous red galaxies (LRGs) and galaxy clusters determined
through measurements of the weak lensing magnification of photometric LRGs in
their background. We measure the change in detected galaxy counts as well as
the increased average galaxy flux behind the lenses. In addition, we examine
the average change in source color due to extinction by dust in the lenses. By
simultaneously fitting these three probes we constrain the mass profiles and
dust-to-mass ratios of the lenses in six bins of lens richness. For each
richness bin we fit an NFW halo mass, brightest cluster galaxy (BCG) mass,
second halo term, and dust-to-mass ratio. The resulting mass-richness relation
is consistent with previous analyses of the catalogs, and limits on the
dust-to-mass ratio in the lenses are in agreement with expectations. We explore
the effects of including the (low signal-to-noise) flux magnification and
reddening measurements in the analysis compared to using only the counts
magnification data; the additional probes significantly improve the agreement
between our measured mass-richness relation and previous results.