We use X-ray scattering and molecular simulations to investigate the
structural properties of complexes of multivalent cationic lipids and DNA
molecules. At low mole fraction of neutral lipids (NLs), $\Phi_{\rm NL}$, the
complexes show dramatic DNA compaction down to essentially close packed DNA
arrays with a DNA interaxial spacing $d_{\rm DNA}=25\AA$. A gradual increase in
$\Phi_{\rm NL}$ does not lead to a continuous increase in $d_{\rm DNA}$ as
observed for DNA complexes of monovalent cationic lipids (CLs). Instead,
distinct spacing regimes exist, with sharp transitions between them. Three
packing states have been identified: (i) close packed, (ii) condensed, but not
close packed, with $d_{\rm DNA}=27-28\AA$, and (iii) an expanded state, where
$d_{\rm DNA}$ increases gradually with $\Phi_{\rm NL}$. Based on our
experimental and computational results, we conclude that the DNA condensation
is mediated by the multivalent cationic lipids, which assemble between the
negatively charged DNA rods. Quite remarkably, the computational results show
that the less tightly packed structure in regime (ii) is thermodynamically more
stable than the close packed structure in regime (i). Accordingly, the constant
DNA spacing observed in regime (ii) is attributed to lateral phase coexistence
between this stable CL-DNA complex and neutral membranes. This finding may
explain the reduced transfection efficiency measured for such complexes:
Transfection involves endosomal escape and disassembly of the complex, and
these processes are inhibited by the high thermodynamic stability. Our results,
which demonstrate the existence of an inverse correlation between the stability
and transfection activity of lamellar CL-DNA complexes are, therefore,
consistent with a recently proposed model of cellular entry.