We study the combined influence of amino acid composition and chain length on
the thermal stability of protein structures. A new parameterization of the
internal free energy is considered, as the sum of hydrophobic effect,
hydrogen-bond and de-hydration energy terms. We divided a non-redundant
selection of protein structures from the Protein Data Bank into three groups:
i) rich in order-promoting residues (OPR proteins); ii) rich in
disorder-promoting residues (DPR proteins); iii) belonging to a twilight zone
(TZ proteins). We observe a partition of PDB in several groups with different
internal free energies, amino acid compositions and protein lengths. Internal
free energy of 96% of the proteins analyzed ranges from -2 to -6.5 kJ/mol/res.
We found many DPR and OPR proteins with the same relative thermal stability.
Only OPR proteins with internal energy between -4 and -6.5 kJ/mol/res are
observed to have chains longer than 200 residues, with a high de-hydration
energy compensated by the hydrophobic effect. DPR and TZ proteins are shorter
than 200 residues and they have an internal energy above -4 kJ/mol/res, with a
few exceptions among TZ proteins. Hydrogen-bonds play an important role in the
stabilization of these DPR folds, often higher than contact energy. The new
parameterization of internal free energy let emerge a geography of thermal
stabilities of PDB structures. Amino acid composition per se is not sufficient
to determine the stability of protein folds, since. DPR and TZ proteins
generally have a relatively high internal free energy, and they are stabilized
by hydrogen-bonds. Long DPR proteins are not observed in the PDB, because their
low hydrophobicity cannot compensate the high de-hydration energy necessary to
accommodate residues within a highly packed globular fold.