We present composite spectra constructed from a sample of 242,150 Lyman-alpha
(Lya) forest absorbers at redshifts 2.4<z<3.1 identified in quasar spectra from
the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) as part of Data Release 9 of
the Sloan Digital Sky Survey III. We select forest absorbers by their flux in
bins 138 km/s wide (approximately the size of the BOSS resolution element). We
split these absorbers into five samples spanning the range of flux -0.05 <
F<0.45. Tests on a smaller sample of high-resolution spectra show that our
three strongest absorption bins would probe circumgalactic regions (projected
separation < 300 proper kpc and |Delta v| < 300km/s) in about 60% of cases for
very high signal-to-noise ratio. Within this subset, weakening Lya absorption
is associated with decreasing purity of circumgalactic selection once BOSS
noise is included. Our weaker two Lya absorption samples are dominated by the
intergalactic medium.
  We present composite spectra of these samples and a catalogue of measured
absorption features from HI and 13 metal ionization species, all of which we
make available to the community. We compare measurements of seven Lyman series
transitions in our composite spectra to single line models and obtain further
constraints from their associated excess Lyman limit opacity. This analysis
provides results consistent with column densities over the range 14.4 <~ Log
(N_HI) <~ 16.45. We compare our measurements of metal absorption to a variety
of simple single-line, single-phase models for a preliminary interpretation.
Our results imply clumping on scales down to ~30 pc and near-solar
metallicities in the circumgalactic samples, while high-ionization metal
absorption consistent with typical IGM densities and metallicities is visible
in all samples.