There is currently no consistent approach to modelling galaxy bias evolution
in cosmological inference. This lack of a common standard makes the rigorous
comparison or combination of probes difficult. We show that the choice of
biasing model has a significant impact on cosmological parameter constraints
for a survey such as the Dark Energy Survey (DES), considering the 2-point
correlations of galaxies in five tomographic redshift bins. We find that
modelling galaxy bias with a free biasing parameter per redshift bin gives a
Figure of Merit (FoM) for Dark Energy equation of state parameters $w_0, w_a$
smaller by a factor of 10 than if a constant bias is assumed. An incorrect bias
model will also cause a shift in measured values of cosmological parameters.
Motivated by these points and focusing on the redshift evolution of linear
bias, we propose the use of a generalised galaxy bias which encompasses a range
of bias models from theory, observations and simulations, $b(z) = c + (b_0 -
c)/D(z)^\alpha$, where $c, b_0$ and $\alpha$ are constants. For a DES-like
galaxy survey we find that this model gives an unbiased estimate of $w_0, w_a$
with the same number or fewer nuisance parameters and a higher FoM than a
simple $b(z)$ model allowed to vary in z-bins. We show how the parameters of
this model are correlated with cosmological parameters. We fit a range of bias
models to two recent datasets, and conclude that this generalised
parameterisation is a sensible benchmark expression of galaxy bias on large
scales.