We discuss MAXIPOL, a bolometric balloon-borne experiment designed to measure
the E-mode polarization of the cosmic microwave background radiation (CMB).
MAXIPOL is the first bolometric CMB experiment to observe the sky using rapid
polarization modulation. To build MAXIPOL, the CMB temperature anisotropy
experiment MAXIMA was retrofitted with a rotating half-wave plate and a
stationary analyzer. We describe the instrument, the observations, the
calibration and the reduction of data collected with twelve polarimeters
operating at 140 GHz and with a FWHM beam size of 10 arcmin. We present maps of
the Q and U Stokes parameters of an 8 deg^2 region of the sky near the star
Beta Ursae Minoris. The power spectra computed from these maps give weak
evidence for an EE signal. The maximum-likelihood amplitude of
l(l+1)C^{EE}_{l}/(2 pi) is 55_{-45}^{+51} uK^2 (68%), and the likelihood
function is asymmetric and skewed positive such that with a uniform prior the
probability that the amplitude is positive is 96%. This result is consistent
with the expected concordance LCDM amplitude of 14 uK^2. The maximum likelihood
amplitudes for l(l+1)C^{BB}_{l}/(2 pi) and $\ell(\ell+1)C^{EB}_{\ell}/2\pi$ are
-31_{-19}^{+31} and 18_{-34}^{+27} uK^2 (68%), respectively, which are
consistent with zero. All of the results are for one bin in the range 151 < l <
693. Tests revealed no residual systematic errors in the time or map domain. A
comprehensive discussion of the analysis of the data is presented in a
companion paper.