The behavior of confined cylindrical micelle-forming surfactants under the
influence of shear has been investigated using Monte Carlo simulations. The
surfactants are modeled as coarse-grained lattice polymers, while the Monte
Carlo shear flow is implemented with an externally imposed potential energy
field which induces a linear drag velocity on the surfactants. It is shown that
in the absence of shear, cylindrical micelles confined within a monolayer
coarsen gradually with Monte Carlo "time" t, the persistence length of the
micelles scaling as t^{0.24}, in agreement with the scaling obtained
experimentally. Under the imposition of shear, the micelles within a monolayer
align parallel to the direction of shear, as observed experimentally. Micelles
confined within thicker films also align parallel to each other with a
hexagonal packing under shear, but assume a finite tilt with respect to the
velocity vector within the velocity-velocity gradient plane. We propose a novel
mechanism for this shear-induced alignment of micelles based on breaking up of
micelles aligned perpendicular to shear and their reformation and subsequent
growth in the shear direction. It is observed that there exists a "window" of
shear rates within which such alignment occurs. A phenomenological theory
proposed to explain the above behavior is in good agreement with simulation
results. A comparison of simulated and experimental self-diffusivities yields a
physical timescale for Monte Carlo moves, which enables an assessment of the
physical shear rates employed in our Monte Carlo simulations.