We present a study of the average properties of luminous infrared galaxies
detected directly at 24 $\mu$m in the COSMOS field using a median stacking
analysis at 70$\mu$m and 160 $\mu$m. Over 35000 sources spanning 0<z<3 and 0.06
mJy<S_{24}<3.0 mJy are stacked, divided into bins of both photometric redshift
and 24 $\mu$m flux. We find no correlation of $S_{70}/S_{24}$ flux density
ratio with $S_{24}$, but find that galaxies with higher $S_{24}$ have a lower
$S_{160}/S_{24}$ flux density ratio. These observed ratios suggest that 24
$\mu$m selected galaxies have warmer SEDs at higher mid-IR fluxes, and
therefore have a possible higher fraction of AGN. Comparisons of the average
$S_{70}/S_{24}$ and $S_{160}/S_{24}$ colors with various empirical templates
and theoretical models show that the galaxies detected at 24 $\mu$m are
consistent with "normal" star-forming galaxies and warm mid-IR galaxies such as
Mrk 231, but inconsistent with heavily obscured galaxies such as Arp 220. We
perform a $\chi^{2}$ analysis to determine best fit galactic model SEDs and
total IR luminosities for each of our bins. We compare our results to previous
methods of estimating $L_{\rm{IR}}$ and find that previous methods show
considerable agreement over the full redshift range, except for the brightest
$S_{24}$ sources, where previous methods overpredict the bolometric IR
luminosity at high redshift, most likely due to their warmer dust SED. We
present a table that can be used as a more accurate and robust method for
estimating bolometric infrared luminosity from 24 $\mu$m flux densities.