The mechanism of multivalent counterion-induced bundle formation by
filamentous actin (F-actin) is studied using a coarse-grained model and
molecular dynamics simulation. Real diameter size, helically ordered charge
distribution and twist rigidity of F-actin are taken into account in our model.
The attraction between parallel F-actins induced by multivalent counterions is
studied in detail and it is found that the maximum attraction occurs between
their closest charged domains. The model F-actins aggregate due to the
like-charge attraction and form closely packed bundles. Counterions are mostly
distributed in the narrowest gaps between neighboring F-actins inside the
bundles and the channels between three adjacent F-actins correspond to low
density of the counterions. Density of the counterions varies periodically with
a wave length comparable to the separation between consecutive G-actin monomers
along the actin polymers. Long-lived defects in the hexagonal order of F-actins
in the bundles are observed that their number increases with increasing the
bundles size. Combination of electrostatic interactions and twist rigidity has
been found not to change the symmetry of F-actin helical conformation from the
native 13/6 symmetry. Calculation of zero-temperature energy of hexagonally
ordered model F-actins with the charge of the counterions distributed as
columns of charge domains representing counterion charge density waves has
shown that helical symmetries commensurate with the hexagonal lattice
correspond to local minima of the energy of the system. The global minimum of
energy corresponds to 24/11 symmetry with the columns of charge domains
arranged in the narrowest gaps between the neighboring F-actins.