The paper describes results on two components of a research program focused
on motion-based communication mediated by the dynamics of a control system.
Specifically we are interested in how mobile agents engaged in a shared
activity such as dance can use motion as a medium for transmitting certain
types of messages. The first part of the paper adopts the terminology of motion
description languages and deconstructs an elementary form of the well-known
popular dance, Salsa, in terms of four motion primitives (dance steps). Several
notions of dance complexity are introduced. We describe an experiment in which
ten performances by an actual pair of dancers are evaluated by judges and then
compared in terms of proposed complexity metrics. An energy metric is also
defined. Values of this metric are obtained by summing the lengths of motion
segments executed by wheeled robots replicating the movements of the human
dancers in each of the ten dance performances. Of all the metrics that are
considered in this experiment, energy is the most closely correlated with the
human judges' assessments of performance quality.
  The second part of the paper poses a general class of dual objective motion
control problems in which a primary objective (artistic execution of a dance
step or efficient movement toward a specified terminal state) is combined with
a communication objective. Solutions of varying degrees of explicitness can be
given in several classes of problems of communicating through the dynamics of
finite dimensional linear control systems. In this setting it is shown that the
cost of adding a communication component to motions that steer a system between
prescribed pairs of states is independent of those states. At the same time,
the optimal encoding problem itself is shown to be a problem of packing
geometric objects, and it remains open.