A ubiquitous observation in cell biology is that diffusion of macromolecules
and organelles is anomalous, and a description simply based on the conventional
diffusion equation with diffusion constants measured in dilute solution fails.
This is commonly attributed to macromolecular crowding in the interior of cells
and in cellular membranes, summarising their densely packed and heterogeneous
structures. The most familiar phenomenon is a power-law increase of the MSD,
but there are other manifestations like strongly reduced and time-dependent
diffusion coefficients, persistent correlations, non-gaussian distributions of
the displacements, heterogeneous diffusion, and immobile particles. After a
general introduction to the statistical description of slow, anomalous
transport, we summarise some widely used theoretical models: gaussian models
like FBM and Langevin equations for visco-elastic media, the CTRW model, and
the Lorentz model describing obstructed transport in a heterogeneous
environment. Emphasis is put on the spatio-temporal properties of the transport
in terms of 2-point correlation functions, dynamic scaling behaviour, and how
the models are distinguished by their propagators even for identical MSDs.
Then, we review the theory underlying common experimental techniques in the
presence of anomalous transport: single-particle tracking, FCS, and FRAP. We
report on the large body of recent experimental evidence for anomalous
transport in crowded biological media: in cyto- and nucleoplasm as well as in
cellular membranes, complemented by in vitro experiments where model systems
mimic physiological crowding conditions. Finally, computer simulations play an
important role in testing the theoretical models and corroborating the
experimental findings. The review is completed by a synthesis of the
theoretical and experimental progress identifying open questions for future
investigation.