According to Christopher Alexander's theory of centers, a whole comprises
numerous, recursively defined centers for things or spaces surrounding us.
Wholeness is a type of global structure or life-giving order emerging from the
whole as a field of the centers. The wholeness is an essential part of any
complex system and exists, to some degree or other, in spaces. This paper
defines wholeness as a hierarchical graph, in which individual centers are
represented as the nodes and their relationships as the directed links. The
hierarchical graph gets its name from the inherent scaling hierarchy revealed
by the head/tail breaks, which is a classification scheme and visualization
tool for data with a heavy-tailed distribution. We suggest that (1) the degrees
of wholeness for individual centers should be measured by PageRank (PR) scores
based on the notion that high-degree-of-life centers are those to which many
high-degree-of-life centers point, and (2) that the hierarchical levels, or the
ht-index of the PR scores induced by the head/tail breaks can characterize the
degree of wholeness for the whole: the higher the ht-index, the more life or
wholeness in the whole. Three case studies applied to the Alhambra building
complex and the street networks of Manhattan and Sweden illustrate that the
defined wholeness captures fairly well human intuitions on the degree of life
for the geographic spaces. We further suggest that the mathematical model of
wholeness be an important model of geographic representation, because it is
topological oriented that enables us to see the underlying scaling structure.
The model can guide geodesign, which should be considered as the
wholeness-extending transformations that are essentially like the unfolding
processes of seeds or embryos, for creating beautiful built and natural
environments or with a high degree of wholeness.