In this study nanoscale structure and associated energy dissipation behavior
of nanoparticulates of tungsten disulphide (WS2) and nanoparticles of gold (Au)
were investigated by advanced scanning probe and electron microscopy
techniques. WS2 nanoparticulates were deposited on silicon substrate by van der
Waals adhesion transfer-deposition mechanisms. The templates of three size
variants of Au nanoparticles, close packed (4-6nm), well dispersed (120-150nm)
and clusters of (120-150 nm) nanoparticles were prepared on silicon substrates.
Nano-microstructure, morphology, topography and phase shift of both WS2 and Au
nanoparticles and nanoparticulates were characterized by Atomic Force
Microscopy (AFM), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Transmission Electron
Microscopy (TEM). SEM and TEM observations showed that the nanoparticulates of
WS2 are atomically oriented lamellar-hexagonal structure or inorganic graphite
like structure. In the tapping mode AFM imaging, repeated scanning of
nanoparticulates of WS2 resulted in inter layer movement of nanolayers. It was
observed that cluster of Au nanoparticles caused more phase shift and high
energy dissipation compared to that of well dispersed Au nanoparticles, however
close packed Au nanoparticles caused lowest phase shift and energy dissipation.
Nano-microstructure, morphology, topography and phase shift were analyzed by
SXM software. The nanoscale studies showed that the phase shift and the energy
dissipation were influenced by the geometrical and mechanical gradient of the
samples.