Photosynthesis -- the conversion of sunlight to chemical energy -- is
fundamental for supporting life on our planet. Despite its importance, the
physical principles that underpin the primary steps of photosynthesis, from
photon absorption to electronic charge separation, remain to be understood in
full. Previously, electronic coherence within tightly-packed light-harvesting
(LH) units or within individual reaction centers (RCs) has been recognized as
an important ingredient for a complete understanding of the excitation energy
transfer dynamics. However, the electronic coherence across RC and LH units has
been consistently neglected as it does not play a significant role during these
relatively slow transfer processes. Here, we turn our attention to the
absorption process, which occurs on much shorter timescales. We demonstrate
that the - often overlooked - spatially extended but short-lived excitonic
delocalization across RC and LH units plays a relevant role in general
photosynthetic systems, as it causes a redistribution of direct absorption
towards the charge separation unit. Using the complete core complex of
Rhodospirillum rubrum, we verify experimentally an 80 % increase in the direct
optical absorption of the RC in situ as compared to isolated RCs. Numerical
calculations reveal that similar enhancements can be expected for a wide
variety of photosynthetic units in both plant and bacterial systems, suggesting
that this mechanism is conserved across species and providing a clear new
design principle for light-harvesting nanostructures