We present the first measurement of the evolution of the galaxy group stellar
mass function (GrSMF) to redshift z>~1 and low masses (M*>10^12 Msun). Our
results are based on early data from the Carnegie-Spitzer-IMACS (CSI) Survey,
utilizing low-resolution spectra and broadband optical/near-IR photometry to
measure redshifts for a 3.6um selected sample of 37,000 galaxies over a 5.3
deg^2 area to z~1.2. Employing a standard friends-of-friends algorithm for all
galaxies more massive than log(M*/Msun)=10.5, we find a total of ~4000 groups.
Correcting for spectroscopic incompleteness (including slit collisions), we
build cumulative stellar mass functions for these groups in redshift bins at
z>0.35, comparing to the z=0 and z>0 mass functions from various group and
cluster samples. Our derived mass functions match up well with z>0.35 X-ray
selected clusters, and strong evolution is evident at all masses over the past
8 Gyr. Given the already low level of star formation activity in galaxies at
these masses, we therefore attribute most of the observed growth in the GrSMF
to group-group and group-galaxy mergers, in accordance with qualitative notions
of hierarchical structure formation. Given the factor 3-10 increase in the
number density of groups and clusters with M*>10^12 Msun since z=1 and the
strong anticorrelation between star formation activity and environmental
density, this late-time growth in group-sized halos may therefore be an
important contributor to the structural and star-formation evolution of massive
galaxies over the past 8 Gyr.