Significant uncertainties exist in the measured amplitude of the angular
two-point correlation function of galaxies at magnitudes $I\approx26$ and
fainter. Published results from HST and ground-based galaxy catalogs seem to
differ by as much as a factor of 3, and it is not clear whether the correlation
amplitude as a function of magnitude increases or decreases in the faintest
magnitude bins. In order to clarify the situation, we present new results from
both ground-based and HST galaxy catalogs. The angular two-point correlation
function as a function of limiting R and I magnitudes was computed from a
galaxy catalog created from the Hubble Deep Field - South (HDF-S) WFPC2 image.
The measured amplitudes of the correlation at an angular separation of 1 arcsec
are consistent with those measured in the Northern counter part of the field.
The flanking fields (FF fields) of the Hubble deep fields were used to extend
the magnitude range for which we compute correlation amplitudes towards
brighter magnitude bins. This allows easier comparison of the amplitudes to
ground based data. The newly measured correlation amplitudes as a function of
magnitude limit were compared to previously published measurements at larger
separations. For this comparison, the correlation function was approximated by
a power law with an index of 0.8. The scatter in the correlation amplitudes is
too large to be explained by random errors. We argue that the most likely cause
is the assumption that the shape of the correlation function does not depend on
the magnitude limit.