We present a Chandra analysis of the X-ray spectra of 56 clusters of galaxies
at $z>0.3$, which cover a temperature range of $3> kT > 15$ keV. Our analysis
is aimed at measuring the iron abundance in the ICM out to the highest redshift
probed to date. We find that the emission-weighted iron abundance measured
within $(0.15-0.3) R_{vir}$ in clusters below 5 keV is, on average, a factor of
$\sim2$ higher than in hotter clusters, following $Z(T)\simeq 0.88 T^{-0.47}
Z_\odot$, which confirms the trend seen in local samples. We made use of
combined spectral analysis performed over five redshift bins at $0.3> z > 1.3$
to estimate the average emission weighted iron abundance. We find a constant
average iron abundance $Z_{Fe}\simeq 0.25 Z_\odot$ as a function of redshift,
but only for clusters at $z>0.5$. The emission-weighted iron abundance is
significantly higher ($Z_{Fe}\simeq0.4 Z_\odot$) in the redshift range
$z\simeq0.3-0.5$, approaching the value measured locally in the inner $0.15
R_{vir}$ radii for a mix of cool-core and non cool-core clusters in the
redshift range $0.1<z<0.3$. The decrease in $Z_{Fe}$ with $z$ can be
parametrized by a power law of the form $\sim(1+z)^{-1.25}$. The observed
evolution implies that the average iron content of the ICM at the present epoch
is a factor of $\sim2$ larger than at $z\simeq 1.2$. We confirm that the ICM is
already significantly enriched ($Z_{Fe}\simeq0.25 Z_\odot$) at a look-back time
of 9 Gyr. Our data provide significant constraints on the time scales and
physical processes that drive the chemical enrichment of the ICM.