We present a detailed empirical assessment of how the galaxy luminosity
function and stellar luminosity density evolves over the last half of the
universe's age (0.2<z<1.2) for galaxies of different spectral energy
distributions (SED). The results are based on ~25,000 galaxies (R<24) with
redshift measurements (sigma_z~0.03) and SEDs across 350..930 nm, derived from
medium-band photometry in 17 filters, observed as part of the COMBO-17 survey
(``Classifying Objects by Medium-Band Observations in 17 Filters'') over three
disjoint fields with a total area of 0.78 square degrees. Luminosity functions
(LF), binned in redshift and SED-type, are presented in the restframe passbands
of the SDSS r-band, the Johnson B-band and a synthetic UV continuum band at 280
nm. We find that the luminosity function depends strongly on SED-type at all
redshifts covered. The shape of the LF, i.e. the faint-end power-law slope,
does depend on SED type, but not on redshift. However, the redshift evolution
of the characteristic luminosity M* and density phi* depends strongly on
SED-type: (1) Early-type galaxies, defined as redder than a present-day
reference Sa spectrum, become drastically more abundant towards low redshift,
by a factor of 10 in the number density phi* from z=1.1 to now, and by a factor
of 4 in their contribution to the co-moving r-band luminosity density, j_r. (2)
Galaxies resembling present-day Sa- to Sbc-colours show a co-moving number
density and contribution to j_r that does not vary much with redshift. (3)
Galaxies with blue spectra reflecting strong star formation decrease towards
low redshift both in luminosity and density, and by a factor of 4 in their j_r
contribution. (abridged)