We present kinematical analyses of 22 Galactic globular clusters using the
Hubble Space Telescope proper motion (HSTPROMO) catalogues recently presented
in Bellini et al. (2014). For most clusters, this is the first proper-motion
study ever performed, and, for many, this is the most detailed kinematic study
of any kind. We use cleaned samples of bright stars to determine binned
velocity-dispersion and velocity-anisotropy radial profiles and two-dimensional
velocity-dispersion spatial maps. Using these profiles, we search for
correlations between cluster kinematics and structural properties. We find
that: (1) more centrally-concentrated clusters have steeper radial
velocity-dispersion profiles; (2) on average, at 1\sigma confidence in two
dimensions, the photometric and kinematic centres of globular clusters agree to
within ~1", with a cluster-to-cluster rms of 4" (including observational
uncertainties); (3) on average, the cores of globular clusters have isotropic
velocity distributions to within 1% (\sigma_t/\sigma_r = 0.992 +/- 0.005), with
a cluster-to-cluster rms of 2% (including observational uncertainties); (4)
clusters generally have mildly radially anisotropic velocity distributions
(\sigma_t/\sigma_r ~ 0.8-1.0) near the half-mass radius, with bigger deviations
from isotropy for clusters with longer relaxation times; (5) there is a
relation between \sigma_minor/\sigma_major and ellipticity, such that the more
flattened clusters in the sample tend to be more anisotropic, with
\sigma_minor/\sigma_major ~ 0.9-1.0. Aside from these general results and
correlations, the profiles and maps presented here can provide a basis for
detailed dynamical modelling of individual globular clusters. Given the quality
of the data, this is likely to provide new insights into a range of topics
concerning globular cluster mass profiles, structure, and dynamics.