In Cloud systems, we often deal with jobs that arrive and depart in an online
manner. Upon its arrival, a job should be assigned to a server. Each job has a
size which defines the amount of resources that it needs. Servers have uniform
capacity and, at all times, the total size of jobs assigned to a server should
not exceed the capacity. This setting is closely related to the classic bin
packing problem. The difference is that, in bin packing, the objective is to
minimize the total number of used servers. In the Cloud, however, the charge
for each server is proportional to the length of the time interval it is rented
for, and the goal is to minimize the cost involved in renting all used servers.
Recently, certain bin packing strategies were considered for renting servers in
the Cloud [Li et al. SPAA'14]. There, it is proved that all Any-Fit bin packing
strategy has a competitive ratio of at least $\mu$, where $\mu$ is the max/min
interval length ratio of jobs. It is also shown that First Fit has a
competitive ratio of $2\mu + 13$ while Best Fit is not competitive at all. We
observe that the lower bound of $\mu$ extends to all online algorithms. We also
prove that, surprisingly, Next Fit algorithm has competitive ratio of at most
$2 \mu +1$. We also show that a variant of Next Fit achieves a competitive
ratio of $K \times max\{1,\mu/(K-1)\}+1$, where $K$ is a parameter of the
algorithm. In particular, if the value of $\mu$ is known, the algorithm has a
competitive ratio of $\mu+2$; this improves upon the existing upper bound of
$\mu+8$. Finally, we introduce a simple algorithm called Move To Front (MTF)
which has a competitive ratio of at most $6\mu + 7$ and also promising
average-case performance. We experimentally study the average-case performance
of different algorithms and observe that the typical behaviour of MTF is
distinctively better than other algorithms.