On May 17, 2012 an M5.1-class flare exploded from the sun. An O-type coronal
mass ejection (CME) was also associated with this flare. There was an instant
increase in proton flux with peak at $\geq 100$ MeV, leading to S2 solar
radiation storm level. In about 20 minutes after the X-ray emission, the solar
particles reached the Earth.It was the source of the first (since December
2006) ground level enhancement (GLE) of the current solar cycle 24. The GLE was
detected by neutron monitors (NM) and other ground based detectors. Here we
present an observation by the Tupi muon telescopes (Niteroi, Brazil, $22^{0}.9
S$, $43^{0}.2 W$, 3 m above sea level) of the enhancement of muons at ground
level associated with this M5.1-class solar flare. The Tupi telescopes
registered a muon excess over background $\sim 20\%$ in the 5-min binning time
profile. The Tupi signal is studied in correlation with data obtained by
space-borne detectors (GOES, ACE), ground based neutron monitors (Oulu) and air
shower detectors (the IceTop surface component of the IceCube neutrino
observatory). We also report the observation of the muon signal possibly
associated with the CME/sheath striking the Earth magnetosphere on May 20,
2012. We show that the observed temporal correlation of the muon excess
observed by the Tupi muon telescopes with solar transient events suggests a
real physical connection between them. Our observation indicates that
combination of two factors, the low energy threshold of the Tupi muon
telescopes and the location of the Tupi experiment in the South Atlantic
Anomaly region, can be favorable in the study and detection of the solar
transient events. Our experiment provides new data complementary to other
techniques (space and ground based) in the study of solar physics.