We investigate the structure of crystalline particle arrays on constant mean
curvature (CMC) surfaces of revolution. Such curved crystals have been realized
physically by creating charge-stabilized colloidal arrays on liquid capillary
bridges. CMC surfaces of revolution, classified by Charles Delaunay in 1841,
include the 2-sphere, the cylinder, the vanishing mean curvature catenoid (a
minimal surface) and the richer and less investigated unduloid and nodoid. We
determine numerically candidate ground state configurations for 1000 point-like
particles interacting with a pairwise-repulsive dipole-dipole interaction
potential. We mimic stretching of capillary bridges by determining the
equilibrium configurations of particles arrayed on a sequence of Delaunay
surfaces obtained by increasing or decreasing the height at constant volume
starting from a given initial surface, either a fat cylinder or a square
cylinder. In this case the stretching process takes one through a complicated
sequence of Delaunay surfaces each with different geometrical parameters
including the aspect ratio, mean curvature and maximal Gaussian curvature.
Unduloids, catenoids and nodoids all appear in this process. Defect motifs in
the ground state evolve from dislocations at the boundary to dislocations in
the interior to pleats and scars in the interior and then isolated 7-fold
disclinations in the interior as the capillary bridge narrows at the waist
(equator) and the maximal (negative) Gaussian curvature grows. We also check
theoretical predictions that the isolated disclinations are present in the
ground state when the surface contains a geodesic disc with integrated Gaussian
curvature exceeding -pi/3. Finally we explore minimal energy configurations on
sets of slices of a given Delaunay surface and obtain configurations and defect
motifs consistent with those seen in stretching.