We study top quark pair production in association with a Z boson at the Large
Hadron Collider (LHC) and investigate the prospects of measuring the couplings
of top quarks to the Z boson. To date these couplings have not been constrained
in direct measurements. Such a determination will be possible for the first
time at the LHC. Our calculation improves previous coupling studies through the
inclusion of next-to-leading order (NLO) QCD corrections in production and
decays of all unstable particles. We treat top quarks in the narrow-width
approximation and retain all NLO spin correlations. To determine the
sensitivity of a coupling measurement we perform a binned log-likelihood ratio
test based on normalization and shape information of the angle between the
leptons from the Z boson decay. The obtained limits account for statistical
uncertainties as well as leading theoretical systematics from residual scale
dependence and parton distribution functions. We use current CMS data to place
the first direct constraints on the ttbZ couplings. We also consider the
upcoming high-energy LHC run and find that with 300 inverse fb of data at an
energy of 13 TeV the vector and axial ttbZ couplings can be constrained at the
95% confidence level to C_V=0.24^{+0.39}_{-0.85} and C_A=-0.60^{+0.14}_{-0.18},
where the central values are the Standard Model predictions. This is a
reduction of uncertainties by 25% and 42%, respectively, compared to an
analysis based on leading-order predictions. We also translate these results
into limits on dimension-six operators contributing to the ttbZ interactions
beyond the Standard Model.