We describe a new data format for storing triangular, symmetric, and
Hermitian matrices called RFPF (Rectangular Full Packed Format). The standard
two dimensional arrays of Fortran and C (also known as full format) that are
used to represent triangular and symmetric matrices waste nearly half of the
storage space but provide high performance via the use of Level 3 BLAS.
Standard packed format arrays fully utilize storage (array space) but provide
low performance as there is no Level 3 packed BLAS. We combine the good
features of packed and full storage using RFPF to obtain high performance via
using Level 3 BLAS as RFPF is a standard full format representation. Also, RFPF
requires exactly the same minimal storage as packed format. Each LAPACK full
and/or packed triangular, symmetric, and Hermitian routine becomes a single new
RFPF routine based on eight possible data layouts of RFPF. This new RFPF
routine usually consists of two calls to the corresponding LAPACK full format
routine and two calls to Level 3 BLAS routines. This means {\it no} new
software is required. As examples, we present LAPACK routines for Cholesky
factorization, Cholesky solution and Cholesky inverse computation in RFPF to
illustrate this new work and to describe its performance on several commonly
used computer platforms. Performance of LAPACK full routines using RFPF versus
LAPACK full routines using standard format for both serial and SMP parallel
processing is about the same while using half the storage. Performance gains
are roughly one to a factor of 43 for serial and one to a factor of 97 for SMP
parallel times faster using vendor LAPACK full routines with RFPF than with
using vendor and/or reference packed routines.