Ab initio total energy calculations within the framework of density
functional theory have been performed for atomic hydrogen and oxygen
chemisorption on the (0001) surface of double hexagonal packed americium using
a full-potential all-electron linearized augmented plane wave plus local
orbitals method. Chemisorption energies were optimized with respect to the
distance of the adatom from the relaxed surface for three adsorption sites,
namely top, bridge, and hollow hcp sites, the adlayer structure corresponding
to coverage of a 0.25 monolayer in all cases. Chemisorption energies were
computed at the scalar-relativistic level (no spin-orbit coupling NSOC) and at
the fully relativistic level (with spin-orbit coupling SOC). The two-fold
bridge adsorption site was found to be the most stable site for O at both the
NSOC and SOC theoretical levels with chemisorption energies of 8.204 eV and
8.368 eV respectively, while the three-fold hollow hcp adsorption site was
found to be the most stable site for H with chemisorption energies of 3.136 eV
at the NSOC level and 3.217 eV at the SOC level. The respective distances of
the H and O adatoms from the surface were found to be 1.196 Ang. and 1.164 Ang.
Overall our calculations indicate that chemisorption energies in cases with SOC
are slightly more stable than the cases with NSOC in the 0.049-0.238 eV range.
The work functions and net magnetic moments respectively increased and
decreased in all cases compared with the corresponding quantities of bare dhcp
Am (0001) surface. The partial charges inside the muffin-tins, difference
charge density distributions, and the local density of states have been used to
analyze the Am-adatom bond interactions in detail. The implications of
chemisorption on Am 5f electron localization-delocalization are also discussed.