The bright X-ray source, 2XMMi J180438.7-145647 is fortunate to have long
baseline observations in INTEGRAL that compliment observations taken by other
missions. Optical spectroscopy of this object has suggested a distance of ~7
kpc and an identification with a low mass X-ray binary. We instead use the
X-ray data from 0.3-40 keV to identify the source as a bright intermediate
polar (IP) with an estimate for the white dwarf mass of~0.60 M_solar. This
identification is supported by the presence of an iron triplet, the component
lines of which are some of the strongest seen in IPs; and the signature of the
spin period of the white dwarf at ~24 mins. We note that the lack of broad-band
variability may suggest that this object is a stream-fed IP, similar in many
respects to the well studied IP, V2400 Oph. Phase-binning has allowed us to
create spectra corresponding to the peaks and troughs of the lightcurve from
which we determine that the spectra appear harder in the troughs, consistent
with the behaviour of other IPs binned on their spin periods. This work
strongly suggests a mis-identification in the optical due to the presence of
large columns of enshrouding material. We instead propose a distance to the
source of <2.5 kpc to be consistent with the luminosities of other IPs in the
dim, hard state. The relatively high flux of the source together with the
strength of the iron lines may, in future, allow the source to be used to
diagnose the properties of the shock heated plasma and the reflected component
of the emission.