The galaxy cluster Abell 3667 is an ideal laboratory to study the plasma
processes in the intracluster medium (ICM). High resolution Chandra X-ray
observations show a cold front in Abell 3667. At radio wavelengths, Abell 3667
reveals a double radio-relic feature in the outskirts of the cluster. These
suggest multiple merger events in this cluster. In this paper, we analyze the
substantial archival X-ray observations of Abell 3667 from ChandraX-ray
Observatory and compare these with existing radio observations as well as
state-of-the-art AMR (Adaptive Mesh Refinement) MHD cosmological simulations
using Enzo. We have used two temperature map making techniques, Weighted
Voronoi Tessellation and Adaptive Circular Binning, to produce the high
resolution and largest field-of-view temperature maps of Abell 3667. These high
fidelity temperature maps allow us to study the X-ray shocks in the cluster
using a new 2-dimensional shock-finding algorithm. We have also estimated the
Mach numbers from the shocks inferred from previous ATCA radio observations.
The combined shock statistics from the X-ray and radio data are in agreement
with the shock statistics in a simulated MHD cluster. We have also studied the
profiles of the thermodynamic properties across the cold front using 447 ksec
from the combined Chandra observations on Abell 3667. Our results show that the
stability of the cold front in Abell 3667 can be attributed to the suppression
of the thermal conduction across the cold front by a factor of 100 - 700
compared to the classical Spitzer value.