High-statistics measurements of differential cross sections and spin density
matrix elements for the reaction $\gamma p \to \phi p$ have been made using the
CLAS detector at Jefferson Lab. We cover center-of-mass energies ($\sqrt{s}$)
from 1.97 to 2.84 GeV, with an extensive coverage in the $\phi$ production
angle. The high statistics of the data sample made it necessary to carefully
account for the interplay between the $\phi$ natural lineshape and effects of
the detector resolution, that are found to be comparable in magnitude. We study
both the charged- ($\phi \to K^+ K^-$) and neutral- ($\phi \to K^0_S K^0_L$)
$K\overline{K}$ decay modes of the $\phi$. Further, for the charged mode, we
differentiate between the cases where the final $K^-$ track is directly
detected or its momentum reconstructed as the total missing momentum in the
event. The two charged-mode topologies and the neutral-mode have different
resolutions and are calibrated against each other. Extensive usage is made of
kinematic fitting to improve the reconstructed $\phi$ mass resolution. Our
final results are reported in 10- and mostly 30-MeV-wide $\sqrt{s}$ bins for
the charged- and the neutral-mode, respectively. Possible effects from $K^+
\Lambda^\ast$ channels with $p K\overline{K}$ final-states are discussed. These
present results constitute the most precise and extensive $\phi$
photoproduction measurements to date and in conjunction with the $\omega$
photoproduction results recently published by CLAS, will greatly improve our
understanding of low energy vector meson photoproduction.