We have formulated the problem of generating periodic dense paritcle packings
as an optimization problem called the Adaptive Shrinking Cell (ASC) formulation
[S. Torquato and Y. Jiao, Phys. Rev. E {\bf 80}, 041104 (2009)]. Because the
objective function and impenetrability constraints can be exactly linearized
for sphere packings with a size distribution in $d$-dimensional Euclidean space
$\mathbb{R}^d$, it is most suitable and natural to solve the corresponding ASC
optimization problem using sequential linear programming (SLP) techniques. We
implement an SLP solution to produce robustly a wide spectrum of jammed sphere
packings in $\mathbb{R}^d$ for $d=2,3,4,5$ and $6$ with a diversity of disorder
and densities up to the maximally densities. This deterministic algorithm can
produce a broad range of inherent structures besides the usual disordered ones
with very small computational cost by tuning the radius of the {\it influence
sphere}. In three dimensions, we show that it can produce with high probability
a variety of strictly jammed packings with a packing density anywhere in the
wide range $[0.6, 0.7408...]$. We also apply the algorithm to generate various
disordered packings as well as the maximally dense packings for $d=2,3, 4,5$
and 6. Compared to the LS procedure, our SLP protocol is able to ensure that
the final packings are truly jammed, produces disordered jammed packings with
anomalously low densities, and is appreciably more robust and computationally
faster at generating maximally dense packings, especially as the space
dimension increases.