Reproducibility is imperative for any scientific discovery. More often than
not, modern scientific findings rely on statistical analysis of
high-dimensional data. At a minimum, reproducibility manifests itself in
stability of statistical results relative to "reasonable" perturbations to data
and to the model used. Jacknife, bootstrap, and cross-validation are based on
perturbations to data, while robust statistics methods deal with perturbations
to models. In this article, a case is made for the importance of stability in
statistics. Firstly, we motivate the necessity of stability for interpretable
and reliable encoding models from brain fMRI signals. Secondly, we find strong
evidence in the literature to demonstrate the central role of stability in
statistical inference, such as sensitivity analysis and effect detection.
Thirdly, a smoothing parameter selector based on estimation stability (ES),
ES-CV, is proposed for Lasso, in order to bring stability to bear on
cross-validation (CV). ES-CV is then utilized in the encoding models to reduce
the number of predictors by 60% with almost no loss (1.3%) of prediction
performance across over 2,000 voxels. Last, a novel "stability" argument is
seen to drive new results that shed light on the intriguing interactions
between sample to sample variability and heavier tail error distribution (e.g.,
double-exponential) in high-dimensional regression models with $p$ predictors
and $n$ independent samples. In particular, when
$p/n\rightarrow\kappa\in(0.3,1)$ and the error distribution is
double-exponential, the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) is a better estimator than
the Least Absolute Deviation (LAD) estimator.