Random walks on expander graphs were thoroughly studied, with the important
motivation that, under some natural conditions, these walks mix quickly and
provide an efficient method of sampling the vertices of a graph. Alon,
Benjamini, Lubetzky and Sodin studied non-backtracking random walks on regular
graphs, and showed that their mixing rate may be up to twice as fast as that of
the simple random walk. As an application, they showed that the maximal number
of visits to a vertex, made by a non-backtracking random walk of length $n$ on
a high-girth $n$-vertex regular expander, is typically $(1+o(1))\frac{\log
n}{\log\log n}$, as in the case of the balls and bins experiment. They further
asked whether one can establish the precise distribution of the visits such a
walk makes.
  In this work, we answer the above question by combining a generalized form of
Brun's sieve with some extensions of the ideas in Alon et al. Let $N_t$ denote
the number of vertices visited precisely $t$ times by a non-backtracking random
walk of length $n$ on a regular $n$-vertex expander of fixed degree and girth
$g$. We prove that if $g=\omega(1)$, then for any fixed $t$, $N_t/n$ is
typically $\frac{1}{\mathrm{e}t!}+o(1)$. Furthermore, if $g=\Omega(\log\log
n)$, then $N_t/n$ is typically $\frac{1+o(1)}{\mathrm{e}t!}$ uniformly on all
$t \leq (1-o(1))\frac{\log n}{\log\log n}$ and 0 for all $t \geq
(1+o(1))\frac{\log n}{\log\log n}$. In particular, we obtain the above result
on the typical maximal number of visits to a single vertex, with an improved
threshold window. The essence of the proof lies in showing that variables
counting the number of visits to a set of sufficiently distant vertices are
asymptotically independent Poisson variables.