In this paper we use a 50ks XMM-Newton pointing overlapping with the Phoenix
Deep Survey, a homogeneous radio survey reaching muJy sensitivities, to explore
the X-ray properties and the evolution of star-forming galaxies. UV, optical
and NIR photometry is available and is used to estimate photometric redshifts
and spectral types for radio sources brighter than R=21.5mag (total of 82).
Sources with R<21.5mag and spiral galaxy SEDs (34) are grouped into two
redshift bins with a median of z=0.240 and 0.455 respectively. Stacking
analysis for both the 0.5-2 and 2-8keV bands is performed on these subsamples.
A high confidence level signal (>3.5sigma) is detected in the 0.5-2keV band
corresponding to a mean flux of ~3e-16cgs for both subsamples. This flux
translates to mean luminosities of ~5e40 and 1.5e41cgs for the z=0.240 and
0.455 subsamples respectively. Only a marginally significant signal (2.6sigma)
is detected in the 2-8keV band for the z=0.455 subsample. We argue that the
stacked signal above is dominated by star-formation. The mean L_X/L_B ratio and
the mean L_X of the two subsamples are found to be higher than optically
selected spirals and similar to starbursts. We also find that the mean L_X and
L_1.4 of the faint radio sources studied here are consistent with the L_X-L_1.4
correlation of local star-forming galaxies. Moreover, the X-ray emissivity of
sub-mJy sources to z~0.3 is found to be elevated compared to local HII
galaxies. The observed increase is consistent with L_X evolution of the form
(1+z)^3. Assuming that our sample is indeed dominated by starbursts this is
direct evidence for evolution of such systems at X-ray wavelengths. Using an
empirical L_X to SFR conversion we estimate a global SFR density at z~0.3 of
\~0.029M_o/yr/Mpc in agreement with previous studies.