Although the structure, function, conformational dynamics, and controlled
thermodynamics of proteins are manifested by their corresponding amino acid
sequences, the natural rules for molecular design and their corresponding
interplay remain obscure. In this study, we focused on the role of internal
cavities of proteins in conformational dynamics. We investigated the
pressure-induced responses from the cavity-enlarged L99A mutant of T4 lysozyme,
using high-pressure NMR spectroscopy. The signal intensities of the methyl
groups in the 1H/13C HSQC spectra, particularly those around the enlarged
cavity, decreased with the increasing pressure, and disappeared at 200 MPa,
without the appearance of new resonances, thus indicating the presence of
heterogeneous conformations around the cavity within the ground state ensemble.
Above 200 MPa, the signal intensities of more than 20 methyl groups gradually
decreased with the increasing pressure, without the appearance of new
resonances. Interestingly, these residues closely matched those sensing a large
conformational change between the ground- and high-energy states, at
atmospheric pressure. 13C and 1H NMR line-shape simulations showed that the
pressure-induced loss in the peak intensity could be explained by the increase
in the high-energy state population. In this high-energy state, the aromatic
side chain of F114 gets flipped into the enlarged cavity. The accommodation of
the phenylalanine ring into the efficiently packed cavity may decrease the
partial molar volume of the high-energy state, relative to the ground state. We
suggest that the enlarged cavity is involved in the conformational transition
to high-energy states and in the volume fluctuation of the ground state.