It has been suggested that the compact open cluster VdBH 222 is a young
massive distant object. We set out to characterise VdBH 222 using a
comprehensive set of multi-wavelength observations. We obtained multi-band
optical (UBVR) and near-infrared (JHK) photometry of the cluster field, as well
as multi-object and long-slit optical spectroscopy for a large sample of stars
in the field. We applied classical photometric analysis, as well as more
sophisticated methods using the CHORIZOS code, to determine the reddening to
the cluster. We then plotted dereddened HR diagrams and determined cluster
parameters via isochrone fitting. We have identified a large population of
luminous supergiants confirmed as cluster members via radial velocity
measurements. We find nine red supergiants (plus one other candidate) and two
yellow supergiants. We also identify a large population of OB stars. Ten of
them are bright enough to be blue supergiants. The cluster lies behind 7.5 mag
of extinction for the preferred value of Rv of 2.9. Isochrone fitting allows
for a narrow range of ages between 12 and 16 Ma. The cluster radial velocity is
compatible with distances of 6 and 10 kpc. The shorter distance is inconsistent
with the age range and Galactic structure. The longer distance implies an age
of 12 Ma and a location not far from the position where some Galactic models
place the far end of the Galactic Bar. VdBH 222 is a young massive cluster with
a likely mass greater than 20000 Msolar . Its population of massive evolved
stars is comparable to that of large associations, such as Per OB1. Its
location in the inner Galaxy, presumably close to the end of the Galactic bar,
adds to the increasing evidence for vigorous star formation in the inner
regions of the Milky Way.