A fractal can be simply understood as a set or pattern in which there are far
more small things than large ones, e.g., far more small geographic features
than large ones on the earth surface, or far more large-scale maps than
small-scale maps for a geographic region. This paper attempts to argue and
provide evidence for the fractal nature of maps and mapping. It is the
underlying fractal structure of geographic features, either natural or
human-made, that make reality mappable, large-scale maps generalizable, and
cities imageable. The fractal nature is also what underlies the beauty of maps.
After introducing some key fractal concepts such as recursion, self-similarity,
scaling ratio, and scaling exponent, this paper demonstrates that fractal
thought is rooted in long-standing map-making practices such as series maps
subdivision, visual hierarchy, and T\"opfer's radical law. Drawing on previous
studies on head/tail breaks, mapping can be considered a head/tail breaks
process; that is to divide things around an average, according to their
geometric, topological and/or semantic properties, into the head (for those
above the average) and the tail (for those below the average), and recursively
continue the dividing process for the head for map generalization, statistical
mapping, and cognitive mapping. Given the fractal nature of maps and mapping,
cartography should be considered a perfect combination of science and art, and
scaling must be formulated as a law of cartography or that of geography in
general.
  Keywords: Scaling of geographic features, map generalization, statistical
mapping, cognitive mapping, head/tail breaks