The mechanical properties of a granular sample can depend on the way the
packing was prepared. However, the variables which store this information are
often unknown. Here we present an X-ray tomography study of tetrahedra packings
prepared with three different tapping strengths. Our main result is that the
relative contribution of the three different contact types possible between
tetrahedra -- face-to-face (F2F), edge-to-face (E2F), and point contacts -- is
one variable which stores the preparation history. We show this by preparing
pairs of packings that differ either in their bulk volume fraction
$\phi_{global}$ or in their number of mechanical constraints per particle $C$,
where $C$ is determined from all three contact types which each fix a different
amount of constraints. For the pairs with the same $\phi_{global}$ the number
of E2F and point contacts varies with preparation, while the number of F2F
contacts stays constant. For the iso-constraint packings the relative
contribution of all three contact types stays the same. We then perform a local
analysis of the contact distribution by grouping the particles together
according to their individual volume fraction $\phi_{local}$ computed from a
Voronoi tessellation. We find that the probability distribution of
$\phi_{local}$ depends only on $\phi_{global}$, not on $C$. The number of F2F
and E2F contacts increases in all experiments with $\phi_{local}$; the number
of point contacts, while always being the largest, decreases with
$\phi_{local}$. However, only the number of F2F contacts can be described by an
universal function of $\phi_{local}$. This behavior differs from spheres and
ellipsoids and posses a significant constraint for any mean-field approach to
tetrahedra packings.