In this report we tell the story of the notion "reduction of couplings" as we
witnessed it in the course of time. Born as an innocent child of
renormalization theory it first served the study of asymptotic behavior of
several couplings in a given model. Reduced couplings appeared as functions of
a primary one, compatible with the renormalization group equation and thus
solutions of a specific set of ordinary differential equations. If these
functions have the form of power series the respective theories resemble
standard renormalizable ones and thus widen considerably the area covered until
then by symmetries as a tool for constraining the number of couplings
consistently. Still on the more abstract level reducing couplings enabled one
to construct theories with beta-functions vanishing to all orders of
perturbation theory. Reduction of couplings became physicswise truely
interesting and phenomenologically important when applied to the standard model
and its possible extensions. In particular in the context of supersymmetric
theories it became the most powerful tool known today once it was learned how
to apply it also to couplings having dimension of mass and to mass parameters.
Technically this all relies on the basic property that reducing couplings is a
renormalization scheme independent procedure. Predictions of top and Higgs mass
prior to their experimental finding highlight the fundamental physical
significance of this notion. Twenty-two original articles and one set of
lectures are being commented, put into historical perspective and interrelated
with each other.