FUSE spectra of star-forming regions in nearby galaxies are compared to
composite spectra of Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs), binned by strength of Lyman
alpha emission and by mid-UV luminosity. Several far-UV spectral features,
including lines dominated by stellar wind and by photospheric components, are
very sensitive to stellar abundances. Their measurement in Lyman-break galaxies
is compromised by the strong interstellar absorption features, allowing in some
cases only upper limits. The derived C and N abundances in the LBGs are no
higher than half solar (scaled to oxygen abundance for comparison with
emission-line analyses), independent of the strength of Lyman alpha emission. P
V absorption indicates abundances as low as 0.1 solar, with an upper limit near
0.4 solar in the reddest and weakest-emission galaxies. Unresolved interstellar
absorption components would further lower the derived abundances. Trends of
line strength, and derived abundances, are stronger with mid-UV luminosity than
with Lyman-alpha strength. H2 absorption in the Lyman and Werner bands is very
weak in the LBGs. Template H2 absorption spectra convolved to appropriate
resolution show that strict upper limits N(H2)< 10^18 cm^-2 apply in all cases,
with more stringent values appropriate for the stronger-emission composites and
for mixes of H2 level populations like those on Milky Way sight lines. Since
the UV-bright regions are likely to be widespread in these galaxies, these
results rule out massive diffuse reservoirs of H2, and suggest that the
dust/gas ratio is already fairly large at z~3.