We compare various star formation rate (SFR) indicators for star-forming
galaxies at $1.4<z<2.5$ in the COSMOS field. The main focus is on the SFRs from
the far-IR (PACS-Herschel data) with those from the ultraviolet, for galaxies
selected according to the BzK criterion. FIR-selected samples lead to a vastly
different slope of the SFR-stellar mass ($M_*$) relation, compared to that of
the dominant main sequence population as measured from the UV, since the FIR
selection picks predominantly only a minority of outliers. However, there is
overall agreement between the main sequences derived with the two SFR
indicators, when stacking on the PACS maps the BzK-selected galaxies. The
resulting logarithmic slope of the SFR-{$M_*$} relation is $\sim0.8-0.9$, in
agreement with that derived from the dust-corrected UV-luminosity. Exploiting
deeper 24$\mu$m-Spitzer data we have characterized a sub-sample of galaxies
with reddening and SFRs poorly constrained, as they are very faint in the $B$
band. The combination of Herschel with Spitzer data have allowed us to largely
break the age/reddening degeneracy for these intriguing sources, by
distinguishing whether a galaxy is very red in B-z because of being heavily
dust reddened, or whether because star formation has been (or is being)
quenched. Finally, we have compared our SFR(UV) to the SFRs derived by stacking
the radio data and to those derived from the H$\alpha$ luminosity of a sample
of star-forming galaxies at $1.4<z<1.7$. The two sets of SFRs are broadly
consistent as they are with the SFRs derived from the UV and by stacking the
corresponding PACS data in various mass bins.