064<p type="texpara" tag="Body Text" et="abstract" bin="clone" >There are two
schools, or lines of thought, that try to unify the apparently divergent laws
of dynamics and thermodynamics and to explain the observed time-asymmetry of
the universe, and most of its sub-systems, in spite of the fact that these
systems are driven by time-symmetric evolution equations. They will be called
the coarse-graining and the fine-graining schools (even if these names describe
only a part of their philosophy). Coarse-graining school obtains time-asymmetry
via a projection of the state space on a space of ''relevant'' states. The
corresponding projection of the primitive reversible evolution laws yields
effective irreversible evolution laws for the relevant states. Fine-graining
always use the same primitive reversible evolution laws. But these laws (in
adequate extensions of the usual spaces where these laws are formulated) have a
set of solutions $S$ that can be decompose in two subsets $S_{+\text{}}$ and
$S_{-}$ of time asymmetric solutions. Choosing one of these two sets, as the
arena to formulate the theory, time asymmetry is established. The aim of these
lectures is to explain, in the simplest- self-contained, unbiased, and, honest
way, the main characteristics of both schools and to point out the advantages
and disadvantages of both formalism, in such a way that, the polemic between
the schools, turns out to be explicit and organized in the mind of the reader
(who will be considered the supreme judge to give the final verdict).
  064<p type="texpara" tag="Body Text" et="abstract" bin="clone" >Some
cosmological features of the theory will be also considered, mainly the problem
of the low entropy initial state of the universe