By shaking a sand box the grains on the top start to jump giving the picture
of evaporating a sand bulk, and a gaseous transition starts at the surface
granular matter (GM) bed. Moreover the mixture of the grains in the whole bed
starts to move in a cooperative way which is far away from a Brownian
description. In a previous work we have shown that the key element to describe
the statistics of this behavior is the exclusion of volume principle, whereby
the system obeys a Fermi configurational approach. Even though the experiment
involves an archetypal non-equilibrium system, we succeeded in defining a
global temperature, as the quantity associated to the Lagrange parameter in a
maximum entropic statistical description. In fact in order to close our
approach we had to generalize the equipartition theorem for dissipative
systems. Therefore we postulated, found and measured a fundamental dissipative
parameter, written in terms of pumping and gravitational energies, linking the
configurational entropy to the collective response for the expansion of the
centre of mass (c.m.) of the granular bed. Here we present a kinetic approach
to describe the experimental velocity distribution function (VDF) of this
non-Maxwellian gas of macroscopic Fermi-like particles (mFp). The evaporation
transition occurs mainly by jumping balls governed by the excluded volume
principle. Surprisingly in the whole range of low temperatures that we measured
this description reveals a lattice-gas, leading to a packing factor, which is
independent of the external parameters. In addition we measure the mean free
path, as a function of the driving frequency, and corroborate our prediction
from the present kinetic theory.