Modern communication receiver architectures center around digital signal
processing (DSP), with the bulk of the receiver processing being performed on
digital signals obtained after analog-to-digital conversion (ADC). In this
paper, we explore Shannon-theoretic performance limits when ADC precision is
drastically reduced, from typical values of 8-12 bits used in current
communication transceivers, to 1-3 bits. The goal is to obtain insight on
whether DSP-centric transceiver architectures are feasible as communication
bandwidths scale up, recognizing that high-precision ADC at high sampling rates
is either unavailable, or too costly or power-hungry. Specifically, we evaluate
the communication limits imposed by low-precision ADC for the ideal real
discrete-time Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) channel, under an average
power constraint on the input. For an ADC with K quantization bins (i.e., a
precision of log2 K bits), we show that the Shannon capacity is achievable by a
discrete input distribution with at most K + 1 mass points. For 2-bin (1-bit)
symmetric ADC, this result is tightened to show that binary antipodal signaling
is optimum for any signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). For multi-bit ADC, the capacity
is computed numerically, and the results obtained are used to make the
following encouraging observations regarding system design with low-precision
ADC : (a) even at moderately high SNR of up to 20 dB, 2-3 bit quantization
results in only 10-20% reduction of spectral efficiency, which is acceptable
for large communication bandwidths, (b) standard equiprobable pulse amplitude
modulation with ADC thresholds set to implement maximum likelihood hard
decisions is asymptotically optimum at high SNR, and works well at low to
moderate SNRs as well.