We model particle growth in a turbulent, viscously evolving protoplanetary
nebula, incorporating sticking, bouncing, fragmentation, and mass transfer at
high speeds. We treat small particles using a moments method and large
particles using a traditional histogram binning, including a probability
distribution function of collisional velocities. The fragmentation strength of
the particles depends on their composition (icy aggregates are stronger than
silicate aggregates). The particle opacity, which controls the nebula thermal
structure, evolves as particles grow and mass redistributes. While growing,
particles drift radially due to nebula headwind drag. Particles of different
compositions evaporate at "evaporation fronts" (EFs) where the midplane
temperature exceeds their respective evaporation temperatures. We track the
vapor and solid phases of each component, accounting for advection and radial
and vertical diffusion. We present characteristic results in evolutions lasting
$2 \times 10^5$ years. In general, (a) mass is transferred from the outer to
inner nebula in significant amounts, creating strong radial concentrations of
solids at EFs; (b) particle sizes are limited by a combination of
fragmentation, bouncing, and drift; (c) "lucky" large particles never represent
a significant amount of mass; and (d) restricted radial zones just outside each
EF become compositionally enriched in the associated volatiles. We point out
implications for mm-submm SEDs and inference of nebula mass, radial banding,
the role of opacity on new mechanisms for generating turbulence, enrichment of
meteorites in heavy oxygen isotopes, variable and nonsolar redox conditions,
primary accretion of silicate and icy planetesimals, and the makeup of
Jupiter's core.