We present a measurement of the cross-correlation of MgII absorption and
massive galaxies, using the DR11 main galaxy sample of the Baryon Oscillation
Spectroscopic Survey of SDSS-III (CMASS galaxies), and the DR7 quasar spectra
of SDSS-II. The cross-correlation is measured by stacking quasar absorption
spectra shifted to the redshift of galaxies that are within a certain impact
parameter bin of the quasar, after dividing by a quasar continuum model. This
results in an average MgII equivalent width as a function of impact parameter
from a galaxy, ranging from 50 kpc to more than 10 Mpc in proper units, which
includes all MgII absorbers. We show that special care needs to be taken to use
an unbiased quasar continuum estimator, to avoid systematic errors in the
measurement of the mean stacked MgII equivalent width. The measured
cross-correlation follows the expected shape of the galaxy correlation
function, although measurement errors are large. We use the cross-correlation
amplitude to derive the bias factor of MgII absorbers, finding bMgII = 2.33
\pm? 0.19, where the error accounts only for the statistical uncertainty in
measuring the mean equivalent width. This bias factor is larger than that
obtained in previous studies and may be affected by modeling uncertainties that
we discuss, but if correct it suggests that MgII absorbers at redshift z \simeq
0:5 are spatially distributed on large scales similarly to the CMASS galaxies
in BOSS.
  Keywords: galaxies: haloes, galaxies: formation, quasars: absorption lines,
large-scale structure of universe