We have analyzed nearly all images of the Taurus star-forming region at
3.6-24um that were obtained during the cryogenic mission of the Spitzer Space
Telescope (46 deg^2) and have measured photometry for all known members of the
region that are within these data, corresponding to 348 sources. We have
classified the members of Taurus according to whether they show evidence of
disks and envelopes (classes I, II, and III). The disk fraction in Taurus is
75% for solar-mass stars and declines to 45% for low-mass stars and brown
dwarfs (0.01-0.3 M_sun). This dependence on stellar mass is similar to that
measured for Cha I, although the disk fraction in Taurus is slightly higher
overall, probably because of its younger age (1 vs. 2-3 Myr). In comparison,
the disk fraction for solar-mass stars is much lower (20%) in IC 348 and Sigma
Ori, which are denser than Taurus and Cha I and are roughly coeval with the
latter. These data indicate that disk lifetimes for solar-mass stars are longer
in regions that have lower stellar densities. Through an analysis of multiple
epochs of photometry that are available for ~200 Taurus members, we find that
stars with disks exhibit significantly greater mid-IR variability than diskless
stars. Finally, we have used our data in Taurus to refine the criteria for
primordial, evolved, and transitional disks. The number ratio of evolved and
transitional disks to primordial disks in Taurus is 15/98 for K5-M5, indicating
a timescale of 0.15 x tau(primordial)=0.45 Myr for the clearing of the inner
regions of optically thick disks. After applying the same criteria to older
clusters (2-10 Myr), we find that the proportions of evolved and transitional
disks in those populations are consistent with the measurements in Taurus when
their star formation histories are properly taken into account. ERRATUM: In
Table 7, we inadvertently omitted the spectral type bins in which class II
sources were placed in Table 8 based on their bolometric luminosities (applies
only to stars that lack spectroscopic classifications). The bins were K6-M3.5
for FT Tau, DK Tau B, and IRAS 04370+2559, M3.5-M6 for IRAS 04200+2759, IT Tau
B, and ITG 1, and M6-M8 for IRAS 04325+2402 C. In addition, the values of
K_s-[3.6] in Table 13 and Figure 26 for spectral types of M4-M9 are incorrect.
We present corrected versions of Table 13 and Figure 26.