We present griz and H-band surface brightness profiles and bulge-disk
decompositions for a morphologically-broad sample of 286 Virgo cluster
galaxies. The H-band data come from a variety of sources including our survey
of 171 galaxies at the UH 2.2-m, CFHT and UKIRT telescopes, and another 115
galaxies from the Two-Micron All-Sky Survey and GOLDMine archives. The optical
data for all 286 Virgo galaxies were extracted from Sloan Digital Sky Survey
(SDSS) images. The H-band and SDSS griz data were analyzed in a homogeneous
manner using our own software, yielding a consistent set of deep, multi-band
surface brightness profiles for each galaxy. Average surface brightness
profiles per morphological bin were created in order to characterize the
variety of galaxy light profiles across the Hubble sequence. The 1D bulge-disk
decomposition parameters, as well as non-parametric galaxy measures, such as
effective radius, effective surface brightness and light concentration, are
presented for all 286 galaxies in each of the five optical/near-infrared
wavebands. The profile decompositions account for bulge and disk components,
spiral arms, nucleus and atmospheric blurring. The Virgo spiral galaxy bulges
typically have a Sersic index n ~ 1, while elliptical galaxies prefer n ~ 2. No
galaxy spheroid requires n > 3. The light profiles for 70% of the Virgo
elliptical galaxies reveal the presence of both a spheroid and disk component.
A more in-depth discussion of the structural parameter trends can be found in
McDonald et al (2009b). The data provided here should serve as a base for
studies of galaxy structure and stellar populations in the cluster environment.
The galaxy light profiles and bulge-disk decomposition results are available at
the Centre de Donnees astronomiques de Strasbourg (CDS;
http://cds.u-strasbg.fr) and the contributor's own website
(http://www.astro.queensu.ca/virgo).