Aims. We aim to explore the photosphere of the very cool late-type star VX
Sgr and in particular the existence and characterization of molecular layers
above the continuum forming photosphere. Methods. We obtained interferometric
observations with the VLTI/AMBER interferometer using the fringe tracker FINITO
in the spectral domain 1.45-2.50 micron with a spectral resolution of about 35
and baselines ranging from 15 to 88 meters.We perform independent image
reconstruction for different wavelength bins and fit the interferometric data
with a geometrical toy model.We also compare the data to 1D dynamical models of
Miras atmosphere and to 3D hydrodynamical simulations of red supergiant (RSG)
and asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars. Results. Reconstructed images and
visibilities show a strong wavelength dependence. The H-band images display two
bright spots whose positions are confirmed by the geometrical toy model. The
inhomogeneities are qualitatively predicted by 3D simulations. At about 2,00
micron and in the region 2,35 - 2,50 micron, the photosphere appears extended
and the radius is larger than in the H band. In this spectral region, the
geometrical toy model locates a third bright spot outside the photosphere that
can be a feature of the molecular layers. The wavelength dependence of the
visibility can be qualitatively explained by 1D dynamical models of Mira
atmospheres. The best-fitting photospheric models show a good match with the
observed visibilities and give a photospheric diameter of theta = 8,82+-0,50
mas. The H2O molecule seems to be the dominant absorber in the molecular
layers. Conclusions. We show that the atmosphere of VX Sgr rather resembles
Mira/AGB star model atmospheres than RSG model atmospheres. In particular, we
see molecular (water) layers that are typical for Mira stars.