Granular materials transmit stress via a network of force chains. Despite the
importance of these chains to characterizing the stress state and dynamics of
the system, there is no common framework for quantifying their their
properties. Recently, attention has turned to the tools of network science as a
promising route to such a description. In this paper, we apply community
detection techniques to numerically-generated packings of spheres over a range
of interparticle friction coefficients and confining pressures. In order to
extract chain-like features, we use a modularity maximization with a
recently-developed geographical null model \cite{Bassett2015}, and optimize the
technique to detect branched structures by minimizing the normalized convex
hull of the detected communities. We characterize the force chain communities
by their size (number of particles), network strength (internal forces), and
normalized convex hull ratio (sparseness). We find the that the first two
exhibit an approximately linear correlation and are therefore largely
redundant. For both pressure $P$ and interparticle friction $\mu$, we observe
crossovers in behavior. For $\mu \lesssim 0.1$, the packings exhibit more
sensitivity to pressure. In addition, we identify a crossover pressure where
the frictional dependence switches from having more large/strong communities at
low $\mu$ vs. high $\mu$. We explain these phenomena by comparison to the
spatial distribution of communities along the vertical axis of the system.
These results provide new tools for considering the mesoscale structure of a
granular system and pave the way for reduced descriptions based on the force
chain structure.