Bit Patterned Media (BPM) for magnetic recording provide a route to densities
$>1 Tb/in^2$ and circumvents many of the challenges associated with
conventional granular media technology. Instead of recording a bit on an
ensemble of random grains, BPM uses an array of lithographically defined
isolated magnetic islands, each of which stores one bit. Fabrication of BPM is
viewed as the greatest challenge for its commercialization. In this article we
describe a BPM fabrication method which combines e-beam lithography, directed
self-assembly of block copolymers, self-aligned double patterning, nanoimprint
lithography, and ion milling to generate BPM based on CoCrPt alloys. This
combination of fabrication technologies achieves feature sizes of $<10 nm$,
significantly smaller than what conventional semiconductor nanofabrication
methods can achieve. In contrast to earlier work which used hexagonal
close-packed arrays of round islands, our latest approach creates BPM with
rectangular bitcells, which are advantageous for integration with existing hard
disk drive technology. The advantages of rectangular bits are analyzed from a
theoretical and modeling point of view, and system integration requirements
such as servo patterns, implementation of write synchronization, and providing
for a stable head-disk interface are addressed in the context of experimental
results. Optimization of magnetic alloy materials for thermal stability,
writeability, and switching field distribution is discussed, and a new method
for growing BPM islands on a patterned template is presented. New recording
results at $1.6 Td/in^2$ (teradot/inch${}^2$, roughly equivalent to $1.3
Tb/in^2$) demonstrate a raw error rate $<10^{-2}$, which is consistent with the
recording system requirements of modern hard drives. Extendibility of BPM to
higher densities, and its eventual combination with energy assisted recording
are explored.