We investigate the dynamical evolution of compact young clusters (CYCs) near
the Galactic center (GC) using Fokker-Planck models. CYCs are very young (< 5
Myr), compact (< 1 pc), and only a few tens of pc away from the GC, while they
appear to be as massive as the smallest Galactic globular clusters (~10^4
Msun). A survey of cluster lifetimes for various initial mass functions,
cluster masses, and galactocentric radii is presented. Short relaxation times
due to the compactness of CYCs, and the strong tidal fields near the GC make
clusters evaporate fairly quickly. Depending on cluster parameters, mass
segregation may occur on a time scale shorter than the lifetimes of most
massive stars, which accelerates the cluster's dynamical evolution even more.
When the difference between the upper and lower mass boundaries of the initial
mass function is large enough, strongly selective ejection of lighter stars
makes massive stars dominate even in the outer regions of the cluster, so the
dynamical evolution of those clusters is weakly dependent on the lower mass
boundary. The mass bins for Fokker-Planck simulations were carefully chosen to
properly account for a relatively small number of the most massive stars. We
find that clusters with a mass <~ 2x10^4 Msun evaporate in <~ 10 Myr. A simple
calculation based on the total masses in observed CYCs and the lifetimes
obtained here indicates that the massive CYCs comprise only a fraction of the
star formation rate (SFR) in the inner bulge estimated from Lyman continuum
photons and far-IR observations.