We use the Zurich ENvironmental Study (ZENS) database to investigate the
environmental dependence of the merger fraction $\Gamma$ and merging galaxy
properties in a sample of ~1300 group galaxies with $M>10^{9.2}M_\odot$ and
0.05<z<0.0585. In all galaxy mass bins investigated in our study, we find that
$\Gamma$ decreases by a factor of ~2-3 in groups with halo masses
$M_{HALO}>10^{13.5} M_\odot$ relative to less massive systems, indicating a
suppression of merger activity in large potential wells. In the fiducial case
of relaxed groups only, we measure a variation $\Delta\Gamma/\Delta \log
(M_{HALO}) \sim - 0.07$ dex$^{-1}$, which is almost independent of galaxy mass
and merger stage. At galaxy masses $>10^{10.2} M_\odot$, most mergers are dry
accretions of quenched satellites onto quenched centrals, leading to a strong
increase of $\Gamma$ with decreasing group-centric distance at these mass
scales.Both satellite and central galaxies in these high mass mergers do not
differ in color and structural properties from a control sample of nonmerging
galaxies of equal mass and rank. At galaxy masses $<10^{10.2} M_\odot$, where
we mostly probe satellite-satellite pairs and mergers between star-forming
systems, close pairs (projected distance $<10-20$ kpc) show instead
$\sim2\times$ enhanced (specific) star formation rates and $\sim1.5\times$
larger sizes than similar mass, nonmerging satellites. The increase in both
size and SFR leads to similar surface star-formation densities in the merging
and control-sample satellite populations.