We present HST/STIS long-slit spectroscopy of NGC 1976. Our goal is to
measure the intrinsic line ratio [O III] 4364/5008 and thereby evaluate the
electron temperature (T_e) and the fractional mean-square T_e variation (t_A^2)
across the nebula. We also measure the intrinsic line ratio [N II] 5756/6585 in
order to estimate T_e and t_A^2 in the N^+ region. The interpretation of the [N
II] data is not as clear cut as the [O III] data because of a higher
sensitivity to knowledge of the electron density as well as a possible
contribution to the [N II] 5756 emission by recombination (and cascading). We
present results from binning the data along the various slits into tiles that
are 0.5" square (matching the slit width). The average [O III] temperature for
our four HST/STIS slits varies from 7678 K to 8358 K; t_A^2 varies from 0.00682
to at most 0.0176. For our preferred solution, the average [N II] temperature
for each of the four slits varies from 9133 K to 10232 K; t_A^2 varies from
0.00584 to 0.0175. The measurements of T_e reported here are an average along
each line of sight. Therefore, despite finding remarkably low t_A^2, we cannot
rule out significantly larger temperature fluctuations along the line of sight.
The result that the average [N II] T_e exceeds the average [O III] T_e confirms
what has been previously found for Orion and what is expected on theoretical
grounds. Observations of the proplyd P159-350 indicate: large local extinction
associated; ionization stratification consistent with external ionization by
theta^1 Ori C; and indirectly, evidence of high electron density.