Compiled radio spectra are presented for 208 extragalactic sources from the
catalog created from the WMAP satellite all-sky survey data in a range of 23-94
GHz taken during the first year of its operation in orbit. 205 out of 208 WMAP
sources are reliably identified with radio sources from other catalogs,
including also four out of five sources unidentified by the WMAP survey
contributors. We have found 203 WMAP sources to have optical identification: 141
quasars, 29 galaxies, 19 active galactic nuclei, 19 BL Lac-type objects and one
planetary nebula, IC418. Simultaneous measurements of flux densities for 26
sources at five frequencies, 2.3, 3.9, 7.7, 11.2 and 21.7 GHz, were made with
the radio telescope RATAN-600 in 2003 March. 25 sources were detected at all
the frequencies, and only one, WMAP0517-0546, unidentified in other catalogs
was not detected in our observations and is likely to be spurious. Using the
database CATS we found a large number of identifications in different radio
catalogs and in several long-term monitoring programs (GBI, UMRAO, SEST, IRAM,
and others). The total number of flux density measurements that we collected in
the frequency range from 10 MHz to 245 GHz for the identified WMAP sources is
over 206,000, varying from 10-20 points for some southern sources to a few
thousand points for sources from long-term monitorings. A considerable number
of WMAP sources are variable on time scales from hours to dozens of years,
nevertheless, the obtained integral spectra, including measurements in
different years, may be of particular interest because these bright sources
have been studied for more than forty years. The general character of the
spectrum (power, flat, with a turnovers at low or high frequencies) of the WMAP
sources remains unchanged.