We investigate the redshift and luminosity evolution of the galaxy
colour-density relation using the data from the First Epoch VIMOS-VLT Deep
Survey (VVDS). The size (6582 galaxies), depth (I_AB<=24) and redshift sampling
rate of the survey enable us to reconstruct the 3D galaxy environment on
relatively local scales (R=5 Mpc) up to z~1.5. Particular attention has been
devoted to calibrate a density reconstruction scheme, which factors out survey
selection effects and reproduces in an unbiased way the underlying `real'
galaxy environment. While at lower redshift we confirm the existence of a steep
colour-density relation, with the fraction of the reddest(/bluest) galaxies of
the same luminosity increasing(/decreasing) as a function of density, this
trend progressively disappears in the highest redshift bins investigated. The
rest frame u*-g' colour-magnitude diagram shows a bimodal pattern in both low
and high density environments up to z~1.5. We find that the bimodal
distribution is not universal but strongly depends upon environment: at lower
redshifts the colour-magnitude diagrams in low and high density regions are
significantly different while the progressive weakening of the colour-density
relation causes the two bimodal distributions to nearly mirror each other in
the highest redshift bin investigated. Both the colour-density and the
colour-magnitude-density relations appear to be a transient, cumulative product
of genetic and environmental factors operating over at least a period of 9 Gyr.
These findings support an evolutionary scenario in which star formation/gas
depletion processes are accelerated in more luminous objects and in high
density environments: star formation activity is shifting with cosmic time
towards lower luminosity (downsizing), and out of high density environments.