We poorly understand the properties of amorphous systems at small length
scales, where a continuous elastic description breaks down. This is apparent
when one considers their vibrational and transport properties, or the way
forces propagate in these solids. Little is known about the microscopic cause
of their rigidity. Recently it has been observed numerically that an assembly
of elastic particles has a critical behavior near the jamming threshold where
the pressure vanishes. At the transition such a system does not behave as a
continuous medium at any length scales. When this system is compressed, scaling
is observed for the elastic moduli, the coordination number, but also for the
density of vibrational modes. In the present work we derive theoretically these
results, and show that they apply to various systems such as granular matter
and silica, but also to colloidal glasses. In particular we show that: (i)
these systems present a large excess of vibrational modes at low frequency in
comparison with normal solids, called the "boson peak" in the glass literature.
The corresponding modes are very different from plane waves, and their
frequency is related to the system coordination; (ii) rigidity is a non-local
property of the packing geometry, characterized by a length scale which can be
large. For elastic particles this length diverges near the jamming transition;
(iii) for repulsive systems the shear modulus can be much smaller than the bulk
modulus. We compute the corresponding scaling laws near the jamming threshold.
Finally, we discuss the applications of these results to the glass transition,
the transport, and the geometry of the random close packing.