We consider a secure source coding problem with a rate-limited helper. In
particular, Alice observes an independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.)
source X and wishes to transmit this source losslessly to Bob over a
rate-limited link. A helper (Helen), observes an i.i.d. correlated source Y and
can transmit information to Bob over a separate rate-limited link. A passive
eavesdropper (Eve) can observe the coded output of Alice, i.e., the link from
Alice to Bob is public. The uncertainty about the source X at Eve, is measured
by the conditional entropy of the source given the coded output of Alice. We
completely characterize the rate-equivocation region for this secure source
coding model, where we show that Slepian-Wolf binning of X with respect to the
coded side information received at Bob is optimal. We next consider a
modification of this model in which Alice also has access to the coded output
of Helen. For the two-sided helper model, we characterize the rate-equivocation
region. While the availability of side information at Alice does not reduce the
rate of transmission from Alice, it significantly enhances the resulting
equivocation at Eve. In particular, the resulting equivocation for the
two-sided helper case is shown to be min(H(X),R_y), i.e., one bit from the
two-sided helper provides one bit of uncertainty at Eve. From this result, we
infer that Slepian-Wolf binning of X is suboptimal and one can further decrease
the information leakage to the eavesdropper by utilizing the side information
at Alice. We finally generalize these results to the case in which there is
additional un-coded side information W available at Bob and characterize the
rate-equivocation regions under the assumption that Y-X-W forms a Markov chain.