We use a dense, complete redshift survey, the Smithsonian Hectospec Lensing
Survey (SHELS), covering a 4 square degree region of a deep imaging survey, the
Deep Lens Survey (DLS), to study the optical spectral properties of Wide-field
Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) 22 \mu m-selected galaxies. Among 507 WISE 22
\mu m-selected sources with (S/N)_{22\mu m}>3 (\simS_{22\mu m}>2.5 mJy), we
identify the optical counterparts of 481 sources (\sim98%) at R<25.2 in the
very deep, DLS R-band source catalog. Among them, 337 galaxies at R<21 have
SHELS spectroscopic data. Most of these objects are at z<0.8. The infrared (IR)
luminosities are in the range 4.5x10^8 (L_sun) < L_{IR} < 5.4x10^{12} (L_sun).
Most 22 \mu m-selected galaxies are dusty star-forming galaxies with a small
(<1.5) 4000 \AA break. The stacked spectra of the 22 \mu m-selected galaxies
binned in IR luminosity show that the strength of the [O III] line relative to
H\beta grows with increasing IR luminosity. The optical spectra of the 22 \mu
m-selected galaxies also show that there are some (\sim2.8%) unusual galaxies
with very strong [Ne III] \lambda 3869, 3968 emission lines that require hard
ionizing radiation such as AGN or extremely young massive stars. The specific
star formation rates (sSFRs) derived from the 3.6 and 22 \mu m flux densities
are enhanced if the 22 \mu m-selected galaxies have close late-type neighbors.
The sSFR distribution of the 22 \mu m-selected galaxies containing active
galactic nuclei (AGNs) is similar to the distribution for star-forming galaxies
without AGNs. We identify 48 dust-obscured galaxy (DOG) candidates with large
(\gtrsim1000) mid-IR to optical flux density ratio. The combination of deep
photometric and spectroscopic data with WISE data suggests that WISE can probe
the universe to z\sim2.