We present a new method to test the cosmological model, and to estimate the
cosmological parameters, based on the non-linear relation between ultraviolet
and X-ray luminosity of quasars. We built a data set of ~1,250 quasars by
merging several literature samples with X-ray measurements at 2 keV and SDSS
photometry, which was used to estimate the extinction-corrected 2500~\AA\ flux.
We obtained three main results: (1) we checked the non-linear relation between
X-ray and UV luminosities in small redshift bins up to z~6, confirming that it
holds at all redshifts with the same slope; (2) we built a Hubble diagram for
quasars up to z~6, which is well matched to that of supernovae in the common
z=0-1.4 redshift interval, and extends the test of the cosmological model up to
z~6; (3) we showed that this non-linear relation is a powerful tool to estimate
cosmological parameters. With present data, assuming a $\Lambda$CDM model, we
obtain $\Omega_M$=0.21$^{+0.08}_{-0.10}$ and
$\Omega_\Lambda$=0.95$^{+0.30}_{-0.20}$ ($\Omega_M$=0.28$\pm$0.04 and
$\Omega_\Lambda$=0.74$\pm0.08$ from a joint quasar-SNe fit). However, much more
precise measurements will be achieved in the future. A few thousands SDSS
quasars already have serendipitous X-ray observations with Chandra or
XMM-Newton, and at least 100,000 quasars with UV and X-ray data will be
available from the eROSITA all-sky survey in a few years. Euclid, LSST, and
Athena surveys will further increase the sample size to at least several
hundred thousands. Our simulations show that these samples will provide tight
constraints on the cosmological parameters, and will allow to test possible
deviations from the standard model with higher precisions than available today.