We study the potential of weak lensing surveys to detect clusters of
galaxies, using a fast Particle Mesh cosmological N-body simulation algorithm
specifically tailored to investigate the statistics of these mass-selected
clusters. In particular, we explore the degree to which the radial positions of
galaxy clusters can be determined tomographically, by using photometric
redshifts of background source galaxies. We quantify the errors in the
tomographic redshifts, and study their dependence on mass, redshift, detection
significance, and filtering scheme. A Tomographic Matched Filtering (TMF)
scheme, which combines tomography and matched filtering, is introduced, which
optimally detects clusters of galaxies in weak lensing surveys. The TMF
exploits the extra information provided by photometric redshifts of background
source galaxies, neglected in previous studies, to optimally weight the
sources. The efficacy and reliability of the TMF is investigated using a large
ensemble of mock observations from our simulations and detailed comparisons are
made to other filters. Using photometric redshift information with the TMF
enhances the number of clusters detected with S/N > 4.5 by as much as 76%, and
it increases the dynamic range of weak lensing searches for clusters, detecting
more high redshift clusters and extending the mass sensitivity down to the
scale of large groups. Furthermore, we find that coarsely binning source
galaxies in as few as three redshift bins is sufficient to realize the gains of
the TMF. Thus, the tomographic filtering techniques presented here can be
applied to current ground based weak lensing data in as few as three bands.
Cosmological applications of mass selected cluster samples are also discussed.
(abridged)