We study the spectroscopic properties of a large sample of Low Surface
Brightness galaxies (LSBGs) (with B-band central surface brightness mu0(B)>22
mag arcsec^(-2)) selected from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 4
(SDSS-DR4) main galaxy sample. A large sample of disk-dominated High Surface
Brightness galaxies (HSBGs, with mu0(B)<22 mag arcsec^(-2)) are also selected
for comparison simultaneously. To study them in more details, these sample
galaxies are further divided into four subgroups according to mu0(B) (in units
of mag arcsec^(-2)): vLSBGs (24.5-22.75),iLSBGs (22.75-22.0), iHSBGs
(22.0-21.25), and vHSBGs (<21.25). The diagnostic diagram from spectral
emission-line ratios shows that the AGN fractions of all the four subgroups are
small (<9%). The 21,032 star-forming galaxies with good quality spectroscopic
observations are further selected for studying their dust extinction,
strong-line ratios, metallicities and stellar mass-metallicities relations. The
vLSBGs have lower extinction values and have less metal-rich and massive
galaxies than the other subgroups. The oxygen abundances of our LSBGs are not
as low as those of the HII regions in LSBGs studied in literature, which could
be because our samples are more luminous, and because of the different
metallicity calibrations used. We find a correlation between 12+log(O/H) and
mu0(B) for vLSBGs, iLSBGs and iHSBGs but show that this could be a result of
correlation between mu0(B) and stellar mass and the well-known mass-metallicity
relation. This large sample shows that LSBGs span a wide range in metallicity
and stellar mass, and they lie nearly on the stellar mass vs. metallicity and
N/O vs. O/H relations of normal galaxies. This suggests that LSBGs and HSBGs
have not had dramatically different star formation and chemical enrichment
histories.