In this paper, we present the simulations for the primordial blue stragglers
in the old open cluster M67 based on detailed modelling of the evolutionary
processes. The principal aim is to discuss the contribution of mass transfer
between the components of close binaries to the blue straggler population in
M67. First, we followed the evolution of a binary of 1.4M$_\odot$+0.9M$_\odot$.
The synthetic evolutionary track of the binary system revealed that a
primordial blue straggler had a long lifetime in the observed blue straggler
region of color-magnitude diagram. Second, a grid of models for close binary
systems experiencing mass exchange were computed from 1Gyr to 6Gyr in order to
account for primordial blue-straggler formation in a time sequence. Based on
such a grid, Monte-Carlo simulations were applied for the old open cluster M67.
Adopting appropriate orbital parameters, 4 primordial blue stragglers were
predicted by our simulations. This was consistent with the observational fact
that only a few blue stragglers in M67 were binaries with short orbital
periods. An upper boundary of the primordial blue stragglers in the
color-magnitude diagram (CMD) was defined and could be used to distinguish blue
stragglers that were not formed via mass exchange. Using the grid of binary
models, the orbital periods of the primordial BSs could be predicted. Compared
with the observations, it is clear that the mechanism discussed in this work
alone cannot fully predict the blue straggler population in M67. There must be
several other processes also involved in the formation of the observed blue
stragglers in M67.