We present the first self-consistent simulations of the coupled spin-shape
evolution of small gravitational aggregates under the influence of the YORP
effect. Because of YORP's sensitivity to surface topography, even small
centrifugally driven reconfigurations of aggregates can alter the YORP torque
dramatically, resulting in spin evolution that can differ qualitatively from
the rigid-body prediction. One third of our simulations follow a simple
evolution described as a modified YORP cycle. Two-thirds exhibit one or more of
three distinct behaviors---stochastic YORP, self-governed YORP, and stagnating
YORP---which together result in YORP self-limitation. Self-limitation confines
rotation rates of evolving aggregates to far narrower ranges than those
expected in the classical YORP cycle, greatly prolonging the times over which
objects can preserve their sense of rotation. Simulated objects are initially
randomly packed, disordered aggregates of identical spheres in rotating
equilibrium, with low internal angles of friction. Their shape evolution is
characterized by rearrangement of the entire body, including the deep interior.
They do not evolve to axisymmetric top shapes with equatorial ridges. Mass loss
occurs in one-third of the simulations, typically in small amounts from the
ends of a prolate-triaxial body. We conjecture that YORP self-limitation may
inhibit formation of top-shapes, binaries, or both, by restricting the amount
of angular momentum that can be imparted to a deformable body. Stochastic YORP,
in particular, will affect the evolution of collisional families whose orbits
drift apart under the influence of Yarkovsky forces, in observable ways.