We measure the flow of granular materials inside a quasi-two dimensional silo
as it drains and compare the data with some existing models. The particles
inside the silo are imaged and tracked with unprecedented resolution in both
space and time to obtain their velocity and diffusion properties. The data
obtained by varying the orifice width and the hopper angle allows us to
thoroughly test models of gravity driven flows inside these geometries. All of
our measured velocity profiles are smooth and free of the shock-like
discontinuities ("rupture zones") predicted by critical state soil mechanics.
On the other hand, we find that the simple Kinematic Model accurately captures
the mean velocity profile near the orifice, although it fails to describe the
rapid transition to plug flow far away from the orifice. The measured diffusion
length $b$, the only free parameter in the model, is not constant as usually
assumed, but increases with both the height above the orifice and the angle of
the hopper. We discuss improvements to the model to account for the
differences. From our data, we also directly measure the diffusion of the
particles and find it to be significantly less than predicted by the Void
Model, which provides the classical microscopic derivation of the Kinematic
Model in terms of diffusing voids in the packing. However, the experimental
data is consistent with the recently proposed Spot Model, based on a simple
mechanism for cooperative diffusion. Finally, we discuss the flow rate as a
function of the orifice width and hopper angles. We find that the flow rate
scales with the orifice size to the power of 1.5, consistent with dimensional
analysis. Interestingly, the flow rate increases when the funnel angle is
increased.