In order to study the acceleration and propagation of
bremsstrahlung-producing electrons in solar flares, we analyze the evolution of
the flare loop size with respect to energy at a variety of times. A GOES M3.7
loop-structured flare starting around 23:55 on 2002 April 14 is studied in
detail using \textit{Ramaty High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager}
(\textit{RHESSI}) observations. We construct photon and mean-electron-flux maps
in 2-keV energy bins by processing observationally-deduced photon and electron
visibilities, respectively, through several image-processing methods: a
visibility-based forward-fit (FWD) algorithm, a maximum entropy (MEM) procedure
and the uv-smooth (UVS) approach. We estimate the sizes of elongated flares
(i.e., the length and width of flaring loops) by calculating the second
normalized moments of the intensity in any given map. Employing a collisional
model with an extended acceleration region, we fit the loop lengths as a
function of energy in both the photon and electron domains. The resulting
fitting parameters allow us to estimate the extent of the acceleration region
which is between $\sim 13 \rm{arcsec}$ and $\sim 19 \rm{arcsec}$. Both
forward-fit and uv-smooth algorithms provide substantially similar results with
a systematically better fit in the electron domain.The consistency of the
estimates from these methods provides strong support that the model can
reliably determine geometric parameters of the acceleration region. The
acceleration region is estimated to be a substantial fraction ($\sim 1/2$) of
the loop extent, indicating that this dense flaring loop incorporates both
acceleration and transport of electrons, with concurrent thick-target
bremsstrahlung emission.