We present a variability analysis of the early-release first quarter of data
publicly released by the Kepler project. Using the stellar parameters from the
Kepler Input Catalog, we have separated the sample into 129,000 dwarfs and
17,000 giants, and further sub-divided the luminosity classes into temperature
bins corresponding approximately to the spectral classes A, F, G, K, and M.
Utilizing the inherent sampling and time baseline of the public dataset (30
minute sampling and 33.5 day baseline), we have explored the variability of the
stellar sample. The overall variability rate of the dwarfs is 25% for the
entire sample, but can reach 100% for the brightest groups of stars in the
sample. G-dwarfs are found to be the most stable with a dispersion floor of
$\sigma \sim 0.04$ mmag. At the precision of Kepler, $>95$% of the giant stars
are variable with a noise floor of $\sim 0.1$ mmag, 0.3 mmag, and 10 mmag for
the G-giants, K-giants, and M-giants, respectively. The photometric dispersion
of the giants is consistent with acoustic variations of the photosphere; the
photometrically-derived predicted radial velocity distribution for the K-giants
is in agreement with the measured radial velocity distribution. We have also
briefly explored the variability fraction as a function of dataset baseline (1
- 33 days), at the native 30-minute sampling of the public Kepler data. To
within the limitations of the data, we find that the overall variability
fractions increase as the dataset baseline is increased from 1 day to 33 days,
in particular for the most variable stars. The lower mass M-dwarf, K-dwarf,
G-dwarf stars increase their variability more significantly than the higher
mass F-dwarf and A-dwarf stars as the time-baseline is increased, indicating
that the variability of the lower mass stars is mostly characterized by
timescales of weeks whi...astroph will not allow longer abstract!