A 321.5 s modulation was discovered in 1999 in the X-ray light curve of HM
Cnc. In 2001 and 2002, optical photometric and spectroscopic observations
revealed that HM Cnc is a very blue object with no intrinsic absorptions but
broad (FWHM 1500 km s^-1) low equivalent width emission lines (EW 1-6A), which
were first identified with the HeII Pickering series. The combination of X-ray
and optical observations pictures HM Cnc as a double degenerate binary hosting
two white dwarfs, and possibly being the shortest orbital period binary
discovered so far. The present work is aimed at studying the orbital motion of
the two components by following the variations of the shape, centroid and
intensity of the emission lines through the orbit. In February 2007, we carried
out the first phase resolved optical spectroscopic study with the VLT/FORS2 in
the High Time Resolution (HIT) mode, yielding five phase bins in the 321 s
modulation. Despite the low SNR, the data show that the intensity of the three
most prominent emission lines, already detected in 2001, varies with the phase.
These lines are detected at phases 0.2-0.6 where the optical emission peaks,
and marginally detected or not detected at all elsewhere. Moreover, the FWHM of
the emission lines in the phase resolved spectra is smaller, by almost a factor
2, than that in the the phase-averaged 2001 spectrum. Our results are
consistent with both the pulsed optical component and emission lines
originating in the same region which we identify with the irradiated surface of
the secondary. Moreover, regardless of the origin of the un-pulsed optical
continuum, we note that the EWs of the emission lines might be up to -15 /
-25A, larger than thought before; these values are more similar to those
detected in cataclysmic variables. All the findings further confirm that the
321s modulation observed in HM Cnc is the orbital period of the system, the
shortest known to date.