The holographic solution is a new exact solution to the Einstein field
equations. It describes a compact self-gravitating object with properties
similar to a black hole. Its entropy and temperature at infinity are
proportional to the Hawking result. Instead of an event horizon, the
holographic solution has a real spherical boundary membrane, situated roughly
two Planck distances outside of the object's gravitational radius. The interior
matter-state is singularity free. It consists out of string type matter, which
is densely packed. Each string has a transverse extension of exactly one Planck
area. This dense package of strings might be the reason, why the solution does
not collapse to a singularity. The local string tension is inverse proportional
to the average string length. This purely classical result has its almost exact
correspondence in a recent result in string theory. The holographic solution
suggest, that string theory is relevant also on cosmological scales. The large
scale phenomena in the universe can be explained naturally in a string context.
Due to the zero active gravitational mass-density of the strings the Hubble
constant in a string dominated universe is related to its age by H t = 1. The
WMAP measurements have determined H t \approx 1.02 \pm 0.02 experimentally. The
nearly unaccelerated expansion in a string dominated universe is compatible
with the recent supernova measurements. Under the assumption, that the cold
dark matter (CDM) consists out of strings, the ratio of CDM to baryonic matter
is estimated as \Omega_CDM / \Omega_b \approx 6.45. Some arguments are given,
which suggest that the universe might be constructed hierarchically out of its
most basic building blocks: strings and membranes.