The role of the moon in triggering earthquakes has been studied since the
early 1900s. Theory states that as land tides swept by the moon cross fault
lines, stress in the Earth's plates intensifies, increasing the likelihood of
small earthquakes. This paper studied the association of the moon and sun with
larger magnitude earthquakes (magnitude 5 and greater) using a worldwide
dataset from the USGS.
  Initially, the positions of the moon and sun were considered separately. The
moon showed a reduction of 1.74% (95% confidence) in earthquakes when it was 10
hours behind a longitude on earth and a 1.62% increase when it was 6 hours
behind. The sun revealed even weaker associations (<1%). Binning the data in 6
hours quadrants (matching natural tide cycles) reduced the associations
further.
  However, combinations of moon-sun positions displayed significant
associations. Cycling the moon and sun in all possible quadrant permutations
showed a decrease in earthquakes when they were paired together on the East and
West horizons of an earthquake longitude (4.57% and 2.31% reductions). When the
moon and sun were on opposite sides of a longitude, there was often a small
(about 1%) increase in earthquakes.
  Reducing the bin size from 6 hours to 1 hour produced noisy results. By
examining the outliers in the data, a pattern emerged that was independent of
earthquake longitude. The results showed a significant decrease (3.33% less
than expected) in earthquakes when the sun was located near the moon. There was
an increase (2.23%) when the moon and sun were on opposite sides of the Earth.
  The association with earthquakes independent of terrestrial longitude
suggests that the combined moon-sun tidal forces act deep below the Earth's
crust where circumferential forces are weaker.