1743 data calculated for 249 high-z SCP Union supernovae are analysed
according to the expansion center model (ECM). The analysis in Hubble units
begins with 13 listed normal points corresponding to 13 z-bin samples at as
many Hubble depths. The novel finding is a clear drop in the average scattering
of the SNe Ia Hubble Magnitude M with the ECM Hubble depth D, after using the
average trend <M> computed in paper IX. Other correlations of the M scattering
with the position in the sky are proposed. Consequently, 13 ECM dipole tests on
the 13 z-bin samples were carried out both with unweighted and weighted
fittings. A further check was made with Hubble depths D obtained by assuming
M=<M> according to paper IX and XV. In conclusion the analysis of 249 SCPU SNe
confirms once again the expansion center model at any Hubble depth, including a
strengthening perturbation effect of the M scattering at decreasing z<0.5. A
new successful dipole test introduces the absolute magnitude analysis of 398
SCPU supernovae. After testing 14 high-z normal points <MB> from paper IX Table
2, a trend analysis of another 15 and 30 normal points of the Hubble Magnitude
M and a new absolute magnitude M*, at increasing <z>=z0 corresponding to a
different series of z bins, leads to the discovery of the magnitude anomaly of
the low <z> points. When the low <z> points are excluded, the best fittings
make it possible to extrapolate the SNe Ia absolute magnitude M0 at a central
redshift z0=0, with M0=-17.9+-0.1 and a few final ECM solutions of the SNe Ia
<M> and M*. The magnitude anomaly is here interpreted as due to a deficiency in
the magnitude formulas used; these produce a maximum peak of deviation in the
range 0.04 < <z> < 0.08. That is a proof of the Universe rotation within the
expansion center model.