We have reanalyzed the existing data on Zinc abundances in damped Ly-alpha
(DLA) absorbers to investigate whether their mean metallicity evolves with
time. Most models of cosmic chemical evolution predict that the mass- weighted
mean interstellar metallicity of galaxies should rise with time from a low
value ~ 1/30 solar at z ~ 3 to a nearly solar value at z ~ 0. However, several
previous analyses have suggested that there is little or no evolution in the
global metallicity of DLAs. We have used a variety of statistical techniques to
quantify the global metallicity-redshift relation and its uncertainties, taking
into account both measurement and sampling errors. Three new features of our
analysis are: (a) an unbinned N(H I)-weighted nonlinear chi-square fit to an
exponential relation; (b) survival analysis to treat the large number of limits
in the existing data; and (c) a comparison of the data with several models of
cosmic chemical evolution based on an unbinned N(H I)-weighted chi-square. We
find that a wider range of evolutionary rates is allowed by the present data
than claimed in previous studies. The slope of the exponential fit to the N(H
I)-weighted mean Zn metallicity vs. redshift relation is -0.20 plus minus 0.11
counting limits as detections and -0.27 plus minus 0.12 counting limits as
zeros. Similar results are also obtained if the data are binned in redshift,
and if survival analysis is used. These slopes are marginally consistent with
no evolution, but are also consistent with the rates predicted by several
models of cosmic chemical evolution. Finally, we outline some future
measurements necessary to improve the statistics of the global
metallicity-redshift relation.