A Band function has become the standard spectral function used to describe
the prompt emission spectra of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs). However, deviations
from this function have previously been observed in GRBs detected by BATSE and
in individual GRBs from the \textit{Fermi} era. We present a systematic and
rigorous search for spectral deviations from a Band function at low energies in
a sample of the first two years of high fluence, long bursts detected by the
\textit{Fermi} Gamma-Ray Burst Monitor (GBM). The sample contains 45 bursts
with a fluence greater than 2$\times10^{-5}$ erg / cm$^{2}$ (10 - 1000 keV). An
extrapolated fit method is used to search for low-energy spectral anomalies,
whereby a Band function is fit above a variable low-energy threshold and then
the best fit function is extrapolated to lower energy data. Deviations are
quantified by examining residuals derived from the extrapolated function and
the data and their significance is determined via comprehensive simulations
which account for the instrument response. This method was employed for both
time-integrated burst spectra and time-resolved bins defined by a signal to
noise ratio of 25 $\sigma$ and 50 $\sigma$. Significant deviations are evident
in 3 bursts (GRB\,081215A, GRB\,090424 and GRB\,090902B) in the time-integrated
sample ($\sim$ 7%) and 5 bursts (GRB\,090323, GRB\,090424, GRB\,090820,
GRB\,090902B and GRB\,090926A) in the time-resolved sample ($\sim$ 11%).} The
advantage of the systematic, blind search analysis is that it can demonstrate
the requirement for an additional spectral component without any prior
knowledge of the nature of that extra component. Deviations are found in a
large fraction of high fluence GRBs; fainter GRBs may not have sufficient
statistics for deviations to be found using this method.