Glasses have a large excess of low-frequency vibrational modes in comparison
with most crystalline solids. We show that such a feature is a necessary
consequence of the weak connectivity of the solid, and that the frequency of
modes in excess is very sensitive to the pressure. We analyze in particular two
systems whose density D(w) of vibrational modes of angular frequency w display
scaling behaviors with the packing fraction: (i) simulations of jammed packings
of particles interacting through finite-range, purely repulsive potentials,
comprised of weakly compressed spheres at zero temperature and (ii) a system
with the same network of contacts, but where the force between any particles in
contact (and therefore the total pressure) is set to zero. We account in the
two cases for the observed a) convergence of D(w) toward a non-zero constant as
w goes to 0, b) appearance of a low-frequency cutoff w*, and c) power-law
increase of w* with compression. Differences between these two systems occur at
lower frequency. The density of states of the modified system displays an
abrupt plateau that appears at w*, below which we expect the system to behave
as a normal, continuous, elastic body. In the unmodified system, the pressure
lowers the frequency of the modes in excess. The requirement of stability
despite the destabilizing effect of pressure yields a lower bound on the number
of extra contact per particle dz: dz > p^(1/2), which generalizes the Maxwell
criterion for rigidity when pressure is present. This scaling behavior is
observed in the simulations. We finally discuss how the cooling procedure can
affect the microscopic structure and the density of normal modes.