In supernova spectroscopy relatively little attention has been given to the
properties of optically thick spectral lines in epochs following the
photosphere's recession. Most treatments and analyses of post-photospheric
optical spectra of supernovae assume that forbidden-line emission comprises
most if not all spectral features. However, evidence exists which suggests that
some spectra exhibit line profiles formed via optically thick
resonance-scattering even months or years after the supernova explosion. To
explore this possibility we present a geometrical approach to supernova
spectrum formation based on the "Elementary Supernova" model, wherein we
investigate the characteristics of resonance-scattering in optically thick
lines while replacing the photosphere with a transparent central core emitting
non-blackbody continuum radiation, akin to the optical continuum provided by
decaying 56Co formed during the explosion. We develop the mathematical
framework necessary for solving the radiative transfer equation under these
conditions, and calculate spectra for both isolated and blended lines. Our
comparisons with analogous results from the Elementary Supernova code SYNOW
reveal several marked differences in line formation. Most notably, resonance
lines in these conditions form P Cygni-like profiles, but the emission peaks
and absorption troughs shift redward and blueward, respectively, from the
line's rest wavelength by a significant amount, despite the spherically
symmetric distribution of the line optical depth in the ejecta. These
properties and others that we find in this work could lead to misidentification
of lines or misattribution of properties of line-forming material at
post-photospheric times in supernova optical spectra.