Natively unfolded proteins lack a well defined three dimensional structure
but have important biological functions, suggesting a re-assignment of the
structure-function paradigm. Many proteins have amino acidic compositions
compatible both with the folded and unfolded status, and belong to a twilight
zone between order and disorder. This makes difficult a dichotomic
classification of protein sequences into folded and natively unfolded ones. In
this methodological paper dichotomic folding indexes are considered:
hydrophobicity-charge, mean packing, mean pairwise energy, Poodle-W and a new
global index, that is called here gVSL2, based on the local disorder predictor
VSL2. The performance of these indexes is evaluated on different datasets.
Poodle-W, gVSL2 and mean pairwise energy have good performance and stability in
all the datasets considered and are combined into a strictly unanimous
combination score SSU, that leaves proteins unclassified when the consensus of
all combined indexes is not reached. The unclassified proteins: i) belong to an
overlap region in the vector space of amino acidic compositions occupied by
both folded and unfolded proteins; ii) are composed by approximately the same
number of order-promoting and disorder-promoting amino acids; iii) have a mean
flexibility intermediate between that of folded and that of unfolded proteins.
These proteins reasonably have physical properties intermediate between those
of folded and those of natively unfolded proteins and their structural
properties and evolutionary history are worth to be investigated.