We present a generalized van der Waals theory for a lyotropic cholesteric
system of chiral spherocylinders based on the classical Onsager theory for hard
anisometric bodies. The rods consist of a hard spherocylindrical backbone
surrounded with a square-well potential to account for attractive (or soft
repulsive) interactions. Long-ranged chiral interactions are described by means
of a simple pseudo-scalar potential which is appropriate for weak chiral forces
of a predominant electrostatic origin. Based on the formalism proposed by
Straley [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 14}, 1835 (1976)] we derive explicit algebraic
expressions for the twist elastic modulus and the cholesteric pitch for rods as
a function of density and temperature. The pitch varies non-monotonically with
density, with a sharp decrease at low packing fractions and a marked increase
at higher packing fractions. A similar trend is found for the temperature
dependence. The unwinding of the helical pitch at high densities (or low
temperatures) originates from a marked increase in the local nematic order and
a steep increase of the twist elastic resistance associated with near-parallel
local rod configurations. This contrasts with the commonly held view that the
increase in pitch with decreasing temperature as often observed in cholesterics
is due to layer formation resulting from pre-smectic fluctuations. The increase
in pitch with increasing temperature is consistent with an entropic unwinding
as the chiral interaction becomes less and less significant than the thermal
energy. The variation of the pitch with density, temperature and contour length
is in qualitative agreement with recent experimental results on colloidal {\em
fd} rods.