A loosely packed bed of sand sits precariously on the fence between
mechanically stable and flowing states. This has especially strong implications
for animals or vehicles needing to navigate sandy environments, which can sink
and become stuck in a "dry quicksand" if their weight exceeds the yield stress
of this fragile matter. While it is known that the contact stresses in these
systems are loaded by gravity, very little is known about the sinking dynamics
of objects into loose granular systems under gravitational accelerations
different from the Earth's (g). A fundamental understanding of how objects sink
in different gravitational environments is not only necessary for successful
planetary navigation and engineering, but it can also improve our understanding
of celestial impact dynamics and crater geomorphology. Here we perform and
explain the first systematic experiments of the sink dynamics of objects into
granular media in different gravitational accelerations. By using an
accelerating experimental apparatus, we explore gravitational conditions
ranging from 0.4g to 1.2g. With the aid of discrete element modeling
simulations, we reproduce these results and extend this range to include
objects as small as asteroids and as large as Jupiter. Surprisingly, we find
that the final sink depth is independent of the gravitational acceleration, an
observation with immediate relevance to the design of future extraterrestrial
structures land-roving spacecraft. Using a phenomenological equation of motion
that includes a gravity-loaded frictional term, we are able to quantitatively
explain the experimental and simulation results.