We derive a microscopic equation of motion for the dynamical orientational
correlators of molecular crystals. Our approach is based upon mode coupling
theory. Compared to liquids we find four main differences: (i) the memory
kernel contains Umklapp processes, (ii) besides the static two-molecule
orientational correlators one also needs the static one-molecule orientational
density as an input, where the latter is nontrivial, (iii) the static
orientational current density correlator does contribute an anisotropic,
inertia-independent part to the memory kernel, (iv) if the molecules are
assumed to be fixed on a rigid lattice, the tensorial orientational correlators
and the memory kernel have vanishing l,l'=0 components. The resulting mode
coupling equations are solved for hard ellipsoids of revolution on a rigid
sc-lattice. Using the static orientational correlators from Percus-Yevick
theory we find an ideal glass transition generated due to precursors of
orientational order which depend on X and p, the aspect ratio and packing
fraction of the ellipsoids. The glass formation of oblate ellipsoids is
enhanced compared to that for prolate ones. For oblate ellipsoids with X <~ 0.7
and prolate ellipsoids with X >~ 4, the critical diagonal nonergodicity
parameters in reciprocal space exhibit more or less sharp maxima at the zone
center with very small values elsewhere, while for prolate ellipsoids with 2 <~
X <~ 2.5 we have maxima at the zone edge. The off-diagonal nonergodicity
parameters are not restricted to positive values and show similar behavior. For
0.7 <~ X <~ 2, no glass transition is found. In the glass phase, the
nonergodicity parameters show a pronounced q-dependence.