We propose to produce neutron-rich nuclei in the range of the astrophysical
r-process around the waiting point N=126 by fissioning a dense
laser-accelerated thorium ion bunch in a thorium target (covered by a CH2
layer), where the light fission fragments of the beam fuse with the light
fission fragments of the target. Via the 'hole-boring' mode of laser Radiation
Pressure Acceleration using a high-intensity, short pulse laser, very
efficiently bunches of 232Th with solid-state density can be generated from a
Th layer, placed beneath a deuterated polyethylene foil, both forming the
production target. Th ions laser-accelerated to about 7 MeV/u will pass through
a thin CH2 layer placed in front of a thicker second Th foil closely behind the
production target and disintegrate into light and heavy fission fragments. In
addition, light ions (d,C) from the CD2 production target will be accelerated
as well to about 7 MeV/u, inducing the fission process of 232Th also in the
second Th layer. The laser-accelerated ion bunches with solid-state density,
which are about 10^14 times more dense than classically accelerated ion
bunches, allow for a high probability that generated fission products can fuse
again. In contrast to classical radioactive beam facilities, where intense but
low-density radioactive beams are merged with stable targets, the novel
fission-fusion process draws on the fusion between neutron-rich, short-lived,
light fission fragments both from beam and target. The high ion beam density
may lead to a strong collective modification of the stopping power in the
target, leading to significant range enhancement. Using a high-intensity laser
as envisaged for the ELI-Nuclear Physics project in Bucharest (ELI-NP),
estimates promise a fusion yield of about 10^3 ions per laser pulse in the mass
range of A=180-190, thus enabling to approach the r-process waiting point at
N=126.