A sample of eight quasars observed at high resolution and signal-to-noise is
used to determine the probability distribution function (PDF), the power
spectrum, and the correlation function of the transmitted flux in the \lya
forest, in three redshift bins centered at z=2.41, 3.00, and 3.89. All the
results are presented in tabular form, with full error covariance matrices to
allow for comparisons with any numerical simulations and with other data sets.
The observations are compared with a numerical simulation of the \lya forest of
a Lambda-CDM model with Omega=0.4, known to agree with other large-scale
structure observational constraints. There is excellent agreement for the PDF,
if the mean transmitted flux is adjusted to match the observations. A small
difference between the observed and predicted PDF is found at high fluxes and
low redshift, which may be due to the uncertain effects of fitting the spectral
continuum. Using the numerical simulation, we show how the flux power spectrum
can be used to recover the initial power spectrum of density fluctuations. From
our sample of eight quasars, we measure the amplitude of the mass power
spectrum to correspond to a linear variance per unit ln(k) of
$\Delta^2_\rho(k)=0.72\pm0.09$ at k=0.04(km/s)^{-1} and z=3, and the slope of
the power spectrum near the same k to be $n_p=-2.55\pm0.10$ (statistical error
bars). The results are statistically consistent with Croft et. al. (1999),
although our value for the rms fluctuation is lower by a factor 0.75. For the
Lambda-CDM model we use, the implied primordial slope is $n=0.93\pm0.10$, and
the normalization is $\sigma_8=0.68+1.16(0.95-n)\pm0.04$.