We explore a novel theoretical model for studying the performance of
distributed storage management systems where the data-centers have limited
capacities (as compared to storage space requested by the users). Prior schemes
such as Balls-into-bins (used for load balancing) neither consider bin
(consumer) capacities (multiple balls into a bin) nor the future performance of
the system after, balls (producer requests) are allocated to bins and restrict
number of balls as a function of the number of bins. Our problem consists of
finding an optimal assignment of the online producer requests to consumers (via
weighted edges) in a complete bipartite graph while ensuring that the total
size of request assigned on a consumer is limited by its capacity. The metric
used to measure the performance in this model is the (minimization of) weighted
sum of the requests assigned on the edges (loads) and their corresponding
weights. We first explore the optimal offline algorithms followed by
competitive analysis of different online techniques. Using oblivious adversary.
LP and Primal-Dual algorithms are used for calculating the optimal offline
solution in O(r*n) time (where r and n are the number of requests and consumers
respectively) while randomized algorithms are used for the online case.
  For the simplified model with equal consumer capacities an average-case
competitive ratio of AVG(d) / MIN(d) (where d is the edge weight / distance) is
achieved using an algorithm that has equal probability for selecting any of the
available edges with a running time of $O(r)$. In the extending the model to
arbitrary consumer capacities we show an average case competitive ratio of
AVG(d*c) / (AVG(c) *MIN(d)).