In this work, we present digital and graphical atlases of spectra of both the
solar disk-center and of the limb near the Solar poles using data taken at the
UTS-IAP & RIAAM (the University of Tabriz Siderostat, telescope and
spectrograph jointly developed with the Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris and
Research Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics of Maragha). High resolution
and high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)CCD-slit spectra of the sun for 2 different
parts of the disk, namely for $\mu$~=~1.0 (solar center) \& for $\mu$~=~ 0.3
solar limb) are provided and discussed. While there are several spectral
atlases of the solar disk-center, this is the first spectral atlas ever
produced for the solar limb at this spectral range. The resolution of the
spectra is about \emph{R}~$\sim$~70 000 ($\Delta\lambda$~$\sim$~0.09 {\AA} with
the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 400$-$600. The full atlas covers the 3980 to
7100 {\AA} spectral regions and contains 44 pages with three partial spectra of
the solar spectrum put on each page to make it compact. The difference spectrum
of the normalized solar disk-center and the solar limb is also included in the
graphic presentation of the atlas to show the difference of line profiles,
including far wings. The identification of the most significant solar lines is
included in the graphic presentation of the atlas. Telluric lines are producing
a definite signature on the difference spectra which is easy to notice. At the
end of this paper we present only two sample pages of the whole atlas while the
graphic presentation of the whole atlas along with its ASCII file can be
accessed via the ftp server of the CDS in Strasbourg via anonymous ftp to
cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr (130.79.128.5) or via this link
\footnote{\url{http://cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/qcat?J/other/ApSS}}.