We use cosmological constraints from current data sets and a figure of merit
(FoM) approach to probe any deviations from general relativity (GR) at
cosmological scales. The FoM approach is used to study the constraining power
of various combinations of data sets on modified gravity (MG) parameters. We
use recently refined HST-COSMOS weak-lensing tomography data, ISW-galaxy cross
correlations from 2MASS and SDSS LRG surveys, matter power spectrum from
SDSS-DR7 (MPK), WMAP7 temperature and polarization spectra, BAO from 2DF and
SDSS-DR7, and Union2 compilation of supernovae, in addition to other bounds
from H_0 measurements and BBN. We use 3 parametrizations of MG parameters that
enter the perturbed field equations. In order to allow for variations with
redshift and scale, the first 2 parametrizations use recently suggested
functional forms while the third is based on binning methods. Using the first
parametrization, we find that CMB + ISW + WL provides the strongest constraints
on MG parameters followed by CMB+WL or CMB+MPK+ISW. Using the second
parametrization or binning methods, CMB+MPK+ISW consistently provides some of
the strongest constraints. This shows that the constraints are parametrization
dependent. We find that adding up current data sets does not improve
consistently uncertainties on MG parameters due to tensions between best-fit MG
parameters preferred by different data sets. Furthermore, some functional forms
imposed by the parametrizations can lead to an exacerbation of these tensions.
Next, unlike some studies that used the CFHTLS lensing data, we do not find any
deviation from GR using the refined HST-COSMOS data, confirming previous claims
in those studies that their result may have been due to some systematic effect.
Finally, we find in all cases that the values corresponding to GR are within
the 95% confidence level contours for all data set combinations. (abridged)