We take advantage of the sensitivity and resolution of Herschel at 100 and
160 micron to directly image the thermal dust emission and investigate the
infrared luminosities, L(IR), and dust obscuration of typical star-forming (L*)
galaxies at high redshift. Our sample consists of 146 UV-selected galaxies with
spectroscopic redshifts 1.5<z<2.6 in the GOODS-North field. Supplemented with
deep Very Large Array (VLA) and Spitzer imaging, we construct median stacks at
the positions of these galaxies at 24, 100, and 160 micron, and 1.4 GHz. The
comparison between these stacked fluxes and a variety of dust templates and
calibrations implies that typical star-forming galaxies with UV luminosities
L(UV)>1e10 Lsun at z~2 are luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs) with a median
L(IR)=(2.2+/-0.3)e11 Lsun. Typical galaxies at 1.5<z<2.6 have a median dust
obscuration L(IR)/L(UV) = 7.1+/-1.1, which corresponds to a dust correction
factor, required to recover the bolometric star formation rate (SFR) from the
unobscured UV SFR, of 5.2+/-0.6. This result is similar to that inferred from
previous investigations of the UV, H-alpha, 24 micron, radio, and X-ray
properties of the same galaxies studied here. Stacking in bins of UV slope
implies that L* galaxies with redder spectral slopes are also dustier, and that
the correlation between UV slope and dustiness is similar to that found for
local starburst galaxies. Hence, the rest-frame 30 and 50 micron fluxes
validate on average the use of the local UV attenuation curve to recover the
dust attenuation of typical star-forming galaxies at high redshift. In the
simplest interpretation, the agreement between the local and high redshift UV
attenuation curves suggests a similarity in the dust production and stellar and
dust geometries of starburst galaxies over the last 10 billion years.