We present precise measurements of the growth rate of cosmic structure for
the redshift range 0.1 < z < 0.9, using redshift-space distortions in the
galaxy power spectrum of the WiggleZ Dark Energy Survey. Our results, which
have a precision of around 10% in four independent redshift bins, are well-fit
by a flat LCDM cosmological model with matter density parameter Omega_m = 0.27.
Our analysis hence indicates that this model provides a self-consistent
description of the growth of cosmic structure through large-scale perturbations
and the homogeneous cosmic expansion mapped by supernovae and baryon acoustic
oscillations. We achieve robust results by systematically comparing our data
with several different models of the quasi-linear growth of structure including
empirical models, fitting formulae calibrated to N-body simulations, and
perturbation theory techniques. We extract the first measurements of the power
spectrum of the velocity divergence field, P_vv(k), as a function of redshift
(under the assumption that P_gv(k) = -sqrt[P_gg(k) P_vv(k)] where g is the
galaxy overdensity field), and demonstrate that the WiggleZ galaxy-mass
cross-correlation is consistent with a deterministic (rather than stochastic)
scale-independent bias model for WiggleZ galaxies for scales k < 0.3 h/Mpc.
Measurements of the cosmic growth rate from the WiggleZ Survey and other
current and future observations offer a powerful test of the physical nature of
dark energy that is complementary to distance-redshift measures such as
supernovae and baryon acoustic oscillations.