The analysis of gamma-ray burst (GRB) spectra with multi-component emission
models has become an important part of the field. In particular,
multi-component analysis where one component is a blackbody representing
emission from a photosphere has enabled both a more detailed understanding of
the energy content of the jet as well as the ability to examine the dynamic
structure of the outflow. While the existence of a blackbody-like component has
been shown to be significant and not a byproduct of background fluctuations, it
is very possible that it can be an artifact of spectral evolution of a single
component that is being poorly resolved in time. Herein, this possibility is
tested by simulating a single component evolving in time and then folding the
spectra through the $Fermi$ detector response to generate time-tagged event
Gamma-ray Burst Monitor (GBM) data. We then fit both the time integrated and
resolved generated spectral data with a multi-component model using standard
tools. It is found that in {\it time-integrated} spectra, a blackbody can be
falsely identified due to the spectral curvature introduced by the spectral
evolution. However, in time-resolved analysis defined by time bins that can
resolve the evolution of the spectra, the significance of the falsely
identified blackbody is very low. Additionally, the evolution of the artificial
blackbody parameters does not match the recurring behavior that has been
identified in the actual observations. These results reinforce the existence of
the blackbody found in {\it time-resolved} analysis of GRBs and stress the
point that caution should be taken when using time-integrated spectral analysis
for identifying physical properties of GRBs.