In addition to the large systematic differences arising from assumptions
about the stellar mass-to-light ratio, the massive end of the stellar mass
function is rather sensitive to how one fits the light profiles of the most
luminous galaxies. We quantify this by comparing the luminosity and stellar
mass functions based on SDSS cmodel magnitudes, and PyMorph single-Sersic and
Sersic-Exponential fits to the surface brightness profiles of galaxies in the
SDSS. The PyMorph fits return more light, so that the predicted masses are
larger than when cmodel magnitudes are used. As a result, the total stellar
mass density at z~0.1 is about 1.2x larger than in our previous analysis of the
SDSS. The differences are most pronounced at the massive end, where the
measured number density of objects having M* > 6 x 10^{11} Msun is ~5x larger.
Alternatively, at number densities of 10^{-6} Mpc^{-3}, the limiting stellar
mass is 2x larger. The differences with respect to fits by other contributors,
typically based on Petrosian-like magnitudes, are even more dramatic, although
some of these differences are due to sky-subtraction problems, and are
sometimes masked by large differences in the assumed $M_*/L$ (even after
scaling to the same IMF). Our results impact studies of the growth and assembly
of stellar mass in galaxies, and of the relation between stellar and halo mass,
so we provide simple analytic fits to these new luminosity and stellar mass
functions and quantify how they depend on morphology, as well as the binned
counts in electronic format.