The Red MSX Source (RMS) survey has identified a large sample of massive
young stellar objects (MYSOs) and ultra compact (UC) HII regions from a sample
of ~2000 MSX and 2MASS colour selected sources. Using a recent catalogue of
molecular clouds derived from the Boston University-Five College Radio
Astronomy Observatory Galactic Ring Survey (GRS), and by applying a Galactic
scaleheight cut off of 120 pc, we solve the distance ambiguity for RMS sources
located within 18\degr < |l| > 54\degr. These two steps yield kinematic
distances to 291 sources out of a possible 326 located within the GRS longitude
range. Combining distances and integrated fluxes derived from spectral energy
distributions, we estimate luminosities to these sources and find that > 90%
are indicative of the presence of a massive star. We find the completeness
limit of our sample is ~10^4 Lsun, which corresponds to a zero age main
sequence (ZAMS) star with a mass of ~12 Msun. Selecting only these sources, we
construct a complete sample of 196 sources. Comparing the properties of the
sample of young massive stars with the general population, we find the
RMS-clouds are generally larger, more massive, and more turbulent. We examine
the distribution of this sub-sample with respect to the location of the spiral
arms and the Galactic bar and find them to be spatially correlated. We identify
three significant peaks in the source surface density at Galactocentric radii
of approximately 4, 6 and 8 kpc, which correspond to the proposed positions of
the Scutum, Sagittarius and Perseus spiral arms, respectively. Fitting a scale
height to the data we obtain an average value of ~29+-0.5 pc, which agrees well
with other reported values in the literature, however, we note a dependence of
the scale height on galactocentric radius with it increases from 30 pc to 45 pc
between 2.5 and 8.5 kpc.