We perform extensive computational studies of two-dimensional static
bidisperse disk packings using two distinct packing-generation protocols. The
first involves thermally quenching equilibrated liquid configurations to zero
temperature over a range of thermal quench rates $r$ and initial packing
fractions followed by compression and decompression in small steps to reach
packing fractions $\phi_J$ at jamming onset. For the second, we seed the system
with initial configurations that promote micro- and macrophase-separated
packings followed by compression and decompression to $\phi_J$. We find that
amorphous, isostatic packings exist over a finite range of packing fractions
from $\phi_{\rm min} \le \phi_J \le \phi_{\rm max}$ in the large-system limit,
with $\phi_{\rm max} \approx 0.853$. In agreement with previous calculations,
we obtain $\phi_{\rm min} \approx 0.84$ for $r > r^*$, where $r^*$ is the rate
above which $\phi_J$ is insensitive to rate. We further compare the structural
and mechanical properties of isostatic versus hyperstatic packings. The
structural characterizations include the contact number, bond orientational
order, and mixing ratios of the large and small particles. We find that the
isostatic packings are positionally and compositionally disordered, whereas
bond-orientational and compositional order increase with contact number for
hyperstatic packings. In addition, we calculate the static shear modulus and
normal mode frequencies of the static packings to understand the extent to
which the mechanical properties of amorphous, isostatic packings are different
from partially ordered packings. We find that the mechanical properties of the
packings change continuously as the contact number increases from isostatic to
hyperstatic.