Particle filters are key algorithms for object tracking under non-linear,
non-Gaussian dynamics. The high computational cost of particle filters,
however, hampers their applicability in cases where the likelihood model is
costly to evaluate, or where large numbers of particles are required to
represent the posterior. We introduce the approximate sequential importance
sampling/resampling (ASIR) algorithm, which aims at reducing the cost of
traditional particle filters by approximating the likelihood with a mixture of
uniform distributions over pre-defined cells or bins. The particles in each bin
are represented by a dummy particle at the center of mass of the original
particle distribution and with a state vector that is the average of the states
of all particles in the same bin. The likelihood is only evaluated for the
dummy particles, and the resulting weight is identically assigned to all
particles in the bin. We derive upper bounds on the approximation error of the
so-obtained piecewise constant function representation, and analyze how bin
size affects tracking accuracy and runtime. Further, we show numerically that
the ASIR approximation error converges to that of sequential importance
sampling/resampling (SIR) as the bin size is decreased. We present a set of
numerical experiments from the field of biological image processing and
tracking that demonstrate ASIR's capabilities. Overall, we consider ASIR a
promising candidate for simple, fast particle filtering in generic
applications.