Metagenomics is an approach for characterizing environmental microbial
communities in situ, it allows their functional and taxonomic characterization
and to recover sequences from uncultured taxa. For communities of up to medium
diversity, e.g. excluding environments such as soil, this is often achieved by
a combination of sequence assembly and binning, where sequences are grouped
into 'bins' representing taxa of the underlying microbial community from which
they originate. Assignment to low-ranking taxonomic bins is an important
challenge for binning methods as is scalability to Gb-sized datasets generated
with deep sequencing techniques. One of the best available methods for the
recovery of species bins from an individual metagenome sample is the
expert-trained PhyloPythiaS package, where a human expert decides on the taxa
to incorporate in a composition-based taxonomic metagenome classifier and
identifies the 'training' sequences using marker genes directly from the
sample. Due to the manual effort involved, this approach does not scale to
multiple metagenome samples and requires substantial expertise, which
researchers who are new to the area may not have. With these challenges in
mind, we have developed PhyloPythiaS+, a successor to our previously described
method PhyloPythia(S). The newly developed + component performs the work
previously done by the human expert. PhyloPythiaS+ also includes a new k-mer
counting algorithm, which accelerated k-mer counting 100-fold and reduced the
overall execution time of the software by a factor of three. Our software
allows to analyze Gb-sized metagenomes with inexpensive hardware, and to
recover species or genera-level bins with low error rates in a fully automated
fashion.