We present Chandra studies of the X-ray binary (XRB) populations in the bulge
and ring regions of the ring galaxy NGC 1291. We detect 169 X-ray point sources
in the galaxy, 75 in the bulge and 71 in the ring, utilizing the four available
Chandra observations totaling an effective exposure of 179 ks. We report
photometric properties of these sources in a point-source catalog. There are
~40% of the bulge sources and ~25% of the ring sources showing >3\sigma
long-term variability in their X-ray count rate. The X-ray colors suggest that
a significant fraction of the bulge (~75%) and ring (~65%) sources are likely
low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs). The spectra of the nuclear source indicate
that it is a low-luminosity AGN with moderate obscuration; spectral variability
is observed between individual observations. We construct 0.3-8.0 keV X-ray
luminosity functions (XLFs) for the bulge and ring XRB populations, taking into
account the detection incompleteness and background AGN contamination. We reach
90% completeness limits of ~1.5\times10^{37} and ~2.2\times10^{37} erg/s for
the bulge and ring populations, respectively. Both XLFs can be fit with a
broken power-law model, and the shapes are consistent with those expected for
populations dominated by LMXBs. We perform detailed population synthesis
modeling of the XRB populations in NGC 1291, which suggests that the observed
combined XLF is dominated by an old LMXB population. We compare the bulge and
ring XRB populations, and argue that the ring XRBs are associated with a
younger stellar population than the bulge sources, based on the relative
overdensity of X-ray sources in the ring, the generally harder X-ray color of
the ring sources, the overabundance of luminous sources in the combined XLF,
and the flatter shape of the ring XLF.