We present the full data set of the VIMOS spectroscopic campaign of the
ESO/GOODS program in the CDFS, which complements the FORS2 ESO/GOODS
spectroscopic campaign. The GOODS/VIMOS spectroscopic campaign is structured in
two separate surveys using two different VIMOS grisms. The VIMOS Low Resolution
Blue (LR-Blue) and Medium Resolution (MR) orange grisms have been used to cover
different redshift ranges. The LR-Blue campaign is aimed at observing galaxies
mainly at 1.8<z<3.5, while the MR campaign mainly aims at galaxies at z<1 and
Lyman Break Galaxies (LBGs) at z>3.5. The full GOODS/VIMOS spectroscopic
campaign consists of 20 VIMOS masks. This release adds 8 new masks to the
previous release (12 masks, Popesso et al. 2009). In total we obtained 5052
spectra, 3634 from the 10 LR-Blue masks and 1418 from the 10 MR masks. A
significant fraction of the extracted spectra comes from serendipitously
observed sources: ~21% in the LR-Blue and ~16% in the MR masks. We obtained
2242 redshifts in the LR-Blue campaign and 976 in the MR campaign for a total
success rate of 62% and 69% respectively, which increases to 66% and 73% if
only primary targets are considered. The typical redshift uncertainty is
estimated to be ~0.0012 (~255 km/s) for the LR-Blue grism and ~0.00040 (~120
km/s) for the MR grism. By complementing our VIMOS spectroscopic catalog with
all existing spectroscopic redshifts publicly available in the CDFS, we
compiled a redshift master catalog with 7332 entries, which we used to
investigate large scale structures out to z~3.7. We produced stacked spectra of
LBGs in a few bins of equivalent width (EW) of the Ly-alpha and found evidence
for a lack of bright LBGs with high EW of the Ly-alpha. Finally, we obtained
new redshifts for 12 X-ray sources of the CDFS and extended-CDFS.