The cognitive interference channel is an interference channel in which one
transmitter is non-causally provided with the message of the other transmitter.
This channel model has been extensively studied in the past years and capacity
results for certain classes of channels have been proved. In this paper we
present new inner and outer bounds for the capacity region of the cognitive
interference channel as well as new capacity results. Previously proposed outer
bounds are expressed in terms of auxiliary random variables for which no
cardinality constraint is known. Consequently it is not possible to evaluate
such outer bounds explicitly for a given channel model. The outer bound we
derive is based on an idea originally devised by Sato for the broadcast channel
and does not contain auxiliary random variables, allowing it to be more easily
evaluated. The inner bound we derive is the largest known to date and is
explicitly shown to include all previously proposed achievable rate regions.
This comparison highlights which features of the transmission scheme - which
includes rate-splitting, superposition coding, a broadcast channel-like binning
scheme, and Gel'fand Pinsker coding - are most effective in approaching
capacity. We next present new capacity results for a class of discrete
memoryless channels that we term the "better cognitive decoding regime" which
includes all previously known regimes in which capacity results have been
derived as special cases. Finally, we determine the capacity region of the
semi-deterministic cognitive interference channel, in which the signal at the
cognitive receiver is a deterministic function of the channel inputs.