[abridged] The 12CO/13CO ratio is often used as a measure of the 12C/13C
ratio in the circumstellar environment, carrying important information about
the stellar nucleosynthesis. External processes can change the 12CO and 13CO
abundances, and spatially resolved studies of the 12CO/13CO ratio are needed to
quantify the effect of these processes on the globally determined values.
Additionally, such studies provide important information on the conditions in
the circumstellar environment. The detached-shell source R Scl, displaying CO
emission from recent mass loss, in a binary-induced spiral structure as well as
in a clumpy shell produced during a thermal pulse, provides a unique laboratory
for studying the differences in CO isotope abundances throughout its recent
evolution. We observed both the 12CO(J=3-2) and the 13CO(J=3-2) line using
ALMA. We find significant variations in the 12CO/13CO intensity ratios and
consequently in the abundance ratios. The average CO isotope abundance ratio is
at least a factor three lower in the shell (~19) than that in the present-day
(<300 years) mass loss (>60). Additionally, variations in the ratio of more
than an order of magnitude are found in the shell itself. We attribute these
variations to the competition between selective dissociation and isotope
fractionation in the shell, of which large parts cannot be warmer than ~35 K.
However, we also find that the 12CO/13CO ratio in the present-day mass loss is
significantly higher than the 12C/13C ratio determined in the stellar
photosphere from molecular tracers (~19). The origin of this discrepancy is
still unclear, but we speculate that it is due to an embedded source of
UV-radiation that is primarily photo-dissociating 13CO. This radiation source
could be the hitherto hidden companion. Alternatively, the UV-radiation could
originate from an active chromosphere of R Scl itself....