The $^{22}$Ne($\alpha$,n)$^{25}$Mg reaction is the dominant neutron source
for the slow neutron capture process ($s$-process) in massive stars and
contributes, together with the $^{13}$C($\alpha$,n)$^{16}$O, to the production
of neutrons for the $s$-process in Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB) stars.
However, the reaction is endothermic and competes directly with the
$^{22}$Ne($\alpha,\gamma)^{26}$Mg radiative capture. The uncertainties for both
reactions are large owing to the uncertainty in the level structure of
$^{26}$Mg near the alpha and neutron separation energies. These uncertainties
are affecting the s-process nucleosynthesis calculations in theoretical stellar
models. Indirect studies in the past have been successful in determining the
energies, $\gamma$-ray and neutron widths of the $^{26}$Mg states in the energy
region of interest. But, the high Coulomb barrier hinders a direct measurement
of the resonance strengths, which are determined by the $\alpha$-widths for
these states. The goal of the present experiments is to identify the critical
resonance states and to precisely measure the $\alpha$-widths by $\alpha$
transfer techniques . Hence, the $\alpha$-inelastic scattering and
$\alpha$-transfer measurements were performed on a solid $^{26}$Mg target and a
$^{22}$Ne gas target, respectively, using the Grand Raiden Spectrometer at
RCNP, Osaka, Japan. Six levels (E$_x$ = 10717 keV , 10822 keV, 10951 keV, 11085
keV, 11167 keV and 11317 keV) have been observed above the $\alpha$-threshold
in the region of interest (10.61 - 11.32 MeV). The rates are dominated in both
reaction channels by the resonance contributions of the states at E$_x$ =
10951, 11167 and 11317 keV. The E$_x$ =11167 keV has the most appreciable
impact on the ($\alpha,\gamma$) rate and therefore plays an important role for
the prediction of the neutron production in s-process environments.