Context. The discovery of about 700 extrasolar planets, so far, has lead to
the first statistics concerning extrasolar planets. The presence of giant
planets seems to depend on stellar metallicity and mass. For example, they are
more frequent around metal-rich stars,with an exponential increase in planet
occurrence rates with metallicity.
  Aims. We analyzed two samples of metal-poor stars (-2.0 \leq [Fe/H] \leq 0.0)
to see if giant planets are indeed rare around these objects. Radial velocity
datasets were obtained with two different spectrographs (HARPS and HIRES).
Detection limits for these data,expressed in minimum planetary mass and period,
are calculated. These produce trustworthy numbers for the planet frequency.
  Methods. A general Lomb Scargle (GLS) periodogram analysis was used together
with a bootstrapping method to produce the detection limits. Planet frequencies
were calculated based on a binomial distribution function within metallicity
bins.
  Results. Almost all hot Jupiters and most giant planets should have been
found in these data. Hot Jupiters around metal-poor stars have a frequency
lower than 1.0% at one sigma. Giant planets with periods up to 1800 days,
however, have a higher frequency of $f_p = 2.63^{+2.5}_{-0.8}%$. Taking into
account the different metallicities of the stars, we show that giant planets
appear to be very frequent $(f_p = 4.48^{+4.04}_{-1.38}%)$ around stars with
[Fe/H] > -0.7, while they are rare around stars with [Fe/H] \leq -0.7 (\leq
2.36% at one sigma).
  Conclusions. Giant planet frequency is indeed a strong function of
metallicity, even in the low-metallicity tail. However, the frequencies are
most likely higher than previously thought.