The freezing transition of hard spheres has been well described by various
versions of density-functional theory (DFT). These theories should possess the
close-packed crystal as a special limit, which represents an extreme testing
ground for the quality of such liquid-state based theories. We therefore study
the predictions of DFT for the structure and thermodynamics of the hard-sphere
crystal in this limit. We examine the Ramakrishnan-Yussouff (RY) approximation
and two variants of the fundamental-measure theory (FMT) developed by Rosenfeld
and coworkers. We allow for general shapes of the density peaks, going beyond
the common Gaussian approximation. In all cases we find that, upon approaching
close packing, the peak width vanishes proportionally to the free distance a
between the particles and the free energy depends logarithmically on a.
However, different peak shapes and next-to-leading contributions to the free
energy result from the different approximate functionals. For the RY theory,
within the Gaussian approximation, we establish that the crystalline solutions
form a closed loop with a stable and an unstable branch both connected to the
close-packing point at a=0, consistent with the absence of a liquid-solid
spinodal. That version of FMT that has previously been applied to freezing,
predicts asymptotically step-like density profiles confined to the cells of
self-consistent cell theory. But a recently suggested improved version which
employs tensor weighted densities yields wider and almost Gaussian peaks which
are shown to be in very good agreement with computer simulations.