We describe a powerful technique to model and interpret the stellar
line-of-sight velocity profiles of galaxies. Following Schwarzschild's modeling
approach, a representative library of orbits is calculated in a given
potential; then the non-negative superposition of these orbits is determined to
fit best a given set of observational constraints. Our implementation
incorporates several new features: (i) we calculate velocity profiles and
represent them by a Gauss-Hermite series. This allows us to constrain the
orbital anisotropy in the fit. (ii) we take into account the error on each
observational constraint to obtain an objective chi2 measure for the
quality-of-fit. Only projected, observable quantities are included in the fit,
and aperture binning and seeing convolution of the data are properly taken into
account. This scheme is valid for any geometry, but here we focus on spherical
geometry and the issue of dark halos around elliptical galaxies. We model
radially extended velocity profiles of the E0 galaxy NGC 2434, and find that
constant M/L models are clearly ruled out, regardless of the orbital
anisotropy. To study how much dark matter is needed, we considered a sequence
of cosmologically motivated `star+halo' potentials, which are specified by the
stellar mass-to-light ratio Gamma and the characteristic halo velocity, V_200
(from Navarro et al. 1996). The star+halo models provide an excellent fit to
the data, with Gamma=3.35+-0.25 (in B-band solar units) and V_200=450+-100km/s.
The best-fitting potential has a circular velocity Vc that is constant (at
~300km/s) to within 10% between 0.2--3 effective radii. In NGC 2434 roughly
half of the mass within an effective radius appears to be dark.