Reminiscent of the parity function in network coding for the butterfly
network, it is shown that forwarding an even/odd indicator bit for a scalar
quantization of a relay observation recovers 1 bit of information at the two
destinations in a noiseless interference channel where interference is treated
as noise. Based on this observation, a coding strategy is proposed to improve
the rate of both users at the same time using a relay node in an interference
channel. In this strategy, the relay observes a linear combination of the two
source signals, and broadcasts a common message to the two destinations over a
shared out-of-band link of rate R0 bits per channel use. The relay message
consists of the bin index of a structured binning scheme obtained from a
2^R0-way partition of the squared lattice in the complex plane. We show that
such scalar quantization-binning relay strategy asymptotically achieves the
cut-set bound in an interference channel with a common out-of-band relay link
of limited rate, improving the sum rate by two bits for every bit relayed,
asymptotically at high signal to noise ratios (SNR) and when interference is
treated as noise. We then use low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes along with
bit-interleaved coded-modulation (BICM) as a practical coding scheme for the
proposed strategy. We consider matched and mismatched scenarios, depending on
whether the input alphabet of the interference signal is known or unknown to
the decoder, respectively. For the matched scenario, we show the proposed
strategy results in significant gains in SNR. For the mismatched scenario, we
show that the proposed strategy results in rate improvements that, without the
relay, cannot be achieved by merely increasing transmit powers. Finally, we use
generalized mutual information analysis to characterize the theoretical
performance of the mismatched scenario and validate our simulation results.