Balanced allocation of online balls-into-bins has long been an active area of
research for efficient load balancing and hashing applications.There exists a
large number of results in this domain for different settings, such as parallel
allocations~\cite{parallel}, multi-dimensional allocations~\cite{multi},
weighted balls~\cite{weight} etc. For sequential multi-choice allocation, where
$m$ balls are thrown into $n$ bins with each ball choosing $d$ (constant) bins
independently uniformly at random, the maximum load of a bin is $O(\log \log n)
+ m/n$ with high probability~\cite{heavily_load}. This offers the current best
known allocation scheme. However, for $d = \Theta(\log n)$, the gap reduces to
$O(1)$~\cite{soda08}.A similar constant gap bound has been established for
parallel allocations with $O(\log ^*n)$ communication rounds~\cite{lenzen}.
  In this paper we propose a novel multi-choice allocation algorithm,
\emph{Improved D-choice with Estimated Average} ($IDEA$) achieving a constant
gap with a high probability for the sequential single-dimensional online
allocation problem with constant $d$. We achieve a maximum load of $\lceil m/n
\rceil$ with high probability for constant $d$ choice scheme with
\emph{expected} constant number of retries or rounds per ball. We also show
that the bound holds even for an arbitrary large number of balls, $m>>n$.
Further, we generalize this result to (i)~the weighted case, where balls have
weights drawn from an arbitrary weight distribution with finite variance,
(ii)~multi-dimensional setting, where balls have $D$ dimensions with $f$
randomly and uniformly chosen filled dimension for $m=n$, and (iii)~the
parallel case, where $n$ balls arrive and are placed parallely in the bins. We
show that the gap in these case is also a constant w.h.p. (independent of $m$)
for constant value of $d$ with expected constant number of retries per ball.