The three-point correlation function (3PCF) provides an important view into
the clustering of galaxies that is not available to its lower order cousin, the
two-point correlation function (2PCF). Higher order statistics, such as the
3PCF, are necessary to probe the non-Gaussian structure and shape information
expected in these distributions. We measure the clustering of spectroscopic
galaxies in the Main Galaxy Sample of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS),
focusing on the shape or configuration dependence of the reduced 3PCF in both
redshift and projected space. This work constitutes the largest number of
galaxies ever used to investigate the reduced 3PCF, using over 220,000 galaxies
in three volume-limited samples. We find significant configuration dependence
of the reduced 3PCF at 3-27 Mpc/h, in agreement with LCDM predictions and in
disagreement with the hierarchical ansatz. Below 6 Mpc/h, the redshift space
reduced 3PCF shows a smaller amplitude and weak configuration dependence in
comparison with projected measurements suggesting that redshift distortions,
and not galaxy bias, can make the reduced 3PCF appear consistent with the
hierarchical ansatz. The reduced 3PCF shows a weaker dependence on luminosity
than the 2PCF, with no significant dependence on scales above 9 Mpc/h. On
scales less than 9 Mpc/h, the reduced 3PCF appears more affected by galaxy
color than luminosty. We demonstrate the extreme sensitivity of the 3PCF to
systematic effects such as sky completeness and binning scheme, along with the
difficulty of resolving the errors. Some comparable analyses make assumptions
that do not consistently account for these effects.