We present the analysis of four candidate short duration binary microlensing
events from the 2006-2007 MOA Project short event analysis. These events were
discovered as a byproduct of an analysis designed to find short timescale
single lens events that may be due to free-floating planets. Three of these
events are determined to be microlensing events, while the fourth is most
likely caused by stellar variability. For each of the three microlensing
events, the signal is almost entirely due to a brief caustic feature with
little or no lensing attributable mainly to the lens primary. One of these
events, MOA-bin-1, is due to a planet, and it is the first example of a
planetary event in which stellar host is only detected through binary
microlensing effects. The mass ratio and separation are q = 4.9 +- 1.4 x
10^{-3} and s = 2.10 +- 0.05, respectively. A Bayesian analysis based on a
standard Galactic model indicates that the planet, MOA-bin-1Lb, has a mass of
m_p = 3.7 +- 2.1 M_{Jup}, and orbits a star of M_* = 0.75{+0.33 -0.41} M_solar
at a semi-major axis of a = 8.3 {+4.5 -2.7} AU. This is one of the most massive
and widest separation planets found by microlensing. The scarcity of such wide
separation planets also has implications for interpretation of the isolated
planetary mass objects found by this analysis. If we assume that we have been
able to detect wide separation planets with a efficiency at least as high as
that for isolated planets, then we can set limits on the distribution on
planets in wide orbits. In particular, if the entire isolated planet sample
found by Sumi et al. (2011) consists of planets bound in wide orbits around
stars, we find that it is likely that the median orbital semi-major axis is >
30 AU.