This paper studies a Gaussian Z-interference channel with a rate-limited
digital relay link from one receiver to another. Achievable rate regions are
derived based on a combination of Han-Kobayashi common-private information
splitting technique and several different relay strategies including
compress-and-forward and a partial decode-and-forward strategy, in which the
interference is partially decoded then binned and forwarded through the digital
link for subtraction at the other end. For the Gaussian Z-interference channel
with a digital link from the interference-free receiver to the interfered
receiver, the capacity region is established in the strong interference regime;
an achievable rate region is established in the weak interference regime. In
the weak interference regime, the partial decode-and-forward strategy is shown
to be asymptotically sum-capacity achieving in the high signal-to-noise ratio
and high interference-to-noise ratio limit. In this case, each relay bit
asymptotically improves the sum capacity by one bit. For the Gaussian
Z-interference channel with a digital link from the interfered receiver to the
interference-free receiver, the capacity region is established in the strong
interference regime; achievable rate regions are established in the moderately
strong and weak interference regimes. In addition, the asymptotically sum
capacity is established in the limit of large relay link rate. In this case,
the sum capacity improvement due to the digital link is bounded by half a bit
when the interference link is weaker than certain threshold, but the sum
capacity improvement becomes unbounded as the interference link becomes
stronger.