I review the early development of Aperture Arrays and their role in radio
astronomy. The demise of this technology at the end of the 1960's, and the
reasons for the rise of parabolic dishes is also considered. The parallels with
the Antikythera mechanism (see these proceedings) as a lost technology are
briefly presented. Aperture Arrays re-entered the world of radio astronomy as
the idea to build a huge radio telescope with a collecting area of one square
kilometre (the Square Kilometre Array, SKA) arose. Huge ICT technology advances
had transformed Aperture Arrays in terms of their capability, flexibility and
reliability. In the mid-1990s, ASTRON started to develop and experiment with
the first high frequency aperture array tiles for radio astronomy - AAD, OSMA,
THEA & EMBRACE. In the slipstream of these efforts, Phased Array Feeds (PAFs)
for radio astronomy were invented and LOFAR itself emerged as a next generation
telescope and a major pathfinder for the SKA. Meanwhile, the same advantages
that aperture arrays offered to radio astronomy had already made dishes
obsolete in many different civilian and military applications. The first
commissioning results from LOFAR and other Aperture Arrays (MWA, LWA and PAPER)
currently demonstrate that this kind of technology can transform radio
astronomy over 2 decades of the radio spectrum, and at frequencies up to at
least 1.5 GHz. This "reinvention of radio astronomy" has important implications
for the design and form of the full SKA. Building a SKA that is simply the "VLA
on steroids" is simply not good enough. Like the Antikythera mechanism itself,
we must amaze future generations of astronomers - they and the current
generation deserve nothing less.