Using fiducial markers on patient's body surface to predict the tumor
location is a widely used approach in lung cancer radiotherapy. The purpose of
this work is to propose an algorithm that automatically identifies a sparse set
of locations on the patient's surface with the optimal prediction power for the
tumor motion. The sparse selection of markers on the external surface and the
assumed linear relationship between the marker motion and the internal tumor
motion are represented by a prediction matrix. Such a matrix is determined by
solving an optimization problem, where the objective function contains a
sparsity term that penalizes the number of markers chosen on the patient's
surface. The performance of our algorithm has been tested on realistic clinical
data of four lung cancer patients. Thoracic 4DCT scans with 10 phases are used
for the study. On a reference phase, a grid of points are casted on the
patient's surface (except for patient's back) and propagated to other phases
via deformable image registration of the corresponding CT images. Tumor
locations at each phase are also manually delineated. We use 9 out of 10 phases
of the 4DCT images to identify a small group of surface markers that are most
correlated with the motion of the tumor, and find the prediction matrix at the
same time. The 10th phase is then used to test the accuracy of the prediction.
It is found that on average 6 to 7 surface markers are necessary to predict
tumor locations with a 3D error of about 1mm. In addition, the selected marker
locations lie closely in those areas where surface point motion has a high
correlation with the tumor motion. Our method can automatically select sparse
locations on patient's external surface and estimate a correlation matrix based
on 4DCT, so that the selected surface locations can be used to place fiducial
markers to optimally predict internal tumor motions.