AIMS: In their 1st extension to the Milky Way Star Clusters (MWSC) survey,
Schmeja et al. applied photometric filters to the 2MASS to find new cluster
candidates that were subsequently confirmed or rejected by the MWSC pipeline.
To further extend the MWSC census, we aimed at discovering new clusters by
conducting an almost global search in proper motion catalogues as a starting
point. METHODS: We first selected high-quality samples from the PPMXL and UCAC4
for comparison and verification of the proper motions. For 441 circular proper
motion bins (radius 15 mas/yr) within $\pm$50 mas/yr, the sky outside a thin
Galactic plane zone ($|b|$$<$5$^{\circ}$) was binned in small areas ('sky
pixels') of 0.25$\times$0.25 deg$^2$. Sky pixels with enhanced numbers of stars
with a certain common proper motion in both catalogues were considered as
cluster candidates. After visual inspection of the sky images, we built an
automated procedure that combined these representations of the sky for
neighbouring proper motion subsamples after a background correction. RESULTS:
About half of our 692 candidates overlapped with known clusters (46 globular
and 68 open clusters in the Galaxy, about 150 known clusters of galaxies) or
the Magellanic Clouds. About 10% of our candidates turned out to be 63 new open
clusters confirmed by the MWSC pipeline. They occupy predominantly the two
inner Galactic quadrants and have apparent sizes and numbers of high-probable
members slightly larger than those of the typically small MWSC clusters,
whereas their other parameters (ages, distances, tidal radii) fall in the
typical ranges. As our search aimed at finding compact clusters, we did not
find new very nearby (extended) clusters. (abridged)