Type I collagen fibrils have circular cross sections with radii mostly
distributed in between 50 and 100 nm and are characterized by an axial banding
pattern with a period of 67 nm. The constituent long molecules of those
fibrils, the so-called triple helices, are densely packed but their nature is
such that their assembly must conciliate two conflicting requirements : a
double-twist around the axis of the fibril induced by their chirality and a
periodic layered organization, corresponding to the axial banding, built by
specific lateral interactions. We examine here how such a conflict could
contribute to the control of the radius of a fibril. We develop our analysis
with the help of two geometrical archetypes : the Hopf fibration and the
algorithm of phyllotaxis. The first one provides an ideal template for a
twisted bundle of fibres and the second ensures the best homogeneity and local
isotropy possible for a twisted dense packing with circular symmetry. This
approach shows that, as the radius of a fibril with constant double-twist
increases, the periodic layered organization can not be preserved without
moving from planar to helicoidal configurations. Such changes of configurations
are indeed made possible by the edge dislocations naturally present in the
phyllotactic pattern where their distribution is such that the lateral growth
of a fibril should stay limited in the observed range. Because of our limited
knowledge about the elastic constants involved, this purely geometrical
development stays at a quite conjectural level.