We explore the detectability of the neutrino flux from the entire Galactic
Plane or from a part of it with IceCube. We calculate the normalization and the
spectral index of the neutrino power law spectrum from different regions of the
Galactic plane, based on the observed spectral characteristics of the pion
decay gamma-ray diffuse emission observed by the Fermi/LAT telescope in the
energy band above 100 GeV. We compare the neutrino flux calculated in this way
with the sensitivity of IceCube for the detection of extended sources. Assuming
a binned extended source analysis method, we find that the only possible
evidence for neutrino emission for sources located in the Northern hemisphere
is from the Cygnus region after 20 years of exposure. For other parts of the
Galactic Plane even a 20 years exposure with IceCube is not sufficient for the
detection. Taking into account marginal significance of the detectable source
in the Cygnus region, we find a precise position and size of the source region
which optimizes the signal-to-noise ratio for neutrinos. We also calculate the
low-energy threshold above which the neutrino signal could be detected with the
highest signal-to-noise ratio. This calculation of precise source position,
size and energy range, based on the gamma-ray data, could be used to remove the
'trial factor' in the analysis of the real neutrino data of IceCube. We notice
that the diffuse neutrino emission from the inner Galactic Plane in the
Southern Hemisphere is much brighter. A neutrino detector with characteristics
equivalent to IceCube, but placed at the Northern Hemisphere (such as KM3NeT),
would detect several isolated neutrino sources in the Galactic Plane within
just 5 years exposure at 5{\sigma} level. These isolated sources of ~TeV
neutrinos would unambiguously localize sources of cosmic rays which operated
over the last 10 thousand years in the Galaxy.[abridged]