We apply a simple dynamical density functional theory, the phase-field
crystal (PFC) model of overdamped conservative dynamics, to address
polymorphism, crystal nucleation, and crystal growth in the
diffusion-controlled limit. We refine the phase diagram for 3d, and determine
the line free energy in 2d, the height of the nucleation barrier in 2d and 3d
for homogeneous and heterogeneous nucleation by solving the respective
Euler-Lagrange (EL) equations. We demonstrate that in the PFC model, the
body-centered cubic (bcc), the face-centered cubic (fcc), and the hexagonal
close packed structures (hcp) compete, while the simple cubic structure is
unstable, and that phase preference can be tuned by changing the model
parameters: close to the critical point the bcc structure is stable, while far
from the critical point the fcc prevails, with an hcp stability domain in
between. We note that with increasing distance from the critical point the
equilibrium shapes vary from sphere to the specific faceted shapes:
rhombic-dodecahedron (bcc), truncated-octahedron (fcc), and hexagonal prism
(hcp). Solving the equation of motion of the PFC model supplied with conserved
noise, solidification starts with the nucleation of an amorphous precursor
phase, into which the stable crystalline phase nucleates. The growth rate is
found to be time dependent and anisotropic, which anisotropy depends on the
driving force. We show that due to the diffusion-controlled growth mechanism,
which is especially relevant for crystal aggrega-tion in colloidal systems,
dendritic growth structures evolve in large-scale isothermal single-component
PFC simula-tions. Finally, we present results for eutectic solidification in a
binary PFC model.