Noisy network coding is recently proposed for the general multi-source
network by Lim, Kim, El Gamal and Chung. This scheme builds on compress-forward
(CF) relaying but involves three new ideas, namely no Wyner-Ziv binning,
relaxed simultaneous decoding and message repetition. In this paper, using the
two-way relay channel as the underlining example, we analyze the impact of each
of these ideas on the achievable rate region of relay networks. First, CF
without binning but with joint decoding of both the message and compression
index can achieve a larger rate region than the original CF scheme for
multi-destination relay networks. With binning and successive decoding, the
compression rate at each relay is constrained by the weakest link from the
relay to a destination; but without binning, this constraint is relaxed.
Second, simultaneous decoding of all messages over all blocks without uniquely
decoding the compression indices can remove the constraints on compression rate
completely, but is still subject to the message block boundary effect. Third,
message repetition is necessary to overcome this boundary effect and achieve
the noisy network coding region for multi-source networks. The rate region is
enlarged with increasing repetition times. We also apply CF without binning
specifically to the one-way and two-way relay channels and analyze the rate
regions in detail. For the one-way relay channel, it achieves the same rate as
the original CF and noisy network coding but has only 1 block decoding delay.
For the two-way relay channel, we derive the explicit channel conditions in the
Gaussian and fading cases for CF without binning to achieve the same rate
region or sum rate as noisy network coding. These analyses may be appealing to
practical implementation because of the shorter encoding and decoding delay in
CF without binning.