Cellulose is one of the most versatile substances in the world. Its immense
variety of applications was in recent years complemented by interesting
nanotechnological applications. The fabrication of complex cellulose-based
materials asks for thorough understanding of the surface structure and its
interactions with adsorbates. In this study we investigate several surface
model systems of nanotechnological interest, which are obtained by
reorganization of the cellulose-vacuum or cellulose-water interfaces of slabs
of crystalline cellulose. To do this, we constructed supercells from
crystallographic data, and then optimized the interface structures. From the
bulk and surface systems we calculated structural properties such as unit cell
parameters, dihedral conformation distributions, density profiles and hydrogen
bonding. The results suggest that no overall geometrical restructuring occurs
at the interface. However, the hydrogen bond network is strongly reconstructed,
as is inferred from the dihedral conformations and hydrogen bond occurrences,
although only within the first few layers. This holds for low index close
packed structures as well as for high index loosely packed surfaces. Replacing
the vacuum by ambient pressure water molecules we find less rearrangements of
the cellulose surface, because the water allows formation of hydrogen bonds
similar to those in the bulk phase. The water near the cellulose surface shows,
however, strong structural changes. We observe reduced mobility of the water
molecules, which corresponds to a cooling of water by about 30 degrees, in a
slab that is about 10 \AA\ thick. Although structuring and adsorption is
observed on all surfaces, no actual penetration of water into the cellulose
structure could be observed. This suggests that pure water is not sufficient to
produce cellulose swelling at mesoscopic timescales.