We implement the effective field theory (EFT) approach to dark energy and
modified gravity in the public Einstein-Boltzmann solver CAMB. The resulting
code, which we dub EFTCAMB, is a powerful and versatile tool that can be used
for several objectives. It can be employed to evolve the full dynamics of
linear scalar perturbations in any given single field dark energy or modified
gravity model, once the latter is mapped into the EFT formalism. It offers a
numerical implementation of EFT as a model-independent framework to test
gravity on cosmological scales. EFTCAMB has a built-in check for the
fulfillment of general stability conditions such as the absence of ghost and
superluminal propagation of perturbations. It handles phantom-divide crossing
models and does not contain any quasi-static approximation, but rather evolves
the full dynamics of perturbations on linear scales. As we will show, the
latter is an important feature in view of the accuracy and scale range of
upcoming surveys. We show the reliability and applicability of our code by
evolving the dynamics of linear perturbations and extracting predictions for
power spectra in several models. In particular we perform a thorough analysis
of f(R) theories, comparing our outputs with those of an existing code for LCDM
backgrounds, and finding an agreement that can reach 0.1% for models with a
Compton wavelength consistent with current cosmological data. We then showcase
the flexibility of our code studying two different scenarios. First we produce
new results for designer f(R) models with a time-varying dark energy equation
of state. Second, we extract predictions for linear observables in some
parametrized EFT models with a phantom-divide crossing equation of state for
dark energy.