Jamming is a geometric phase transition occurring in dense particle systems
in the absence of temperature. We use computer simulations to analyse the
effect of thermal fluctuations on several signatures of the transition. We show
that scaling laws for bulk and shear moduli only become relevant when thermal
fluctuations are extremely small, and propose their relative ratio as a
quantitative signature of jamming criticality. Despite the nonequilibrium
nature of the transition, we find that thermally induced fluctuations and
mechanical responses obey equilibrium fluctuation-dissipation relations near
jamming, provided the appropriate fluctuating component of the particle
displacements is analysed. This shows that mechanical moduli can be directly
measured from particle positions in mechanically unperturbed packings, and
suggests that the definition of a "nonequilibrium index" is unnecessary for
amorphous materials. We find that fluctuations of particle displacements are
spatially correlated, and define a transverse and a longitudinal correlation
lengthscales which both diverge as the jamming transition is approached. We
analyse the frozen component of density fluctuations and find that it displays
signatures of nearly-hyperuniform behaviour at large lengthscales. This
demonstrates that hyperuniformity in jammed packings is unrelated to a
vanishing compressibility and explains why it appears remarkably robust against
temperature and density variations. Differently from jamming criticality,
obstacles preventing the observation of hyperuniformity in colloidal systems do
not originate from thermal fluctuations.