The Sloan Digital Sky Survey has confirmed the existence of populations of
broad absorption line (BAL) quasars with various unusual properties. We present
and discuss twenty-three such objects and consider the implications of their
wide range of properties for models of BAL outflows and quasars in general. We
have discovered one BAL quasar with a record number of absorption lines. Two
other similarly complex objects with many narrow troughs show broad MgII
absorption extending longward of their systemic host galaxy redshifts. This can
be explained as absorption of an extended continuum source by the
rotation-dominated base of a disk wind. Five other objects have absorption
which removes an unprecedented ~90% of all flux shortward of MgII. The
absorption in one of them has varied across the ultraviolet with an amplitude
and rate of change as great as ever seen. This same object may also show broad
H-beta absorption. Numerous reddened BAL quasars have been found, including at
least one reddened mini-BAL quasar with very strong FeII emission. The five
reddest objects have continuum reddenings of E(B-V)~0.5, and in two of them we
find strong evidence that the reddening curve is even steeper than that of the
SMC. We have found at least one object with absorption from FeIII but not FeII.
This may be due to a high column density of moderately high-ionization gas, but
the FeIII level populations must also be affected by some sort of resonance.
Finally, we have found two luminous, probably reddened high-redshift objects
which may be BAL quasars whose troughs partially cover different regions of the
continuum source as a function of velocity.