We have simulated the interferometric observation of the Cosmic Microwave
Background (CMB) temperature and polarization fluctuations. We have constructed
data pipelines from the time-ordered raw visibility samples to the CMB power
spectra which utilize the methods of data compression, maximum likelihood
analysis, and optimal subspace filtering. They are customized for three
observational strategies, such as the single pointing, the mosaicking, and the
drift-scanning. For each strategy, derived are the optimal strategy parameters
that yield band power estimates with minimum uncertainty. The results are
general and can be applied to any close-packed array on a single platform such
as the CBI and the forthcoming AMiBA experiments. We have also studied the
effect of rotation of the array platform on the band power correlation by
simulating the CBI single pointing observation. It is found that the band power
anti-correlations can be reduced by rotating the platform and thus densely
sampling the visibility plane. This enables us to increase the resolution of
the power spectrum in the l-space down to the limit of the sampling theorem
(Delta l = 226 = pi / theta), which is narrower by a factor of about sqrt{2}
than the resolution limit (Delta l = 300) used in the recent CBI single
pointing observation. The validity of this idea is demonstrated for a
two-element interferometer that samples visibilities uniformly in the
uv-annulus. From the fact that the visibilities are the Fourier modes of the
CMB field convolved with the beam, a fast unbiased estimator (FUE) of the CMB
power spectra is developed and tested. It is shown that the FUE gives results
very close to those from the quadratic estimator method without requiring large
computer resources even though uncertainties in the results increase.