In this article, we review some of our approaches to granular dynamics, now
well known to consist of both fast and slow relaxational processes. In the
first case, grains typically compete with each other, while in the second, they
cooperate. A typical result of {\it cooperation} is the formation of stable
bridges, signatures of spatiotemporal inhomogeneities; we review their
geometrical characteristics and compare theoretical results with those of
independent simulations. {\it Cooperative} excitations due to local density
fluctuations are also responsible for relaxation at the angle of repose; the
{\it competition} between these fluctuations and external driving forces, can,
on the other hand, result in a (rare) collapse of the sandpile to the
horizontal. Both these features are present in a theory reviewed here. An arena
where the effects of cooperation versus competition are felt most keenly is
granular compaction; we review here a random graph model, where three-spin
interactions are used to model compaction under tapping. The compaction curve
shows distinct regions where 'fast' and 'slow' dynamics apply, separated by
what we have called the {\it single-particle relaxation threshold}. In the
final section of this paper, we explore the effect of shape -- jagged vs.
regular -- on the compaction of packings near their jamming limit. One of our
major results is an entropic landscape that, while microscopically rough,
manifests {\it Edwards' flatness} at a macroscopic level. Another major result
is that of surface intermittency under low-intensity shaking.