The kinetic Sunyaev Zel'dovich effect (kSZ) effect is a potentially powerful
probe to the missing baryons. However, the kSZ signal is overwhelmed by various
contaminations and the cosmological application is hampered by loss of redshift
information due to the projection effect. We propose a kSZ tomography method to
alleviate these problems, with the aid of galaxy spectroscopic redshift
surveys. We propose to estimate the large scale peculiar velocity through the
3D galaxy distribution, weigh it by the 3D galaxy density and adopt the product
projected along the line of sight with a proper weighting as an estimator of
the true kSZ temperature fluctuation $\Theta$. We thus propose to measure the
kSZ signal through the $\Hat{\Theta}$-$\Theta$ cross correlation. This approach
has a number of advantages (see details in the abstract of the paper). We test
the proposed kSZ tomography against non-adiabatic and adiabatic hydrodynamical
simulations. We confirm that $\hat{\Theta}$ is indeed tightly correlated with
$\Theta$ at $k\la 1h/$Mpc, although nonlinearities in the density and velocity
fields and nonlinear redshift distortion do weaken the tightness of the
$\hat{\Theta}$-$\Theta$ correlation. We further quantify the reconstruction
noise in $\Hat{\Theta}$ from galaxy distribution shot noise. Based on these
results, we quantify the applicability of the proposed kSZ tomography for
future surveys. We find that, in combination with the BigBOSS-N spectroscopic
redshift survey, the PLANCK CMB experiment will be able to detect the kSZ with
an overall significance of $\sim 50\sigma$ and further measure its redshift
distribution at many redshift bins over $0<z<2$.