In the free energy of hydration of a solute, the chemical contribution is
given by the free energy required to expel water molecules from the
coordination sphere and the packing contribution is given by the free energy
required to create the solute-free coordination sphere (the observation volume)
in bulk water. With the SPC/E water model as a reference, we examine the
chemical and packing contributions in the free energy of water simulated using
different electron density functionals. The density is fixed at a value
corresponding to that for SPC/E water at a pressure of 1 bar. The chemical
contribution shows that water simulated at 300 K with BLYP is somewhat more
tightly bound than water simulated at 300 K with the revPBE functional or at
350 K with the BLYP and BLYP-D functionals. The packing contribution for
various radii of the observation volume is studied. In the size range where the
distribution of water molecules in the observation volume is expected to be
Gaussian, the packing contribution is expected to scale with the volume of the
observation sphere. Water simulated at 300 K with the revPBE and at 350 K with
BLYP-D or BLYP conforms to this expectation, but the results suggest an earlier
onset of system size effects in the BLYP 350 K and revPBE 300 K systems than
that observed for either BLYP-D 350 K or SPC/E. The implication of this
observation for constant pressure simulations is indicated. For water simulated
at 300 K with BLYP, in the size range where Gaussian distribution of occupation
is expected, we instead find non-Gaussian behavior, and the packing
contribution scales with surface area of the observation volume, suggesting the
presence of heterogeneities in the system.