Coupling losses were studied in composite tapes containing superconducting
material in the form of two separate stacks of densely packed filaments
embedded in a metallic matrix of Ag or Ag alloy. This kind of sample geometry
is quite favorable for studying the coupling currents and in particular the
role of superconducting bridges between filaments. By using a.c. susceptibility
technique, the electromagnetic losses as function of a.c. magnetic field
amplitude and frequency were measured at the temperature T = 77 K for two tapes
with different matrix composition. The length of samples was varied by
subsequent cutting in order to investigate its influence on the dynamics of
magnetic flux penetration. The geometrical factor $\chi_0$ which takes into
account the demagnetizing effects was established from a.c. susceptibility data
at low amplitudes. Losses vs frequency dependencies have been found to agree
nicely with the theoretical model developed for round multifilamentary wires.
Applying this model, the effective resistivity of the matrix was determined for
each tape, by using only measured quantities. For the tape with pure silver
matrix its value was found to be larger than what predicted by the theory for
given metal resistivity and filamentary architecture. On the contrary, in the
sample with a Ag/Mg alloy matrix, an effective resistivity much lower than
expected was determined. We explain these discrepancies by taking into account
the properties of the electrical contact of the interface between the
superconducting filaments and the normal matrix. In the case of soft matrix of
pure Ag, this is of poor quality, while the properties of alloy matrix seem to
provoke an extensive creation of intergrowths which can be actually observed in
this kind of samples.