Neutrino mass hierarchy can be measured in atmospheric neutrino experiments
through the observation of earth matter effects. Magnetized iron calorimeters
have been shown to be good in this regard due to their charge identification
capabilities. The charged current interaction of $\nu_\mu$ in this detector,
produces a muon track and a hadron shower. The direction of the muon track can
be measured very accurately. We show the improvement expected in the reach of
this class of experiments to the neutrino mass hierarchy, as we improve the
muon energy resolution and the muon reconstruction efficiency. We next propose
to include the hadron events in the analysis, by tagging them with the zenith
angle of the corresponding muon and binning the hadron data first in energy and
then in zenith angle. To the best of our knowledge this way of performing the
analysis of the atmospheric neutrino data has not be considered before. We show
that the hadron events increase the mass hierarchy sensitivity of the
experiment. Finally, we show the expected mass hierarchy sensitivity in terms
of the reconstructed neutrino energy and zenith angle. We show how the detector
resolutions spoil the earth matter effects in the neutrino channel and argue
why the sensitivity obtained from the neutrino analysis cannot be significantly
better than that obtained from the analysis using muon data alone. As a result,
the best mass hierarchy sensitivity is obtained when we add the contribution of
the muon and the hadron data. For $\sin^22\theta_{13}=0.1$,
$\sin^2\theta_{23}=0.5$, a muon energy resolution of 2\%, reconstruction
efficiency of 80\% and exposure of $50\times 10$ kton-year, we could get up to
$4.5\sigma$ signal for the mass hierarchy from combining the muon and hadron
data.