We analyze the time reversal of a multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO)
system in a space-frequency-selective multi-path fading channel described by
the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation with a random potential in the
strong-fluctuation regime. We prove that in a broadband limit the conditions
for stable super-resolution are the {\em packing} condition that the spacing
among the $N$ transmitters and $M$ receivers be more than the coherence length
$\ell_c$ and the consecutive symbols in the data-streams are separated by more
than the inverse of the bandwidth $B^{-1}$ and the {\em multiplexing} condition
that the number of the degrees of freedom per unit time at the transmitters
($\sim NB$) be much larger than the number of the degrees of freedom ($\sim
MC$) per unit time in the ensemble of intended messages. Here $C$ is the number
of symbols per unit time in the data-streams intended for each receiver. When
the two conditions are met, all receivers receive simultaneously streams of
statistically stable, sharply focused signals intended for them, free of fading
and interference. This indicates the rough multiplexing gain of $NB$ in channel
capacity, with the maximal gain per unit {\em angular} cross section given by
$BL^d \ell_c^{-d}$ where $L$ is the distance from the transmitters to the
receivers. We show that under the ideal packing condition time reversal can
result in a high signal-to-interference ratio and low probability of intercept,
and hence is an effective means for achieving the information capacity of
multi-path channels in the presence of multiple users (receivers).