For a distinguished water molecule, the solute water, we assess the
contribution of each coordination state to its excess chemical potential, using
a molecular aufbau approach. In this approach, we define a coordination sphere,
the inner-shell, and separate the excess chemical potential into packing,
outer-shell, and local chemical contributions; the coordination state is
defined by the number of solvent water molecules within the coordination
sphere. The packing term accounts for the free energy of creating a solute-free
coordination sphere in the liquid. The outer-shell term accounts for the
interaction of the solute with the fluid outside the coordination sphere and it
is accurately described by a Gaussian model of hydration for coordination radii
greater than the minimum of the oxygen-oxygen pair correlation function.
Consistent with the conventional radial cut-off used for defining
hydrogen-bonds in liquid water, theory helps identify a chemically meaningful
coordination radius. The local chemical contribution is recast as a sum over
coordination states. The n-th term in this sum is given by the probability of
observing n water molecules inside the coordination sphere in the absence of
the solute water times a factor accounting for the interaction of the solute
with the inner-shell solvent water molecules. Using this molecular aufbau
expansion, we monitor the change in the chemical contribution due to the
incremental increase in n. We find that though four water molecules are needed
to fully account for the chemical term, the first added water accounts for
nearly half the chemical term. Our results emphasize the need to acknowledge
the intrinsic occupancy of a solute-free coordination sphere together with
solute-solvent interactions in rationalizing the tetrahedral coordination of
the solute water.