This dissertation presents a method for simulation of motion of the pebbles
in a PBR. A new mechanical motion simulator, PEBBLES, efficiently simulates the
key elements of motion of the pebbles in a PBR. This model simulates
gravitational force and contact forces including kinetic and true static
friction. It's used for a variety of tasks including simulation of the effect
of earthquakes on a PBR, calculation of packing fractions, Dancoff factors,
pebble wear and the pebble force on the walls. The simulator includes a new
differential static friction model for the varied geometries of PBRs. A new
static friction benchmark was devised via analytically solving the mechanics
equations to determine the minimum pebble-to-pebble friction and
pebble-to-surface friction for a five pebble pyramid. This pyramid check as
well as a comparison to the Janssen formula was used to test the new static
friction equations.
  Because larger pebble bed simulations involve hundreds of thousands of
pebbles and long periods of time, PEBBLES runs on shared memory architectures
and distributed memory architectures. For the shared memory architecture, the
code uses a new O(n) lock-less parallel collision detection algorithm to
determine which pebbles are likely to be in contact.
  The PEBBLES code provides new capabilities for understanding and optimizing
PBRs. The PEBBLES code has provided the pebble motion data required to
calculate the motion of pebbles during a simulated earthquake. The PEBBLES code
provides the ability to determine the contact forces and the lengths of motion
in contact. This information combined with the proper wear coefficients can be
used to determine the dust production from mechanical wear. These new
capabilities enhance the understanding of PBRs, and the capabilities of the
code will allow future improvements in understanding.