In this work, we report new quasars discovered in the vicinity fields of the
Andromeda (M31) and Triangulum (M33) galaxies with the LAMOST (Large Sky Area
Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopic Telescope, also named Guoshoujing Telescope)
during the 2013 observational season, the second year of Regular Survey. In
total, 1330 new quasars are discovered in an area of $\sim$133 deg$^2$ around
M31 and M33. With $i$ magnitudes ranging from 14.79 to 20.0, redshifts from
0.08 to 4.85, the 1330 new quasars represent a significant increase of the
number of identified quasars in the vicinity fields of M31 and M33. Up to the
moment, there are in total 1870 quasars discovered by LAMOST in this area (see
also Huo et al. 2010, 2013). The much enlarged sample of known quasars in this
area can potentially be utilized to construct a precise astrometric reference
frame for the measurement of the minute proper motions of M31, M33 and the
associated substructures, vital for the understanding of the formation and
evolution of M31, M33 and the Local Group of galaxies.Meanwhile, amongst the
sample, there are in total 45, 98 and 225 quasars with $i$ magnitudes brighter
than 17.0, 17.5 and 18.0 respectively. In the aforementioned brightness bins,
15, 35 and 84 quasars are reported here for the first time, 6, 21 and 81 are
reported in Huo et al. (2010, 2013), while 0, 1 and 6 are from the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey, and 24, 41 and 54 are from the NED database. These bright
quasars provide an invaluable sample for the kinematics and chemistry study of
the interstellar/intergalactic medium of the Local Group.