We give an algorithmic framework for minimizing general convex objectives
(that are differentiable and monotone non-decreasing) over a set of covering
constraints that arrive online. This substantially extends previous work on
online covering for linear objectives (Alon {\em et al.}, STOC 2003) and online
covering with offline packing constraints (Azar {\em et al.}, SODA 2013). To
the best of our knowledge, this is the first result in online optimization for
generic non-linear objectives; special cases of such objectives have previously
been considered, particularly for energy minimization.
  As a specific problem in this genre, we consider the unrelated machine
scheduling problem with startup costs and arbitrary $\ell_p$ norms on machine
loads (including the surprisingly non-trivial $\ell_1$ norm representing total
machine load). This problem was studied earlier for the makespan norm in both
the offline (Khuller~{\em et al.}, SODA 2010; Li and Khuller, SODA 2011) and
online settings (Azar {\em et al.}, SODA 2013). We adapt the two-phase approach
of obtaining a fractional solution and then rounding it online (used
successfully to many linear objectives) to the non-linear objective. The
fractional algorithm uses ideas from our general framework that we described
above (but does not fit the framework exactly because of non-positive entries
in the constraint matrix). The rounding algorithm uses ideas from offline
rounding of LPs with non-linear objectives (Azar and Epstein, STOC 2005; Kumar
{\em et al.}, FOCS 2005). Our competitive ratio is tight up to a logarithmic
factor. Finally, for the important special case of total load ($\ell_1$ norm),
we give a different rounding algorithm that obtains a better competitive ratio
than the generic rounding algorithm for $\ell_p$ norms. We show that this
competitive ratio is asymptotically tight.