We report new radial velocity observations of GP Vel/HD77581, the optical
companion to the eclipsing X-ray pulsar Vela X-1. Using data spanning more than
two complete orbits of the system, we detect evidence for tidally induced
non-radial oscillations on the surface of GP Vel, apparent as peaks in the
power spectrum of the residuals to the radial velocity curve fit. By removing
the effect of these oscillations (to first order) and binning the radial
velocities, we have determined the semi-amplitude of the radial velocity curve
of GP Vel to be K_o=22.6+/-1.5 km/s. Given the accurately measured
semi-amplitude of the pulsar's orbit, the mass ratio of the system is
0.081+/-0.005. We are able to set upper and lower limits on the masses of the
component stars as follows. Assuming GP Vel fills its Roche lobe then the
inclination angle of the system, i=70.1+/-2.6 deg. In this case we obtain the
masses of the two stars as M_x=2.27 +/-0.17 M_sun for the neutron star and
M_o=27.9+/-1.3 M_sun for GP Vel. Conversely, assuming the inclination angle is
i=90 deg, the ratio of the radius of GP Vel to the radius of its Roche lobe is
beta=0.89+/-0.03 and the masses of the two stars are M_x=1.88+/-0.13 M_sun and
M_o=23.1+/-0.2 M_sun. A range of solutions between these two sets of limits is
also possible, corresponding to other combinations of i and beta. In addition,
we note that if the zero phase of the radial velocity curve is allowed as a
free parameter, rather than constrained by the X-ray ephemeris, a significantly
improved fit is obtained with an amplitude of 21.2+/-0.7 km/s and a phase shift
of 0.033+/-0.007 in true anomaly. The apparent shift in the zero phase of the
radial velocity curve may indicate the presence of an additional radial
velocity component at the orbital period.