We perform a study of the interfacial properties of a model suspension of
hard sphere colloids with diameter $\sigma_c$ and non-adsorbing ideal polymer
coils with diameter $\sigma_p$. For the mixture in contact with a planar hard
wall, we obtain from simulations the wall-fluid interfacial free energy,
$\gamma_{wf}$, for size ratios $q=\sigma_p/\sigma_c=0.6$ and 1, using
thermodynamic integration, and study the (excess) adsorption of colloids,
$\Gamma_c$, and of polymers, $\Gamma_p$, at the hard wall. The interfacial
tension of the free liquid-gas interface, $\gamma_{lg}$, is obtained following
three different routes in simulations: i) from studying the system size
dependence of the interfacial width according to the predictions of capillary
wave theory, ii) from the probability distribution of the colloid density at
coexistence in the grand canonical ensemble, and iii) for statepoints where the
colloidal liquid wets the wall completely, from Young's equation relating
$\gamma_{lg}$ to the difference of wall-liquid and wall-gas interfacial
tensions, $\gamma_{wl}-\gamma_{wg}$. In addition, we calculate $\gamma_{wf},
\Gamma_c$, and $\Gamma_p$ using density functional theory and a scaled particle
theory based on free volume theory. Good agreement is found between the
simulation results and those from density functional theory, while the results
from scaled particle theory quantitatively deviate but reproduce some essential
features. Simulation results for $\gamma_{lg}$ obtained from the three
different routes are all in good agreement. Density functional theory predicts
$\gamma_{lg}$ with good accuracy for high polymer reservoir packing fractions,
but yields deviations from the simulation results close to the critical point.