We present the results of a Bayesian analysis of solar neutrino data in terms
of nu_e->nu_{mu,tau} and nu_e->nu_s oscillations, where nu_s is a sterile
neutrino. We perform a Rates Analysis of the rates of solar neutrino
experiments, including the first SNO CC result, and spectral data of the CHOOZ
experiment, and a Global Analysis that takes into account also the
Super-Kamiokande day and night electron energy spectra. We show that the
Bayesian analysis does not suffer any problem from the inclusion of the
numerous bins of the CHOOZ and Super-Kamiokande energy spectra and allows to
reach the same conclusions on the favored type of neutrino transitions and on
the determination of the most favored values of the oscillation parameters in
both the Rates and Global Analysis. Our Bayesian analysis shows that nu_e->nu_s
transitions are strongly disfavored with respect to nu_e->nu_{mu,tau}
transitions. In the case of nu_e->nu_{mu,tau} oscillations, the LMA region is
favored by the data (86% probability), the LOW region has some small chance
(13% probability), the VO region is almost excluded (1% probability) and the
SMA region is practically excluded (0.01% probability). We calculate also the
marginal posterior probability distributions for tan^2 theta and Delta m^2 and
we show that the data imply large mixing almost with certainty and large values
of Delta m^2 are favored. We present also the results of a standard
least-squares analysis and we show that the standard goodness of fit test is
not able to rejects pure nu_e->nu_s transitions. The likelihood ratio test
allows to reject pure nu_e->nu_s transitions in favor of nu_e->nu_{mu,tau}
transitions only in the Global Analysis.