We study future constraints on dark energy parameters determined from several
combinations of CMB experiments, supernova data, and weak lensing surveys with
and without tomography. In this analysis, we look in particular for
combinations that will bring the uncertainties to a level of precision tight
enough (a few percent) to answer decisively some of the dark energy questions.
We probe the dark energy using two variants of its equation of state, and its
energy density.We consider a set of 13 cosmological and systematic parameters,
and assume reasonable priors on the lensing and supernova systematics. We
consider various lensing surveys: a wide survey with f_{sky}=0.7, and with 2
(WLT2) and 5 (WLT5) tomographic bins; a deep survey with 10 bins (WLT10). The
constraints found from Planck, 2000 supernovae with z_max=0.8, and WLT2 are:
{sigma(w_0)=0.086, sigma(w_1)=0.069}, {sigma(w_0)=0.088, sigma(w_a)=0.11}, and
{sigma(E_1)=0.029, sigma(E_2)=0.065}. With 5 bins, we find {sigma(w_0)=0.04,
sigma(w_1)=0.034}, {sigma(w_0)=0.041, sigma(w_a)=0.056}, and {sigma(E_1)=0.012,
sigma(E_2)=0.049}. Finally, we find from Planck, 2000 supernovae with
z_max=1.5, and WLT10 with f_{sky}=0.1: {sigma(w_0)=0.032, sigma(w_1)=0.027},
{sigma(w_0)=0.033, sigma(w_a)=0.040}, and {sigma(E_1)=0.01, sigma(E_2)=0.04}.
Although some worries remain about other systematics, our study shows that
after the combination of the 3 probes, lensing tomography with many redshift
bins and large coverages of the sky has the potential to add key improvements
to the dark energy parameter constraints. However, the requirement for very
ambitious and sophisticated surveys in order to achieve some of the constraints
or to improve them suggests the need for new tests to probe the nature of dark
energy in addition to constraining its equation of state. (Abriged)