We present 4.5 {\mu}m luminosity functions for galaxies identified in 178
candidate galaxy clusters at 1.3 < z < 3.2. The clusters were identified as
Spitzer/IRAC color-selected overdensities in the Clusters Around Radio-Loud AGN
(CARLA) project, which imaged 421 powerful radio-loud AGN at z > 1.3. The
luminosity functions are derived for different redshift and richness bins, and
the IRAC imaging reaches depths of m*+2, allowing us to measure the faint end
slopes of the luminosity functions. We find that {\alpha} = -1 describes the
luminosity function very well in all redshifts bins and does not evolve
significantly. This provides evidence that the rate at which the low mass
galaxy population grows through star formation, gets quenched and is
replenished by in-falling field galaxies does not have a major net effect on
the shape of the luminosity function. Our measurements for m* are consistent
with passive evolution models and high formation redshifts z_f ~ 3. We find a
slight trend towards fainter m* for the richest clusters, implying that the
most massive clusters in our sample could contain older stellar populations,
yet another example of cosmic downsizing. Modelling shows that a contribution
of a star-forming population of up to 40% cannot be ruled out. This value,
found from our targeted survey, is significantly lower than the values found
for slightly lower redshift, z ~ 1, clusters found in wide-field surveys. The
results are consistent with cosmic downsizing, as the clusters studied here
were all found in the vicinity of radio-loud AGNs -- which have proven to be
preferentially located in massive dark matter halos in the richest environments
at high redshift -- they may therefore be older and more evolved systems than
the general protocluster population.