To develop, calibrate and/or validate continuum models from experimental or
numerical data, micro-macro transition methods are required. These methods are
used to obtain the continuum fields (such as density, momentum, stress) from
the discrete data (positions, velocities, forces). This is especially
challenging for non-uniform and dynamic situations in the presence of multiple
components. Here, we present a general method to perform this micro-macro
transition, but for simplicity we restrict our attention to two-component
scenarios, e.g. particulate mixtures containing two types of particles. We
present an extension to the micro-macro transition method, called
\emph{coarse-graining}, for unsteady two-component flows. By construction, this
novel averaging method is advantageous, e.g. when compared to binning methods,
because the obtained macroscopic fields are consistent with the continuum
equations of mass, momentum, and energy balance. Additionally, boundary
interaction forces can be taken into account in a self-consistent way and thus
allow for the construction of continuous stress fields even within one particle
radius of the boundaries. Similarly, stress and drag forces can also be
determined for individual constituents of a multi-component mixture, which is
essential for several continuum applications, \textit{e.g.} mixture theory
segregation models. Moreover, the method does not require ensemble-averaging
and thus can be efficiently exploited to investigate static, steady, and
time-dependent flows. The method presented in this paper is valid for any
discrete data, \textit{e.g.} particle simulations, molecular dynamics,
experimental data, etc.