We present a search for FRI radio galaxies between 1 < z < 2 in the COSMOS
field. In absence of spectroscopic redshift measurements, the selection method
is based on multiple steps which make use of both radio and optical
constraints. The basic assumptions are that 1) the break in radio power between
low-power FRIs and the more powerful FRIIs does not change with redshift, and
2) that the photometric properties of the host galaxies of low power radio
galaxies in the distant universe are similar to those of FRIIs in the same
redshift bin, as is the case for nearby radio galaxies. We describe the results
of our search, which yields 37 low-power radio galaxy candidates that are
possibly FRIs. We show that a large fraction of these low-luminosity radio
galaxies display a compact radio morphology, that does not correspond to the
FRI morphological classification. Furthermore, our objects are apparently
associated with galaxies that show clear signs of interactions, at odds with
the typical behavior observed in low-z FRI hosts. The compact radio morphology
might imply that we are observing intrinsically small and possibly young
objects, that will eventually evolve into the giant FRIs we observe in the
local universe. One of the objects appears as point-like in HST images. This
might belong to a population of FRI-QSOs, which however would represent a tiny
minority of the overall population of high-z FRIs. As for the local FRIs, a
large fraction of our objects are likely to be associated with groups or
clusters, making them "beacons" for high redshift clusters of galaxies. Our
search for candidate high-z FRIs we present in this paper constitutes a pilot
study for objects to be observed with future high-resolution and
high-sensitivity instruments (shortened)