Chromatin is a highly compact and dynamic nuclear structure that consists of
DNA and associated proteins. The main organizational unit is the nucleosome,
which consists of a histone octamer with DNA wrapped around it. Histone
proteins are implicated in the regulation of eukaryote genes and they carry
numerous reversible post-translational modifications that control DNA-protein
interactions and the recruitment of chromatin binding proteins.
Heterochromatin, the transcriptionally inactive part of the genome, is densely
packed and contains histone H3 that is methylated at Lys 9 (H3K9me). The
propagation of H3K9me in nucleosomes along the DNA in chromatin is antagonizing
by methylation of H3 Lysine 4 (H3K4me) and acetylations of several lysines,
which is related to euchromatin and active genes. We show that the related
histone modifications form antagonized domains on a coarse scale. These histone
marks are assumed to be initiated within distinct nucleation sites in the DNA
and to propagate bi-directionally. We propose a simple computer model that
simulates the distribution of heterochromatin in human chromosomes. The
simulations are in agreement with previously reported experimental observations
from two different human cell lines. We reproduced different types of barriers
between heterochromatin and euchromatin providing a unified model for their
function. The effect of changes in the nucleation site distribution and of
propagation rates were studied. The former occurs mainly with the aim of
(de-)activation of single genes or gene groups and the latter has the power of
controlling the transcriptional programs of entire chromosomes. Generally, the
regulatory program of gene transcription is controlled by the distribution of
nucleation sites along the DNA string.