We analyse the bivariate distribution, in color versus absolute magnitude
(u-r vs. M_r), of a low redshift sample of galaxies from the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey (SDSS; 2400 deg^2, 0.004<z<0.08, -23.5<M_r<-15.5). We trace the
bimodality of the distribution from luminous to faint galaxies by fitting
double-Gaussians to the color functions separated in absolute magnitude bins.
Color-magnitude (CM) relations are obtained for red and blue distributions
(early- and late-type, predominantly field, galaxies) without using any cut in
morphology. Instead, the analysis is based on the assumption of normal Gaussian
distributions in color. We find that the CM relations are well fit by a
straight line plus a tanh function. Both relations can be described by a
shallow CM trend (slopes of about -0.04, -0.05) plus a steeper transition in
the average galaxy properties over about two magnitudes. The midpoints of the
transitions (M_r=-19.8 and -20.8 for the red and blue distributions,
respectively) occur around 2x10^10 M_solar after converting luminosities to
stellar mass. Separate luminosity functions are obtained for the two
distributions. The red distribution has a more luminous characteristic
magnitude and a shallower faint-end slope (M^*=-21.5, alpha=-0.8) compared to
the blue distribution (alpha=-1.3 depending on the parameterization). These are
approximately converted to galaxy stellar mass functions. The red distribution
galaxies have a higher number density per magnitude for masses greater than
about 3x10^10 M_solar. Using a simple merger model, we show that the
differences between the two functions are consistent with the red distribution
being formed from major galaxy mergers.