We have searched for high-redshift supernova (SN) candidates in multiple deep
Hubble Space Telescope (HST) archival images of nine galaxy-cluster fields. We
detect six apparent SNe, with I814 between 21.6 and 28.4 mag. There is roughly
1 SN per deep (flux limit I814 > 26 mag), doubly-imaged, WFPC2 cluster field.
Two SNe are associated with cluster galaxies (at redshifts z=0.18 and z=0.83),
three are probably in galaxies not in the clusters (at z=0.49, z=0.60, and
z=0.98), and one is at unknown z. After accounting for observational
efficiencies and uncertainties (statistical and systematic) we derive the rate
of type-Ia SNe within the projected central 500 kpc of rich clusters:
R=0.20(+0.84)(-0.19) SNu in clusters at z=0.18 to 0.37, and
R=0.41(+1.23)(-0.39) SNu in clusters at z=0.83 to 1.27 (95 per cent confidence
interval; H_0=50; 1 SNu = 1 SN per century per 10^10 L_B_sun). Combining the
two redshift bins, the SN rate at a mean redshift of z=0.41 is R(z=0.41) =
0.30(+0.58)(-0.28) SNu. The upper bounds argue against SNe-Ia being the
dominant source of the large iron mass observed in the intra-cluster medium. We
also compare our observed counts of field SNe (i.e., non-cluster SNe of all
types) to recent model predictions. The observed field count is zero or one SN
with I814 < 26 mag, and 1 to 3 SNe with I814 < 27 mag. These counts are about
two times lower than some of the predictions. Since the counts at these
magnitudes are likely dominated by type-II SNe, our observations may suggest
obscuration of distant SNe-II, or a SN-II luminosity distribution devoid of a
large high-luminosity tail.