A physical model of the fluctuating vacuum (FlcVcm) and the photon as an
elementary collective excitation in a solitary needle cylindrical form are
offered. We assume that the FlcVcm is consistent by neutral dynamides, which
are streamlined in a close-packed crystalline lattice. Every dynamide is a
neutral pair, consistent by massless opposite point-like elementary electric
charges (ElmElcChrgs): electrino (-) and positrino (+). In an equilibrium
position two contrary Pnt-Lk ElmElcChrgs within every one dynamide are very
closely installed one to another and therefore its aggregate polarization and
its ElcFld also have zero values. However the absence of a mass in a rest of an
electrino and positrino makes possible they to display an infinitesimal
inertness of their own QntElcMgnFlds and a big mobility, what permits them to
be found a bigger time in an unequilibrium distorted position. The aggregate
ElcFld of dynamide reminds us that it could be considered as the QntElcFld of
an electric quasi-dipole because both massless electrino and positrino have the
same inertness. The aggregate ElcFld of every dynamide polarizes nearest
neighbour dynamides in an account of which they interact between them-self, on
account of which their photons display a wave character and behaviour. In order
to obtain a clear physical evidence and true physical explanation of an
emission and absorption of RlPhtns, I use Fermi method for the determination of
the time dependence of expansion coefficients of wave function of SchEl in a
hybrid state, using the solution of the Schrodinger quadratic differential wave
equation in partial derivatives with the potentials of Coulomb and of Lorentz
friction force.