We report extensive monte-carlo and event-driven molecular dynamics
simulations of a liquid composed by particles interacting via hard-sphere
interactions complemented by four tetrahedrally coordinated short-range
attractive ("sticky") spots, a model introduced several years ago by Kolafa and
Nezbeda [J. Kolafa and I. Nezbeda, Mol. Phys. 161, 87 (1987)]. To access the
dynamic properties of the model we introduce and implement a new event-driven
molecular dynamics algorithm suited to study the evolution of hard bodies
interacting, beside the repulsive hard-core, with a short-ranged inter-patch
square well potential. We evaluate the thermodynamic properties of the model in
deep supercooled states, where the bond network is fully developed, providing
evidence of density anomalies. We show that, differing from models of
spherically symmetric interacting particles, in a wide region of packing
fractions the liquid can be super-cooled without encountering the gas-liquid
spinodal. In particular, we suggest that there is one optimal packing fraction
(not very different from the hexagonal ice packing fraction) at which the bond
tetrahedral network fully develops. We find evidence of the dynamic anomalies
characterizing network forming liquids. Indeed, around the optimal network
packing, dynamics fasten both on increasing and decreasing the packing
fraction. Finally we locate the shape of the isodiffusivity lines in the
packing fraction-temperature plane and establish the shape of the dynamic
arrest line in the phase diagram of the model. Results are discussed in
connection to colloidal dispersions of sticky particles and gel forming
proteins and their ability to form dynamically arrested states.