We study the nearest neighbors one dimensional uniform q-model of force
fluctuations in bead packs [Coppersmith et al (1996)], a stochastic model to
simulate the stress of granular media in two dimensional silos. The vertical
coordinate plays the role of time, and the horizontal coordinate the role of
space. The process is a discrete time Markov process with state space
$\R^{\{1,...,N\}}$. At each layer (time), the weight supported by each grain is
a random variable of mean one (its own weight) plus the sum of random fractions
of the weights supported by the nearest neighboring grains at the previous
layer. The fraction of the weight given to the right neighbor of the successive
layer is a uniform random variable in $[0,1]$ independent of everything. The
remaining weight is given to the left neighbor. In the boundaries, a uniform
fraction of the weight leans on the wall of the silo. This corresponds to
\emph{absorbing boundary conditions}. For this model we show that there exists
a unique invariant measure. The mean weight at site $i$ under the invariant
measure is $i(N+1-i)$; we prove that its variance is $\frac12(i(N+1-i))^2 +
O(N^3)$ and the covariances between grains $i\neq j$ are of order $O(N^3)$.
Moreover, as $N\to\infty$, the law under the invariant measure of the weights
divided by $N^2$ around site (integer part of) $rN$, $r\in (0,1)$, converges to
a product of gamma distributions with parameters 2 and $2(r(1-r))^{-1}$ (sum of
two exponentials of mean $r(1-r)/2$). Liu {\it et al} (1995) proved that for a
silo with infinitely many weightless grains, any product of gamma distributions
with parameters 2 and $2/\rho$ with $\rho\in [0,\infty)$ are invariant. Our
result shows that as the silo grows, the model selects exactly one of these
Gamma's at each macroscopic place.