We have developed a simulation model to describe particle adsorption to and
desorption from liquid interfaces. Using this model we formulate a closed
interfacial equation of state for repulsive elastic spheres. The effect of a
long-range attractive interaction is introduced by perturbation theory, and the
effect a short-range attraction is studied using direct simulation. Based on
our model predictions we conclude that for polymeric particles the surface
pressure cannot be modelled directly by inert particles that interact via some
effective potential. Internal degrees of freedom within gel particles are
all-important. Consequently, the surface pressure of a fully packed layer is
not proportional to kT/d^2, where d is the particle diameter; but proportional
to kT/dm^2, where dm is the size of the molecular units that make up the
particle. This increases the surface pressure and modulus by some four orders
of magnitude. For short range interaction we study the dynamic behaviour, and
find fractal-like structures at low concentrations. At intermediate coverage an
irregular structure is formed that resembles a spinodal system. This system
freezes, which arrests the spinodal structure. At high surface coverage the
simulations show poly-crystalline domains. For dilute systems, the strength of
the surface layers is determined by simulated compression and expansion. We
find a power law for the surface pressure (Pi ~ Gamma^10+/-0.5), which is
related to the (fractal) structure of the adsorbed network. The power law is
consistent with surface percolation.