The All Sky Monitor (ASM) onboard the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) has
continuously monitored a number of Active galactic nuclei (AGNs) with similar
sampling rates for 14 years from 1996 January to 2009 December. Utilizing the
archival ASM data of 27 AGNs, we calculate the normalized excess variances of
the 300-day binned X-ray light curves on the longest timescale (between 300
days and 14 years) explored so far. The observed variance appears to be
independent of AGN black hole mass and bolometric luminosity, respectively.
According to the scaling relation with black hole mass (and bolometric
luminosity) from Galactic black hole X-ray binaries (GBHs) to AGNs, the break
timescales which correspond to the break frequencies detected in the power
spectral density (PSD) of our AGNs are larger than binsize (300 days) of the
ASM light curves. As a result, the singly broken power-law (soft-state) PSD
predicts the variance to be independent of mass and luminosity, respectively.
Nevertheless, the doubly-broken power-law (hard-state) PSD predicts, with the
widely accepted ratio of the two break frequencies, that the variance increases
with increasing mass and decreases with increasing luminosity, respectively.
Therefore, the independence of the observed variance on mass and luminosity
suggests that AGNs should have the soft-state PSDs. If taking into account the
scaling of breaking timescale with mass and luminosity synchronously, the
observed variances are also more consistent with the soft-state than the
hard-state PSD predictions. With the averaged variance of AGNs and the
soft-state PSD assumption, we obtain a universal PSD amplitude of
$0.030\pm0.022$. By analogy with the GBH PSDs in the high/soft state, the
longest timescale variability supports the standpoint that AGNs are scaled-up
GBHs in the high accretion state, as already implied by the direct PSD
analysis.