When extracting the weak lensing shear signal, one may employ either locally
normalized or globally normalized shear estimators. The former is the standard
approach when estimating cluster masses, while the latter is the more common
method among peak finding efforts. While both approaches have identical
signal-to-noise in the weak lensing limit, it is possible that higher order
corrections or systematics considerations make one estimator preferable over
the other. In this paper, we consider the efficacy of both estimators within
the context of stacked weak lensing mass estimation in the Dark Energy Survey
(DES). We find the two estimators have nearly identical statistical precision,
even after including higher order corrections, but that these corrections must
be incorporated into the analysis to avoid observationally relevant biases in
the recovered masses. We also demonstrate that finite bin-width effects may be
significant if not properly accounted for, and that the two estimators exhibit
different systematics, particularly with respect to contamination of the source
catalog by foreground galaxies. Thus, the two estimators may be employed as a
systematics cross-check of each other. Stacked weak lensing in the DES should
allow for the mean mass of galaxy clusters to be calibrated to about 2%
precision (statistical only), which can improve the figure of merit of the DES
cluster abundance experiment by a factor of ~3 relative to the self-calibration
expectation. A companion paper (Schmidt & Rozo, 2010) investigates how the two
types of estimators considered here impact weak lensing peak finding efforts.