Based on a recent photometric redshift galaxy catalogue, we have searched for
galaxy clusters in the Stripe~82 region of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey by
applying the Adami & MAzure Cluster FInder (AMACFI). Extensive tests were made
to fine-tune the AMACFI parameters and make the cluster detection as reliable
as possible. The same method was applied to the Millennium simulation to
estimate our detection efficiency and the approximate masses of the detected
clusters. Considering all the cluster galaxies (i.e. within a 1 Mpc radius of
the cluster to which they belong and with a photoz differing by less than 0.05
from that of the cluster), we stacked clusters in various redshift bins to
derive colour-magnitude diagrams and galaxy luminosity functions (GLFs). For
each galaxy with absolute magnitude brighter than -19.0 in the r band, we
computed the disk and spheroid components by applying SExtractor, and by
stacking clusters we determined how the disk-to-spheroid flux ratio varies with
cluster redshift and mass. We detected 3663 clusters in the redshift range
0.15<z<0.70, with estimated mean masses between 10^13 and a few 10^{14 solar
masses. By stacking the cluster galaxies in various redshift bins, we find a
clear red sequence in the (g'-r') versus r' colour-magnitude diagrams, and the
GLFs are typical of clusters, though with a possible contamination from field
galaxies. The morphological analysis of the cluster galaxies shows that the
fraction of late-type to early-type galaxies shows an increase with redshift
(particularly in high mass clusters) and a decrease with detection level, i.e.
cluster mass. From the properties of the cluster galaxies, the majority of the
candidate clusters detected here seem to be real clusters with typical cluster
properties.