We present extensive computational results for the effective temperature,
defined by the fluctuation-dissipation relation between the mean square
displacement and the average displacement of grains, under the action of a
weak, external perturbation, of a sheared, bi-disperse granular packing of
compressible spheres. We study the dependence of this parameter on the shear
rate and volume fractions, the type of particle and the observable in the
fluctuation-dissipation relation. We find the same temperature for different
tracer particles in the system. The temperature becomes independent on the
shear rate for slow enough shear suggesting that it is the effective
temperature of the jammed packing. However, we also show that the agreement of
the effective temperature for different observables is only approximate, for
very long times, suggesting that this defintion may not capture the full
thermodynamics of the system. On the other hand, we find good agreement between
the dynamical effective temperature and a compactivity calculated assuming that
all jammed states are equiprobable. Therefore, this definition of temperature
may capture an instance of the ergodic hypothesis for granular materials as
proposed by theoretical formalisms for jamming. Finally, our simulations
indicate that the average shear stress and apparent shear viscosity follow the
usual relation with the shear rate for complex fluids. Our results show that
the application of shear induces jamming in packings whose particles interact
by tangential forces.