We estimate and remove the contamination of weak gravitational lensing
measurements by the intrinsic alignment of close pairs of galaxies. We do this
by investigating both the aperture mass B mode statistic, and the shear
correlations of close and distant pairs of galaxies. We re-analyse the COMBO-17
survey, and study published results from the RCS and the VIRMOS-DESCART survey,
concluding that the intrinsic alignment effect is at the lower end of the range
of theoretical predictions. We also revisit this theoretical issue, and show
that misalignment of baryon and halo angular momenta may be an important effect
which can reduce the intrinsic ellipticity correlations estimated from
numerical simulations to the level that we and the SuperCOSMOS survey observe.
We re-examine the cosmological parameter estimation from the COMBO-17 survey,
now marginalising over the Hubble constant. Assuming no evolution in galaxy
clustering, and marginalising over the intrinsic alignment signal, we find the
mass clustering amplitude is reduced by 0.03 to sigma_8(Omega_m / 0.27)^0.6 =
0.71 +/- 0.11. We consider the forthcoming SNAP wide weak lensing survey, and
the CFHTLS wide synoptic survey, and expect them to be contaminated on scales
>1 arcmin by intrinsic alignments at the level of ~1% and ~2% respectively.
Division of the SNAP survey for lensing tomography significantly increases the
contamination in the lowest redshift bin to ~7% and possibly higher. Removal of
the intrinsic alignment effect by the downweighting of nearby galaxy pairs will
therefore be vital for SNAP, (abridged).