The nature of randomness in disordered packings of frictional and
frictionless spheres is investigated using theory and simulations of identical
spherical grains. The entropy of the packings is defined through the force and
volume ensemble of jammed matter and shown difficult to calculate analytically.
A mesoscopic ensemble of isostatic states is then utilized in an effort to
predict the entropy through the defnition of a volume function dependent on the
coordination number. Equations of state are obtained relating entropy, volume
fraction and compactivity characterizing the different states of jammed matter,
and elucidating the phase diagram for jammed granular matter. Analytical
calculations are compared to numerical simulations using volume fluctuation
analysis and graph theoretical methods, with reasonable agreement. The entropy
of the jammed system reveals that the random loose packings are more disordered
than random close packings, allowing for an unambiguous interpretation of both
limits. Ensemble calculations show that the entropy vanishes at random close
packing (RCP), while numerical simulations show that a finite entropy remains
in the microscopic states at RCP. The notion of a negative compactivity, that
explores states with volume fractions below those achievable by existing
simulation protocols, is also explored, expanding the equations of state. We
discuss possible extensions to the present mesoscopic approach describing
packings from RLP to RCP to the ordered branch of the equation of state in an
effort to understand the entropy of jammed matter in the full range of
densities from RLP to FCC.