(Abridged) Context: The Red MSX Source (RMS) survey is an ongoing
multi-wavelength observational programme designed to return a large,
well-selected sample of massive young stellar objects (MYSOs). We have
identified $\sim$2000 MYSO candidates located throughout the Galaxy by
comparing the colours of MSX and 2MASS point sources to those of known MYSOs.
Aims: To identify the populations of UCHII regions and PNe within the sample
and examine their Galactic distribution. Method: We have conducted high
resolution radio continuum observations at 6 cm towards 659 MYSO candidates in
the northern hemisphere ($10\degr< l < 250\degr$) using the VLA. In addition to
these targeted observations we present archival data towards a further 315 RMS
sources extracted from a previous VLA survey of the inner Galaxy. Results: We
find radio emission towards 272 ($\sim$27% of the observed sample). Using
results from other parts of our multi-wavelength survey we separate these
RMS-radio associations into two distinct types of objects, classifying 51 as
PNe and a further 208 as either compact or UC HII regions. Using this well
selected sample of HII regions we estimate their Galactic scale height to be
0.6\degr. Conclusions: Using radio continuum and archival data we have
identified 79 PNe and 391 HII regions within the northern RMS catalogue. We
estimate the total fraction of contamination by PNe in the RMS sample is of
order 10%. The sample of HII regions is probably the best representation to
date of the Galactic population of HII regions as a whole.