The emergence of "acoustic diode" (AD) capable of rectifying acoustic wave
like electrical diodes do to electricity has been believed to be able to offer
unconventional manipulation on sound, e.g., to isolate the wrong-way
reflection, and therefore have great potential in various important scenarios
such as medical ultrasound applications. However, the existing ADs have always
been suffering from the problem that the transmitted wave must have either
doubled frequency or deviated direction, lacking the most crucial features for
achieving such expectations in practice. Here we design and experimentally
demonstrate a broadband yet compact non-reciprocal device with hitherto
inaccessible functionality of maintaining the original frequency and high
forward transmission while virtually blocking the backscattered wave, which is
close to what a perfect AD is expected to provide and is promising to play the
essential role in realistic acoustic systems like electric diodes do in
electrical circuits. Such an extreme ability comes from inherently distinct
mechanism based on the exploration of the acoustic characteristics in complex
domain, in comparison to the previous designs that only utilize the real part
of acoustical parameters. Furthermore, our design enables improving the
sensitivity and the robustness of device simultaneously by tailoring an
individual structural parameter, which can be regarded as the unique advantage
over its electrical or thermal counterparts. We envision our design will take a
significant step towards the realization of applicable acoustic one-way devices
with potential applications in many scenarios, and inspire the research of
non-reciprocal wave manipulation in other fields like electromagnetics.