We reformulate the covering and quantizer problems as the determination of
the ground states of interacting particles in $\mathbb{R}^d$ that generally
involve single-body, two-body, three-body, and higher-body interactions. This
is done by linking the covering and quantizer problems to certain optimization
problems involving the "void" nearest-neighbor functions that arise in the
theory of random media and statistical mechanics. These reformulations, which
again exemplifies the deep interplay between geometry and physics, allow one
now to employ theoretical and numerical optimization techniques to analyze and
solve these energy minimization problems. The covering and quantizer problems
have relevance in numerous applications, including wireless communication
network layouts, the search of high-dimensional data parameter spaces,
stereotactic radiation therapy, data compression, digital communications,
meshing of space for numerical analysis, and coding and cryptography, among
other examples. The connections between the covering and quantizer problems and
the sphere-packing and number-variance problems are discussed. We also show
that disordered saturated sphere packings provide relatively thin (economical)
coverings and may yield thinner coverings than the best known lattice coverings
in sufficiently large dimensions. In the case of the quantizer problem, we
derive improved upper bounds on the quantizer error using sphere-packing
solutions, which are generally substantially sharper than an existing upper
bound in low to moderately large dimensions. We also demonstrate that
disordered saturated sphere packings yield relatively good quantizers. Finally,
we remark on possible applications of our results for the detection of
gravitational waves.