Let $\bk=(k_1,...,k_n)$ be a sequence of $n$ integers. For an increasing
monotone graph property $\mP$ we say that a base graph $G=([n],E)$ is
\emph{$\bk$-resilient} with respect to $\mP$ if for every subgraph $H\subseteq
G$ such that $d_H(i)\leq k_i$ for every $1\leq i\leq n$ the graph $G-H$
possesses $\mP$. This notion naturally extends the idea of the \emph{local
resilience} of graphs recently initiated by Sudakov and Vu. In this paper we
study the $\bk$-resilience of a typical graph from $\GNP$ with respect to the
Hamiltonicity property where we let $p$ range over all values for which the
base graph is expected to be Hamiltonian. In particular, we prove that for
every $\epsilon>0$ and $p\geq\frac{\ln n+\ln\ln n +\omega(1)}{n}$ if a graph is
sampled from $\GNP$ then with high probability removing from each vertex of
"small" degree all incident edges but two and from any other vertex at most a
$(\frac{1}{3}-\epsilon)$-fraction of the incident edges will result in a
Hamiltonian graph.
  Considering this generalized approach to the notion of resilience allows to
establish several corollaries which improve on the best known bounds of
Hamiltonicity related questions. It implies that for every positive
$\epsilon>0$ and large enough values of $K$, if $p>\frac{K\ln n}{n}$ then with
high probability the local resilience of $\GNP$ with respect to being
Hamiltonian is at least $(1-\epsilon)np/3$, improving on the previous bound for
this range of $p$. Another implication is a result on optimal packing of edge
disjoint Hamilton cycles in a random graph. We prove that if
$p\leq\frac{1.02\ln n}{n}$ then with high probability a graph $G$ sampled from
$\GNP$ contains $\lfloor\frac{\delta(G)}{2}\rfloor$ edge disjoint Hamilton
cycles, extending the previous range of $p$ for which this was known to hold.