We present results from a deep mid-IR survey of the Hubble Deep Field South
(HDF-S) region performed at 7 and 15um with the CAM instrument on board ISO. We
found reliable optical/near-IR associations for 32 of the 35 sources detected
in this field by Oliver et al. (2002, Paper I): eight of them were identified
as stars, one is definitely an AGN, a second seems likely to be an AGN, too,
while the remaining 22 appear to be normal spiral or starburst galaxies. Using
model spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of similar galaxies, we compare
methods for estimating the star formation rates (SFRs) in these objects,
finding that an estimator based on integrated (3-1000um) IR luminosity
reproduces the model SFRs best. Applying this estimator to model fits to the
SEDs of our 22 spiral and starburst galaxies, we find that they are forming
stars at rates of ~1-100 M_sol/yr, with a median value of ~40M_sol/yr, assuming
an Einstein - de Sitter universe with a Hubble constant of 50 km/s/Mpc, and
star formation taking place according to a Salpeter (1955) IMF across the mass
range 0.1-100M_sol. We split the redshift range 0.0<z<0.6 into two equal-volume
bins to compute raw estimates of the star formation rate density contributed by
these sources, assuming the same cosmology and IMF as above and computing
errors based on estimated uncertainties in the SFRs of individual galaxies. We
compare these results with other estimates of the SFR density made with the
same assumptions, showing them to be consistent with the results of Flores et
al. (1999) from their ISO survey of the CFRS 1415+52 field. However, the
relatively small volume of our survey means that our SFR density estimates
suffer from a large sampling variance, implying that our results, by
themselves, do not place tight constraints on the global mean SFR density.