(ABRIDGED) We present a power spectrum analysis of the 10K catalogue from the
2dF QSO Redshift Survey. We compare the redshift-space power spectra of QSOs to
those measured for galaxies and Abell clusters at low redshift and find that
they show similar shapes in their overlap range, 50-150h^{-1}Mpc, with
P_QSO(k)\propto k^{-1.4}. The amplitude of the QSO power spectrum at z~1.4 is
almost comparable to that of galaxies at the present day if Omega_m=0.3 and
Omega_Lambda=0.7 (the Lambda cosmology), and a factor of ~3 lower if Omega_m=1
(the EdS cosmology) is assumed. The amplitude of the QSO power spectrum is a
factor of ~10 lower than that measured for Abell clusters at the present day.
At larger scales, the QSO power spectra continue to rise robustly to ~400
h^{-1}Mpc, implying more power at large scales than in the APM galaxy power
spectrum measured by Baugh & Efstathiou.
  We split the QSO sample into two redshift bins and find little evolution in
the amplitude of the power spectrum. The QSO power spectrum may show a spike
feature at ~90h^{-1}Mpc assuming the Lambda cosmology or ~65 h^{-1}Mpc assuming
an EdS cosmology. Although the spike appears to reproduce in both the North and
South strips and in two independent redshift ranges, its statistical
significance is still marginal and more data is needed to test further its
reality.
  We compare the QSO power spectra to CDM models to obtain a constraint on the
shape parameter, Gamma. For two choices of cosmology (Omega_m=1, Omega_Lambda=0
and Omega_m=0.3, Omega_Lambda=0.7), we find the best fit model has Gamma~0.1
+-0.1.