Recent cosmic ray, gamma ray, and microwave signals observed by Fermi,
PAMELA, and WMAP indicate an unexpected primary source of e+e- at 10-1000 GeV.
We fit these data to "standard backgrounds" plus a new source, assumed to be a
separable function of position and energy. For the spatial part, we consider
three cases: annihilating dark matter, decaying dark matter, and pulsars. In
each case, we use GALPROP to inject energy in log-spaced energy bins and
compute the expected cosmic-ray and photon signals for each bin. We then fit a
linear combination of energy bins, plus backgrounds, to the data. We use a
non-parametric fit, with no prior constraints on the spectrum except smoothness
and non-negativity. In addition, we consider arbitrary modifications to the
energy spectrum of the "ordinary" primary source function, fixing its spatial
part, finding this alone to be inadequate to explain the PAMELA or WMAP
signals. We explore variations in the fits due to choice of magnetic field,
primary electron injection index, spatial profiles, propagation parameters, and
fit regularization method. Dark matter annihilation fits well, where our fit
finds a mass of ~1 TeV and a boost factor times energy fraction of ~70. While
it is possible for dark matter decay and pulsars to fit the data,
unconventionally high magnetic fields and radiation densities are required near
the Galactic Center to counter the relative shallowness of the assumed spatial
profiles. We also fit to linear combinations of these three scenarios, though
the fit is much less constrained.