We describe the current status of two complementary programs to search for
objects with strong emission lines in a ~300 A gap, centered at 9150 A, in the
strong airglow emission. Both programs are being carried out with LRIS on the
Keck II telescope. The first of these uses broad-band and narrow-band filter
photometry to select candidates, followed by multi-slit spectroscopy through
the same narrow-band filter to limit the bandpass and allow a dense packing of
slits. The second uses six parallel long slits to carry out a blind
spectroscopic search through the filter isolating the 9150 A window. The total
slit area covered ranges from 1 to 3.5 square arcmin per pointing, depending on
slit width, and we can obtain 3-sigma detections of emission lines of <2 x
10^-18 erg/cm^2/s in a 12000 s observation with 1.5 arcsec slits.
  Because, for faint objects in both programs, we are most sensitive to strong
lines with large equivalent widths, most of our detections will be restricted
to a few specific emission lines at certain discrete redshifts. One of the more
interesting possibilities is Ly-alpha at z~6.5. However, even with 12000 s
integrations on the Keck II telescope, our narrow-band imaging does not pick up
objects with emission-line fluxes less than 10^-17 erg/cm^2/s. With this limit,
at z~6.5, we would pick up only the most luminous of the z>5 objects discovered
so far. Our blind spectroscopic search potentially has a better chance of
discovering such objects, but we have not yet found any definite examples in
the limited area of the sky we have covered to date. We discuss the criteria
for identifying Ly-alpha emission in noisy spectra and emphasize how
high-ionization dwarf galaxies at low redshift can be mistaken for Ly-alpha
candidates under certain conditions.