We study the soft excess variability of the narrow line Seyfert 1 galaxy IRAS
13224-3809. We considered all five archival XMM-Newton observations, and we
applied the 'flux-flux plot' (FFP) method. We found that the flux-flux plots
were highly affected by the choice of the light curves' time bin size, most
probably because of the fast and large amplitude variations, and the intrinsic
non-linear flux--flux relations in this source. Therefore, we recommend that
the smallest bin-size should be used in such cases. Hence, We constructed FFPs
in 11 energy bands below 1.7 keV, and we considered the 1.7-3 keV band, as
being representative of the primary emission. The FFPs are reasonably well
fitted by a 'power-law plus a constant' model. We detected significant positive
constants in three out of five observations. The best-fit slopes are flatter
than unity at energies below $\sim 0.9$ keV, where the soft excess is
strongest. This suggests the presence of intrinsic spectral variability. A
power-law-like primary component, which is variable in flux and spectral slope
(as $\Gamma\propto N_{\rm PL}^{0.1}$) and a soft-excess component, which varies
with the primary continuum (as $F_{\rm excess}\propto F_{\rm primary}^{0.46}$),
can broadly explain the FFPs. In fact, this can create positive `constants',
even when a stable spectral component does not exist. Nevertheless, the
possibility of a stable, soft--band constant component cannot be ruled out, but
its contribution to the observed 0.2-1 keV band flux should be less than $\sim
15$ %. The model constants in the FFPs were consistent with zero in one
observation, and negative at energies below 1 keV in another. It is hard to
explain these results in the context of any spectral variability scenario, but
they may signify the presence of a variable, warm absorber in the source.