We use Monte Carlo simulations to study polymer melts consisting of fully
flexible and moderately stiff chains in the bond fluctuation model at a volume
fraction $0.5$. In order to reduce the local density fluctuations, we test a
pre-packing process for the preparation of the initial configurations of the
polymer melts, before the excluded volume interaction is switched on
completely. This process leads to a significantly faster decrease of the number
of overlapping monomers on the lattice. This is useful for simulating very
large systems, where the statistical properties of the model with a marginally
incomplete elimination of excluded volume violations are the same as those of
the model with strictly excluded volume. We find that the internal mean square
end-to-end distance for moderately stiff chains in a melt can be very well
described by a freely rotating chain model with a precise estimate of the
bond-bond orientational correlation between two successive bond vectors in
equilibrium. The plot of the probability distributions of the reduced
end-to-end distance of chains of different stiffness also shows that the data
collapse is excellent and described very well by the Gaussian distribution for
ideal chains. However, while our results confirm the systematic deviations
between Gaussian statistics for the chain structure factor $S_c(q)$ [minimum in
the Kratky-plot] found by Wittmer et al.~\{EPL {\bf 77} 56003 (2007).\} for
fully flexible chains in a melt, we show that for the available chain length
these deviations are no longer visible, when the chain stiffness is included.
The mean square bond length and the compressibility estimated from collective
structure factors depend slightly on the stiffness of the chains.