We present results of Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory EGRET observations of the
unidentified high-energy gamma-ray sources 2EG J1049-5847 (GEV J1047-5840, 3EG
J1048-5840) and 2EG J1103-6106 (3EG J1102-6103). These sources are spatially
coincident with the young, energetic radio pulsars PSRs B1046-58 and
J1105-6107, respectively. We find evidence for an association between PSR
B1046-58 and 2EG J1049-5847. The gamma-ray pulse profile, obtained by folding
time-tagged photons having energies above 400 MeV using contemporaneous radio
ephemerides, has probability of arising by chance of 1.2E-4 according to the
binning-independent H-test. A spatial analysis of the on-pulse photons reveals
a point source of equivalent significance 10.2 sigma. Off-pulse, the
significance drops to 5.8 sigma. Archival ASCA data show that the only hard
X-ray point source in the 95% confidence error box of the gamma-ray source is
spatially coincident with the pulsar within the 1' uncertainty (Pivovaroff,
Kaspi & Gotthelf 1999). The double peaked gamma-ray pulse morphology and
leading radio pulse are similar to those seen for other gamma-ray pulsars and
are well-explained in models in which the gamma-ray emission is produced in
charge-depleted gaps in the outer magnetosphere. The inferred pulsed gamma-ray
flux above 400 MeV, (2.5 +/- 0.6) x 10E-10 erg/cm^2/s, represents 0.011 +/-
0.003 of the pulsar's spin-down luminosity, for a distance of 3 kpc and 1 sr
beaming. For PSR J1105-6107, light curves obtained by folding EGRET photons
using contemporaneous radio ephemerides show no significant features. We
conclude that this pulsar converts less than 0.014 of its spin-down luminosity
into E > 100 MeV gamma-rays beaming in our direction (99% confidence), assuming
a distance of 7 kpc, 1 sr beaming and a duty cycle of 0.5.