We use the Spitzer Wide-area InfraRed Extragalactic Legacy Survey (SWIRE) to
explore the specific star-formation activity of galaxies and their evolution
near the peak of the cosmic far-infrared (FIR) background at 70 and 160um. We
use a stacking analysis to determine the mean FIR properties of well defined
subsets of galaxies at flux levels well below the FIR catalogue detection
limits of SWIRE and other Spitzer surveys. We tabulate the contribution of
different subsets of galaxies to the FIR background at 70um and 160um. These
long wavelengths provide a good constraint on the bolometric, obscured
emission. The large area provides good constraints at low z and in finer
redshift bins than previous work. At all redshifts we find that the specific
FIR Luminosity (sLFIR) decreases with increasing mass, following a trend
L_FIR/M* propto M_* ^beta with beta =-0.38\pm0.14. This is a more continuous
change than expected from the {Delucia2007} semi-analytic model suggesting
modifications to the feedback prescriptions. We see an increase in the sLFIR by
about a factor of ~100 from 0<z<2 and find that the sLFIR evolves as
(1+z)^alpha with alpha=4.4\pm0.3 for galaxies with 10.5 < log M*/Msun < 12.
This is considerably steeper than the {Delucia2007} semi-analytic model (alpha
\sim 2.5). When separating galaxies into early and late types on the basis of
the optical/IR spectral energy distributions we find that the decrease in sLFIR
with stellar mass is stronger in early type galaxies (beta ~ -0.46), while late
type galaxies exhibit a flatter trend (beta \sim -0.15). The evolution is
strong for both classes but stronger for the early type galaxies. The early
types show a trend of decreasing strength of evolution as we move from lower to
higher masses while the evolution of the late type galaxies has little
dependence on stellar mass. We suggest that in late-type galaxies we are seeing
a consistently declining sSFR..