We measured angular distributions of differential cross section, beam
analyzing power, and recoil polarization for neutral pion electroproduction at
Q^2 = 1.0 (GeV/c)^2 in 10 bins of W across the Delta resonance. A total of 16
independent response functions were extracted, of which 12 were observed for
the first time. Comparisons with recent model calculations show that response
functions governed by real parts of interference products are determined
relatively well near 1.232 GeV, but variations among models is large for
response functions governed by imaginary parts and for both increases rapidly
with W. We performed a nearly model-independent multipole analysis that adjusts
complex multipoles with high partial waves constrained by baseline models.
Parabolic fits to the W dependence of the multipole analysis around the Delta
mass gives values for SMR = (-6.61 +/- 0.18)% and EMR = (-2.87 +/- 0.19)% that
are distinctly larger than those from Legendre analysis of the same data.
Similarly, the multipole analysis gives Re(S0+/M1+) = (+7.1 +/- 0.8)% at
W=1.232 GeV, consistent with recent models, while the traditional Legendre
analysis gives the opposite sign because its truncation errors are quite
severe. Finally, using a unitary isobar model (UIM), we find that excitation of
the Roper resonance is dominantly longitudinal with S1/2 = (0.05 +/- 0.01)
GeV^(-1/2) at Q^2=1. The ReS0+ and ReE0+ multipoles favor pseudovector coupling
over pseudoscalar coupling or a recently proposed mixed-coupling scheme, but
the UIM does not reproduce the imaginary parts of 0+ multipoles well.