We present direct constraints on the CO luminosity function at high redshift
and the resulting cosmic evolution of the molecular gas density, $\rho_{\rm
H2}$(z), based on a blind molecular line scan in the Hubble Deep Field North
(HDF-N) using the IRAM Plateau de Bure Interferometer. Our line scan of the
entire 3mm window (79-115 GHz) covers a cosmic volume of ~7000 Mpc$^3$, and
redshift ranges z<0.45, 1.01<z<1.89 and z>2. We use the rich multiwavelength
and spectroscopic database of the HDF-N to derive some of the best constraints
on CO luminosities in high redshift galaxies to date. We combine the blind CO
detections in our molecular line scan (presented in a companion paper) with
stacked CO limits from galaxies with available spectroscopic redshifts (slit or
mask spectroscopy from Keck and grism spectroscopy from HST) to give first
blind constraints on high-z CO luminosity functions and the cosmic evolution of
the H2 mass density $\rho_{\rm H2}$(z) out to redshifts z~3. A comparison to
empirical predictions of $\rho_{\rm H2}$(z) shows that the securely detected
sources in our molecular line scan already provide significant contributions to
the predicted $\rho_{\rm H2}$(z) in the redshift bins <z>~1.5 and <z>~2.7.
Accounting for galaxies with CO luminosities that are not probed by our
observations results in cosmic molecular gas densities $\rho_{\rm H2}$(z) that
are higher than current predictions. We note however that the current
uncertainties (in particular the luminosity limits, number of detections, as
well as cosmic volume probed) are significant, a situation that is about to
change with the emerging ALMA observatory.