In the search for bottom squark (sbottom) in SUSY at the LHC, the common
practice has been to assume a $100\%$ decay branching fraction for a given
search channel. In realistic MSSM scenarios, there are often more than one
significant decay modes to be present, which significantly weaken the current
sbottom search limits at the LHC. On the other hand, the combination of the
multiple decay modes offers alternative discovery channels for sbottom
searches. In this paper, we present the sbottom decays in a few representative
mass parameter scenarios. We then analyze the sbottom signal for the pair
production in QCD with one sbottom decaying via $\tilde{b}\rightarrow b
\chi_1^0,\ b \chi_2^0$, and the other one decaying via $\tilde{b} \rightarrow t
\chi_1^\pm$. With the gaugino subsequent decaying to gauge bosons or a Higgs
boson $\chi_2^0 \rightarrow Z \chi_1^0,\ h \chi_1^0$ and $\chi_1^\pm
\rightarrow W^\pm \chi_1^0$, we study the reach of those signals at the 14 TeV
LHC with 300 ${\rm fb^{-1}}$ integrated luminosity. For a left-handed bottom
squark, we find that a mass up to 920 GeV can be discovered at 5$\sigma$
significance for 250 GeV $< m_{\chi_1^0} <$ 350 GeV, or excluded up to 1050 GeV
at the 95\% confidence level for the $h$ channel ($\mu>0$); similarly, it can
be discovered up to 840 GeV, or excluded up to 900 GeV at the 95\% confidence
level for the $Z$ channel ($\mu<0$). The sbottom and stop signals in the same
SUSY parameter scenario are combined to obtain the optimal sensitivity, which
is about 150 GeV better than the individual reach of the sbottom or stop. For a
right-handed bottom squark with $\tilde{b} \tilde{b}^* \rightarrow b \chi_1^0,\
t \chi_1^\pm$ channel, we find that the sbottom mass up to 880 GeV can be
discovered at 5$\sigma$ significance, or excluded up to 1060 GeV at the 95\%
confidence level.