We extend the results from the first part of this series of two papers by
examining hyperuniformity in heterogeneous media composed of impenetrable
anisotropic inclusions. Specifically, we consider maximally random jammed
packings of hard ellipses and superdisks and show that these systems both
possess vanishing infinite-wavelength local-volume-fraction fluctuations and
quasi-long-range pair correlations. Our results suggest a strong generalization
of a conjecture by Torquato and Stillinger [Phys. Rev. E. 68, 041113 (2003)],
namely that all strictly jammed saturated packings of hard particles, including
those with size- and shape-distributions, are hyperuniform with signature
quasi-long-range correlations. We show that our arguments concerning the
constrained distribution of the void space in MRJ packings directly extend to
hard ellipse and superdisk packings, thereby providing a direct structural
explanation for the appearance of hyperuniformity and quasi-long-range
correlations in these systems. Additionally, we examine general heterogeneous
media with anisotropic inclusions and show for the first time that one can
decorate a periodic point pattern to obtain a hard-particle system that is not
hyperuniform with respect to local-volume-fraction fluctuations. This apparent
discrepancy can also be rationalized by appealing to the irregular distribution
of the void space arising from the anisotropic shapes of the particles. Our
work suggests the intriguing possibility that the MRJ states of hard particles
share certain universal features independent of the local properties of the
packings, including the packing fraction and average contact number per
particle.