In the last quarter of a century, a unified characterization of the spectral
evolution of low-mass X-ray binaries, both containing a neutron star and a
black hole, was possible. In this context, the notion of source states
characterizing the X-ray emission from black-hole binaries and neutron-star
low-mass X-ray binaries revealed to be a very useful tool to disentangle the
complex spectral and aperiodic phenomenology displayed by those classes of
accreting objects. Be/X-ray binaries constitute another major class of
transient accreting binaries, for which very little work has been done on the
correlated timing and spectral variability. Especially, no definition of source
states exists for this class, in spite of their highly variable X-ray emission.
When active, Be/X-ray binaries are among the brightest objects in the X-ray sky
and are characterized by dramatic variability in brightness on timescales
ranging from seconds to years. It is then worth it to ask whether a definition
of spectral states is possible for these systems. In this work, we try to
address such a question, investigating whether accreting X-ray pulsars display
source states and characterizing those states through their spectral
properties. Our results show that Be/X-ray pulsars trace two different branches
in their hardness-intensity diagram: the horizontal branch, a low-intensity
state, and the diagonal branch, a high-intensity state that only appears when
the X-ray luminosity exceeds a critical limit. We propose that the two branches
are the phenomenological signature of two different accretion modes -- in
agreement with recently proposed models -- depending on whether the luminosity
of the source is above or below a critical value.