We study the multi-receiver wiretap channel with public and confidential
messages. In this channel, there is a transmitter that wishes to communicate
with two legitimate users in the presence of an external eavesdropper. The
transmitter sends a pair of public and confidential messages to each legitimate
user. While there are no secrecy constraints on the public messages,
confidential messages need to be transmitted in perfect secrecy. We study the
discrete memoryless multi-receiver wiretap channel as well as its Gaussian
multi-input multi-output (MIMO) instance. First, we consider the degraded
discrete memoryless channel, and obtain an inner bound for the capacity region
by using an achievable scheme that uses superposition coding and binning. Next,
we obtain an outer bound, and show that this outer bound partially matches the
inner bound, providing a partial characterization for the capacity region of
the degraded channel model. Second, we obtain an inner bound for the general,
not necessarily degraded, discrete memoryless channel by using Marton's inner
bound, superposition coding, rate-splitting and binning. Third, we consider the
degraded Gaussian MIMO channel, and show that, to evaluate both the inner and
outer bounds, considering only jointly Gaussian auxiliary random variables and
channel input is sufficient. Since the inner and outer bounds partially match,
these sufficiency results provide a partial characterization of the capacity
region of the degraded Gaussian MIMO channel. Finally, we provide an inner
bound for the capacity region of the general, not necessarily degraded,
Gaussian MIMO multi-receiver wiretap channel.