We consider two specific approaches to evaluate the black hole entropy which
are known to produce correct results in the case of Einstein's theory and
generalize them to Lanczos-Lovelock models. In the first approach (which could
be called extrinsic) we use a procedure motivated by earlier work by Pretorius,
Vollick and Israel, and by Oppenheim, and evaluate the entropy of a
configuration of densely packed gravitating shells on the verge of forming a
black hole in Lanczos-Lovelock theories of gravity. We find that this matter
entropy is not equal to (it is less than) Wald entropy, except in the case of
Einstein theory, where they are equal. The matter entropy is proportional to
the Wald entropy if we consider a specific m-th order Lanczos-Lovelock model,
with the proportionality constant depending on the spacetime dimensions D and
the order m of the Lanczos-Lovelock theory as (D-2m)/(D-2). Since the
proportionality constant depends on m, the proportionality between matter
entropy and Wald entropy breaks down when we consider a sum of Lanczos-Lovelock
actions involving different m. In the second approach (which could be called
intrinsic) we generalize a procedure, previously introduced by Padmanabhan in
the context of GR, to study off-shell entropy of a class of metrics with
horizon using a path integral method. We consider the Euclidean action of
Lanczos-Lovelock models for a class of metrics off-shell and interpret it as a
partition function. We show that in the case of spherically symmetric metrics,
one can interpret the Euclidean action as the free energy and read off both the
entropy and energy of a black hole spacetime. Surprisingly enough, this leads
to exactly the Wald entropy and the energy of the spacetime in Lanczos-Lovelock
models obtained by other methods. We comment on possible implications of the
result.