We focus on an analysis of galaxies of high stellar mass and low metallicity.
We cross-correlated the Millenium Galaxy Catalogue (MGC) and the Sloan Digital
Sky Survey (SDSS) galaxy catalogue to provide a sample of MGC objects with high
resolution imaging and both spectroscopic and photometric information available
in the SDSS database. For each galaxy in our sample, we conducted a systematic
morphological analysis by visual inspection of MGC images using their
luminosity contours. The galaxies are classified as either disturbed or
undisturbed objects. We divide the sample into three metallicity regions,
within wich we compare the properties of disturbed and undisturbed objects. We
find that the fraction of galaxies that are strongly disturbed, indicative of
being merger remnants, is higher when lower metallicity objects are considered.
The three bins analysed consist of approximatively 15%, 20%, and 50% disturbed
galaxies (for high, medium, and low metallicity, respectively). Moreover, the
ratio of the disturbed to undisturbed relative distributions of the population
age indicator, Dn(4000), in the low metallicity bin, indicates that the
disturbed objects have substantially younger stellar populations than their
undisturbed counterparts. In addition, we find that an analysis of colour
distributions provides similar results, showing that low metallicity galaxies
with a disturbed morphology are bluer than those that are undisturbed. The
bluer colours and younger populations of the low metallicity, morphologically
disturbed objects suggest that they have experienced a recent merger with an
associated enhanced star formation rate. [abridged]