The elastic moduli of four numerical random isotropic packings of Hertzian
spheres are studied. The four samples are assembled with different preparation
procedures, two of which aim to reproduce experimental compaction by vibration
and lubrication. The mechanical properties of the samples are found to change
with the preparation history, and to depend much more on coordination number
than on density.
  Secondly, the fluctuations in the particle displacements from the average
strain are analysed, and the way they affect the macroscopic behavior analyzed.
It is found that only the average over equally oriented contacts of the
relative displacement these fluctuations induce is relevant at the macroscopic
scale. This average depends on coordination number, average geometry of the
contact network and average contact stiffness. As far as the separate
contributions from particle displacements and rotations are concerned, the
former is found to counteract the average strain along the contact normal,
while the latter do in the tangential plane. Conversely, the tangential
components of the center displacements mainly arise to enforce local
equilibrium, and have a small, and generally stiffening effect at the
macro-scale.
  Finally, the fluctuations and the shear modulus that result from two
approaches available in the literature are estimated numerically. These
approaches are both based on the equilibrium of a small-sized representative
assembly. The improvement of these estimate with respect to the average strain
assumption indicates that the fluctuations relevant to the macroscopic behavior
occur with short correlation length.