Emission from X-ray binaries (XRBs) is a major component of the total X-ray
luminosity of normal galaxies, so X-ray studies of high redshift galaxies allow
us to probe the formation and evolution of X-ray binaries on very long
timescales. In this paper, we present results from large-scale population
synthesis models of binary populations in galaxies from z = 0 to 20. We use as
input into our modeling the Millennium II Cosmological Simulation and the
updated semi-analytic galaxy catalog by Guo et al. (2011) to self-consistently
account for the star formation history (SFH) and metallicity evolution of each
galaxy. We run a grid of 192 models, varying all the parameters known from
previous studies to affect the evolution of XRBs. We use our models and
observationally derived prescriptions for hot gas emission to create
theoretical galaxy X-ray luminosity functions (XLFs) for several redshift bins.
Models with low CE efficiencies, a 50% twins mass ratio distribution, a steeper
IMF exponent, and high stellar wind mass loss rates best match observational
results from Tzanavaris & Georgantopoulos (2008), though they significantly
underproduce bright early-type and very bright (Lx > 10d41) late-type galaxies.
These discrepancies are likely caused by uncertainties in hot gas emission and
SFHs, AGN contamination, and a lack of dynamically formed Low-mass XRBs. In our
highest likelihood models, we find that hot gas emission dominates the emission
for most bright galaxies. We also find that the evolution of the normal galaxy
X-ray luminosity density out to z = 4 is driven largely by XRBs in galaxies
with X-ray luminosities between 10d40 and 10d41 erg/s.