We study properties of the superorbital modulation of the X-ray emission of
Cyg X-1. We find that it has had a stable period of about 300 d in soft and
hard X-rays and in radio since 2005 until at least 2010, which is about double
the previously seen period. This new period, seen in the hard spectral state
only, is detected not only in the light curves but also in soft X-ray hardness
ratios and in the amplitude of the orbital modulation. On the other hand, the
spectral slope in hard X-rays, >20 keV, averaged over superorbital bins is
constant, and the soft and hard X-rays and the radio emission change in phase.
This shows that the superorbital variability consists of changing the
normalization of an intrinsic spectrum of a constant shape and of changes of
the absorbing column density with the phase. The maximum column density is
achieved at the superorbital minimum. The amplitude changes are likely to be
caused by a changing viewing angle of an anisotropic emitter, most likely a
precessing accretion disc. The constant shape of the intrinsic spectrum shows
that this modulation is not caused by a changing accretion rate. The modulated
absorbing column density shows the presence of a bulge around the disc centre,
as proposed previously. We also find the change of the superorbital period from
about 150 d to about 300 d to be associated with almost unchanged average X-ray
fluxes, making the period change difficult to explain in the framework of
disc-irradiation models. Finally, we find no correlation of the X-ray and radio
properties with the reported detections in the GeV and TeV gamma-ray range.