We analyse the dynamics of a two dimensional system of interacting active
dumbbells. We characterise the mean-square displacement, linear response
function and deviation from the equilibrium fluctuation-dissipation theorem as
a function of activity strength, packing fraction and temperature for
parameters such that the system is in its homogeneous phase. While the
diffusion constant in the last diffusive regime naturally increases with
activity and decreases with packing fraction, we exhibit an intriguing
non-monotonic dependence on the activity of the ratio between the finite
density and the single particle diffusion constants. At fixed packing fraction,
the time-integrated linear response function depends non-monotonically on
activity strength. The effective temperature extracted from the ratio between
the integrated linear response and the mean-square displacement in the last
diffusive regime is always higher than the ambient temperature, increases with
increasing activity and, for small active force it monotonically increases with
density while for sufficiently high activity it first increases to next
decrease with the packing fraction. We ascribe this peculiar effect to the
existence of finite-size clusters for sufficiently high activity and density at
the fixed (low) temperatures at which we worked. The crossover occurs at lower
activity or density the lower the external temperature. The finite density
effective temperature is higher (lower) than the single dumbbell one below
(above) a cross-over value of the Peclet number.