We present an analysis of the evolution of galaxy clustering in the redshift
interval 0<z<4.5 in the HDF-S. The HST optical data are combined with infrared
ISAAC/VLT observations, and photometric redshifts are used for all the galaxies
brighter than I_AB<27.5. The clustering signal is obtained in different
redshift bins using two different approaches: a standard one, which uses the
best redshift estimate of each object, and a second one, which takes into
account the redshift probability function of each object. This second method
makes it possible to improve the information in the redshift intervals where
contamination from objects with insecure redshifts is important. With both
methods, we find that the clustering strength up to z~3.5 in the HDF-S is
consistent with the previous results in the HDF-N. While at redshift lower than
z~1 the HDF galaxy population is un/anti-biased (b<1) with respect to the
underlying dark matter, at high redshift the bias increases up to b~2-3,
depending on the cosmological model. These results support previous claims
that, at high redshift, galaxies are preferentially located in massive haloes,
as predicted by the biased galaxy formation scenario. The impact of cosmic
errors on our analyses has been quantified, showing that errors in the
clustering measurements in the HDF surveys are indeed dominated by shot-noise
in most regimes. Future observations with instruments like the ACS on HST will
improve the S/N by at least a factor of two and more detailed analyses of the
errors will be required. In fact, pure shot-noise will give a smaller
contribution with respect to other sources of errors, such as finite volume
effects or non-Poissonian discreteness effects.