We provide numerical constructions of one-dimensional hyperuniform
many-particle distributions that exhibit unusual clustering and asymptotic
local number density fluctuations growing more slowly than the volume of an
observation window but faster than the surface area. By targeting a specified
form of the structure factor at small wavenumbers using collective density
variables, we are able to tailor the form of asymptotic local density
fluctuations while simultaneously measuring the effect of imposing weak and
strong constraints on the available degrees of freedom within the system. Even
in one dimension, the long-range effective interactions induce clustering and
nontrivial phase transitions in the resulting ground-state configurations. We
provide an analytical connection between the fraction of contrained degrees of
freedom within the system and the disorder-order phase transition for a class
of target structure factors by examining the realizability of the constrained
contribution to the pair correlation function. Our results explicitly
demonstrate that disordered hyperuniform many-particle ground states, and
therefore also point distributions, with substantial clustering can be
constructed. We directly relate the local coordination structure of our point
patterns to the distribution of the void space external to the particles, and
we provide a scaling argument for the configurational entropy of the systems
when only a small fraction of the degrees of freedom are constrained. By
emphasizing the intimate connection between geometrical constraints on the
particle distribution and structural regularity, our work has direct
implications for higher-dimensional systems, including an understanding of the
appearance of hyperuniformity and quasi-long-range pair correlations in
maximally random strictly jammed packings of hard spheres.