Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) is a multi-user version
of the Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) transmission
technique, which divides a wideband channel into a number of orthogonal
narrowband subchannels, called subcarriers. An OFDMA system takes advantage of
both frequency diversity (FD) gain and frequency-selective scheduling (FSS)
gain. A FD gain is achieved by allocating a user the subcarriers distributed
over the entire frequency band whereas a FSS gain is achieved by allocating a
user adjacent subcarriers located within a subband of a small bandwidth having
the most favorable channel conditions among other subbands in the entire
frequency band. Multi-User Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) is a
promising technology to increase spectral efficiency. A well-known MU-MIMO mode
is Space-Division Multiple Access (SDMA) which can be used in the downlink
direction to allow a group of spatially separable users to share the same
time/frequency resources. In this paper, we study the gain from FSS in
SDMA-OFDMA systems using the example of WiMAX. Therefore, a complete SDMA-OFDMA
MAC scheduling solution supporting both FD and FSS is proposed. The proposed
solution is analyzed in a typical urban macro-cell scenario by means of
system-level packet-based simulations, with detailed MAC and physical layer
abstractions. By explicitly simulating the MAC layer overhead (MAP) which is
required to signal every packed data burst in the OFDMA frame we can present
the overall performance to be expected at the MAC layer. Our results show that
in general the gain from FSS when applying SDMA is low. However, under specific
conditions, small number of BS antennas or large channel bandwidth, a
significant gain can be achieved from FSS.