We consider Horava gravity within the framework of the EFT of dark energy and
modified gravity. We work out a complete mapping of the theory into the EFT
language for an action including all the operators which are relevant for
linear perturbations with up to sixth order spatial derivatives. We then employ
an updated version of the EFTCAMB/EFTCosmoMC package to study the cosmology of
the low-energy limit of Horava gravity and place constraints on its parameters
using several cosmological data sets. In particular we consider two cases: the
first in which the three parameters of the low-energy theory are all varied and
a second case that is tuned to evade PPN constraints, reducing the number of
free parameters to two. We employ data sets which include the CMB TT and
lensing power spectra by Planck 2013, WMAP low-l polarization spectra, the
WiggleZ galaxy power spectrum, the local Hubble measurements, Supernovae data
from SNLS, SDSS and HST and the BAO measurements from BOSS, SDSS and 6dFGS. For
both cases we estimate the deviation of the cosmological gravitational constant
from the local Newtonian one, getting improved upper bounds with respect to the
previous ones from BBN data. At the level of the background, we find a relevant
rescaling of the Hubble rate at all epoch, which has a strong impact on the
cosmological observables; at the level of perturbations, we discuss all the
relevant effects that the modifications of gravity induce, ranging from
modifications of the late time ISW effect, the growth of matter perturbations,
gravitational lensing and differences in the B-modes of the CMB. In general the
quasi-static approximation is not safe to describe the evolution of
perturbations in Horava gravity. Overall we find that the effects of the
modifications induced by the low-energy Horava gravity action are quite
dramatic and current data place tight bounds on the theory parameters.