With the recently published Cosmic Microwave Background data from Planck we
address the optimized binning of the primordial power spectrum. As an important
modification to the usual binning of the primordial spectrum, along with the
spectral amplitude of the bins, we allow the position of the bins also to vary.
This technique enables us to address the location of the possible broad
physical features in the primordial spectrum with relatively smaller number of
bins compared to the analysis performed earlier. This approach is in fact a
reconstruction method looking for broad features in the primordial spectrum and
avoiding fitting noise in the data. Performing Markov Chain Monte Carlo
analysis we present samples of the allowed primordial spectra with broad
features consistent with Planck data. To test how realistic it is to have
step-like features in primordial spectrum we revisit an inflationary model,
proposed by A. A. Starobinsky which can address the similar features obtained
from the binning of the spectrum. Using the publicly available code BINGO, we
numerically calculate the local $f_{\rm NL}$ for this model in equilateral and
arbitrary triangular configurations of wavevectors and show that the obtained
non-Gaussianity for this model is consistent with Planck results. In this paper
we have also considered different spectral tilts at different bins to identify
the cosmological scale that the spectral index needs to have a red tilt and it
is interesting to report that spectral index cannot be well constrained up to
$k \sim 0.01~ {\rm Mpc}^{-1}$.