Dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxies are prime targets for present and future
gamma-ray telescopes hunting for indirect signals of particle dark matter. The
interpretation of the data requires careful assessment of their dark matter
content in order to derive robust constraints on candidate relic particles.
Here, we use an optimised spherical Jeans analysis to reconstruct the
`astrophysical factor' for both annihilating and decaying dark matter in 21
known dSphs. Improvements with respect to previous works are: (i) the use of
more flexible luminosity and anisotropy profiles to minimise biases, (ii) the
use of weak priors tailored on extensive sets of contamination-free mock data
to improve the confidence intervals, (iii) systematic cross-checks of binned
and unbinned analyses on mock and real data, and (iv) the use of mock data
including stellar contamination to test the impact on reconstructed signals.
Our analysis provides updated values for the dark matter content of 8
`classical' and 13 `ultrafaint' dSphs, with the quoted uncertainties directly
linked to the sample size; the more flexible parametrisation we use results in
changes compared to previous calculations. This translates into our ranking of
potentially-brightest and most robust targets---viz., Ursa Minor, Draco,
Sculptor---, and of the more promising, but uncertain targets---viz., Ursa
Major 2, Coma---for annihilating dark matter. Our analysis of Segue 1 is
extremely sensitive to whether we include or exclude a few marginal member
stars, making this target one of the most uncertain. Our analysis illustrates
challenges that will need to be addressed when inferring the dark matter
content of new `ultrafaint' satellites that are beginning to be discovered in
southern sky surveys.