Given a set of objects with durations (jobs) that cover a base region, can we
schedule the jobs to maximize the duration the original region remains covered?
We call this problem the sensor cover problem. This problem arises in the
context of covering a region with sensors. For example, suppose you wish to
monitor activity along a fence by sensors placed at various fixed locations.
Each sensor has a range and limited battery life. The problem is to schedule
when to turn on the sensors so that the fence is fully monitored for as long as
possible. This one dimensional problem involves intervals on the real line.
Associating a duration to each yields a set of rectangles in space and time,
each specified by a pair of fixed horizontal endpoints and a height. The
objective is to assign a position to each rectangle to maximize the height at
which the spanning interval is fully covered. We call this one dimensional
problem restricted strip covering. If we replace the covering constraint by a
packing constraint, the problem is identical to dynamic storage allocation, a
scheduling problem that is a restricted case of the strip packing problem. We
show that the restricted strip covering problem is NP-hard and present an O(log
log n)-approximation algorithm. We present better approximations or exact
algorithms for some special cases. For the uniform-duration case of restricted
strip covering we give a polynomial-time, exact algorithm but prove that the
uniform-duration case for higher-dimensional regions is NP-hard. Finally, we
consider regions that are arbitrary sets, and we present an O(log
n)-approximation algorithm.