We use kinematical and chemical properties of 754 Corot stars to characterise
the stellar populations of the Milky Way disc in three beams close the Galactic
plane. From the atmospheric parameters derived in Gazzano et al. (2010) with
the Matisse algorithm, we derived stellar distances using isochrones. Combining
these data with proper motions, we provide the complete kinematical description
of stars in three Corot fields. Finally, we used kinematical criteria to
identify the Galactic populations in our sample and study their
characteristics, particularly their chemistry. Comparing our kinematics with
the Besancon Galactic model, we show that, within 3-sigma, simulated and
observed kinematical distributions are in good agreement. We study the
characteristics of the thin disc, finding a correlation that is significant at
a value of 2-sigma between the V-velocity component and the metallicity for two
different radial distance bins (8-9kpc and 9-10kpc; but not for the most inner
bin 7-8kpc, probably because of the uncertainties in the abundances) which
could be interpreted as radial migration evidence. We also measured a radial
metallicity gradient value of -0.097+/-0.015dex/kpc with giant stars, and
-0.053+/-0.015dex/kpc with dwarfs. Finally, we identified metal-rich stars with
peculiar high [alpha/Fe] values in the directions pointing to the inner part of
the Galaxy. Applying the same methodology to the planet-hosting stars detected
by Corot shows that they mainly belong to the thin disc population with normal
chemical and kinematical properties.