The discovery of over 400 extrasolar planets allows us to statistically test
our understanding of formation and dynamics of planetary systems via numerical
simulations. Traditional N-body simulations of multiple-planet systems without
gas disks have successfully reproduced the eccentricity (e) distribution of the
observed systems, by assuming that the planetary systems are relatively closely
packed when the gas disk dissipates, so that they become dynamically unstable
within the stellar lifetime. However, such studies cannot explain the small
semi-major axes (a) of extrasolar planetary systems, if planets are formed, as
the standard planet formation theory suggests, beyond the ice line.
  In this paper, we numerically study the evolution of three-planet systems in
dissipating gas disks, and constrain the initial conditions that reproduce the
observed semi-major axis and eccentricity distributions simultaneously. We
adopt the initial conditions that are motivated by the standard planet
formation theory, and self-consistently simulate the disk evolution, and planet
migration by using a hybrid N-body and 1D gas disk code. We also take account
of eccentricity damping, and investigate the effect of saturation of corotation
resonances on the evolution of planetary systems. We find that the semi-major
axis distribution is largely determined in a gas disk, while the eccentricity
distribution is determined after the disk dissipation. We also find that there
may be an optimum disk mass which leads to the observed a-e distribution. Our
simulations generate a larger fraction of planetary systems trapped in
mean-motion resonances (MMRs) than the observations, indicating that the disk's
perturbation to the planetary orbits may be important to explain the observed
rate of MMRs. We also find much lower occurrence of planets on retrograde
orbits than the current observations of close-in planets suggest.