The sign and strength of magnetic interactions not only between nearest
neighbors, but also for longer-range neighbors in the Cr1/3NbS2 intercalation
compound have been calculated on the basis of structural data. It has been
found that left-handed spin helices in Cr1/3NbS2 are formed from
strength-dominant at low temperatures AFM interactions between triangular
planes of Cr3+ ions through the plane of just one of two crystallographically
equivalent diagonals of side faces of embedded into each other trigonal prisms
building up the crystal lattice of magnetic Cr3+ ions. These helices are
oriented along the c axis and packed into two-dimensional triangular lattices
in planes perpendicular to these helices directions and lay one upon each other
with a displacement. The competition of the above AFM helices with weaker
inter-helix AFM interactions could promote the emergence of a long-period
helical spin structure. One can assume that in this case the role of
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction cosists in final ordering and stabilization
of chiral spin helices into a chiral magnetic soliton lattice. The possibility
of emergence of solitons in M1/3NbX2 and M1/3TaX2 (M = d-elements; X = S and
Se) intercalate compounds has been examined. Two important factors caused by
the crystal structure (predominantnchiral magnetic helices and their
competition with weaker inter-helix interactions not destructing the system
quasi-one-dimensional character) can be used for the crystal chemistry search
of solitons.