Hyperuniform many-particle distributions possess a local number variance that
grows more slowly than the volume of an observation window, implying that the
local density is effectively homogeneous beyond a few characteristic length
scales. Previous work on maximally random strictly jammed sphere packings in
three dimensions has shown that these systems are hyperuniform and possess
unusual quasi-long-range pair correlations, resulting in anomalous logarithmic
growth in the number variance. However, recent work on maximally random jammed
sphere packings with a size distribution has suggested that such
quasi-long-range correlations and hyperuniformity are not universal among
jammed hard-particle systems. In this paper we show that such systems are
indeed hyperuniform with signature quasi-long-range correlations by
characterizing the more general local-volume-fraction fluctuations. We argue
that the regularity of the void space induced by the constraints of saturation
and strict jamming overcomes the local inhomogeneity of the disk centers to
induce hyperuniformity in the medium with a linear small-wavenumber nonanalytic
behavior in the spectral density, resulting in quasi-long-range spatial
correlations. A numerical and analytical analysis of the pore-size distribution
for a binary MRJ system in addition to a local characterization of the
n-particle loops governing the void space surrounding the inclusions is
presented in support of our argument. This paper is the first part of a series
of two papers considering the relationships among hyperuniformity, jamming, and
regularity of the void space in hard-particle packings.