This paper reports measurements of atmospheric neutrino and antineutrino
interactions in the MINOS Far Detector, based on 2553 live-days (37.9
kton-years) of data. A total of 2072 candidate events are observed. These are
separated into 905 contained-vertex muons and 466 neutrino-induced rock-muons,
both produced by charged-current $\nu_{\mu}$ and $\bar{\nu}_{\mu}$
interactions, and 701 contained-vertex showers, composed mainly of
charged-current $\nu_{e}$ and $\bar{\nu}_{e}$ interactions and neutral-current
interactions. The curvature of muon tracks in the magnetic field of the MINOS
Far Detector is used to select separate samples of $\nu_{\mu}$ and
$\bar{\nu}_{\mu}$ events. The observed ratio of $\bar{\nu}_{\mu}$ to
$\nu_{\mu}$ events is compared with the Monte Carlo simulation, giving a double
ratio of $R^{data}_{\bar{\nu}/\nu}/R^{MC}_{\bar{\nu}/\nu} = 1.03 \pm 0.08
(stat.) \pm 0.08 (syst.)$. The $\nu_{\mu}$ and $\bar{\nu}_{\mu}$ data are
separated into bins of $L/E$ resolution, based on the reconstructed energy and
direction of each event, and a maximum likelihood fit to the observed $L/E$
distributions is used to determine the atmospheric neutrino oscillation
parameters. This fit returns 90% confidence limits of $|\Delta m^{2}| = (1.9
\pm 0.4) \times 10^{-3} eV^{2}$ and $sin^{2} 2\theta > 0.86$. The fit is
extended to incorporate separate $\nu_{\mu}$ and $\bar{\nu}_{\mu}$ oscillation
parameters, returning 90% confidence limits of $|\Delta m^{2}|-|\Delta
\bar{m}^{2}| = 0.6^{+2.4}_{-0.8} \times 10^{-3} eV^{2}$ on the difference
between the squared-mass splittings for neutrinos and antineutrinos.