Most of super-Earths detected by the radial velocity (RV) method have
significantly smaller eccentricities than the eccentricities corresponding to
velocity dispersion equal to their surface escape velocity ("escape
eccentricities"). If orbital instability followed by giant impacts among
protoplanets that have migrated from outer region is considered, it is usually
considered that eccentricities of the merged bodies become comparable to those
of orbital crossing bodies, which are excited up to their escape eccentricities
by close scattering. However, the eccentricity evolution in the {\it in situ}
accretion model has not been studied in detail. Here, we investigate the
eccentricity evolution through {\it N}-body simulations. We have found that the
merged planets tend to have much smaller eccentricities than the escape
eccentricities due to very efficient collision damping. If the protoplanet
orbits are initially well separated and their eccentricities are securely
increased, an inner protoplanet collides at its apocenter with an outer
protoplanet at its pericenter. The eccentricity of the merged body is the
smallest for such configuration. Orbital inclinations are also damped by this
mechanism and planets tend to share a same orbital plane, which is consistent
with {\it Kepler} data. Such efficient collision damping is not found when we
start calculations from densely packed orbits of the protoplanets. If the
protoplanets are initially in the mean-motion resonances, which corresponds to
well separated orbits, the {\it in situ} accretion model well reproduces the
features of eccentricities and inclinations of multiple super-Earths/Earth
systems discovered by RV and {\it Kepler} surveys.