A service system with multiple types of customers, arriving according to
Poisson processes, is considered. The system is heterogeneous in that the
servers also can be of multiple types. Each customer has an independent
exponentially distributed service time, with the mean determined by its type.
Multiple customers (possibly of different types) can be placed for service into
one server, subject to "packing" constraints, which depend on the server type.
Service times of different customers are independent, even if served
simultaneously by the same server. Such a system models, for example, dynamic
real-time assignment of virtual machines to physical machines in a network
cloud, where typical objectives may be to minimize the number of occupied
(non-idle) hosts and/or to minimize blocking/waiting of virtual machines. We
consider two variants of the model, and two corresponding generalizations of
the {\em Greedy Random} (GRAND) algorithm, introduced for homogeneous (one
server type) systems in [15]. The large-scale asymptotic regime is considered
such that the customer arrival rates grow to infinity.
  For the infinite-server model, we prove asymptotic optimality of the
algorithm in the sense of minimizing the weighted (by type) number of occupied
servers in steady-state. For the finite-server system with blocking, under
subcritical load, we prove existence, uniqueness, and local stability of the
system equilibrium point (without blocking) for the fluid limit trajectories.
This in turn strongly suggests a conjecture that the steady-state blocking
probability under the algorithm vanishes in the large-scale limit.