The existence of galaxy intrinsic clustering severely hampers the weak
lensing reconstruction from cosmic magnification. In paper I \citep{Yang2011},
we proposed a minimal variance estimator to overcome this problem. By utilizing
the different dependences of cosmic magnification and galaxy intrinsic
clustering on galaxy flux, we demonstrated that the otherwise overwhelming
galaxy intrinsic clustering can be significantly suppressed such that lensing
maps can be reconstructed with promising accuracy. This procedure relies
heavily on the accuracy of determining the galaxy bias from the same data.
Paper I adopts an iterative approach, which degrades toward high redshift. The
current paper presents an alternative method, improving over paper I. We prove
that the measured galaxy clustering between flux bins allows for simultaneous
determination of the lensing power spectrum and the flux dependence of galaxy
bias, at this redshift bin. Comparing to paper I, the new approach is not only
more straightforward, but also more robust. It identifies an ambiguity in
determining the galaxy bias and further discovers a mathematically robust way
to suppress this ambiguity to non-negligible level ($\sim 0.1%$). The
accurately determined galaxy bias can then be applied to the minimal variance
estimator proposed in paper I to improve the lensing map-making. The gain at
high redshift is significant. These maps can be used to measure other
statistics, such as cluster finding and peak statistics. Furthermore, by
including galaxy clustering measurement between different redshift bins, we can
also determine the lensing cross power spectrum between these bins, up to a
small and correctable multiplicative factor.