We present a new diagnostic allowing one to measure the anisotropy of ion
temperatures and non-thermal velocities as well as Doppler shifts with respect
to the ambient magnetic field. This method provides new results, as well as
independent test for previous measurements obtained with other techniques. Our
spectral data come from observations of a low latitude, on-disk coronal hole. A
potential field source surface model was used to calculate the angle between
the magnetic field lines and the line of sight for each spatial bin of the
observation. A fit was performed to determine the line widths and Doppler
shifts parallel and perpendicular to the magnetic field. For each line width
component we derived parallel and perpendicular ion temperatures and
non-thermal velocities. The perpendicular ion temperature was cooler than
off-limb polar coronal hole measurements. The parallel ion temperature was
consistent with a uniform temperature of 1.8 +/- 0.2 x 10^{6} K for each ion.
Since parallel ion heating is expected to be weak, this ion temperature should
reflect the proton temperature. A comparison between our results and others
implies a large proton temperature gradient around 1.02 R_sun. The non-thermal
velocities are thought to be proportional to the amplitudes of various waves.
Our results for the perpendicular non-thermal velocity agree with Alfv\'en wave
amplitudes inferred from off-limb polar coronal hole line width measurements.
Our parallel non-thermal velocity results are consistent with slow magnetosonic
wave amplitudes inferred from Fourier analysis of time varying intensity
fluctuations. Doppler shift measurements yield outflows of ~5 km s^-1 for ions
formed over a broad temperature range. This differs from other studies which
found a strong Doppler shift dependence on formation temperature.