We have commenced a detailed analysis of the known sample of Galactic
post-asymptotic giant branch (PAGB) objects compiled in the Toru\'n catalogue
of Szczerba et al., and present, for the first time, homogeneously derived
distance determinations for the 209 likely and 87 possible catalogued PAGB
stars from that compilation. Knowing distances are essential in determining
meaningful physical characteristics for these sources and this has been
difficult to determine for most objects previously. The distances were
determined by modelling their spectral energy distributions (SED) with multiple
black-body curves, and integrating under the overall fit to determine the total
distance-dependent flux. This method works because the luminosity of these
central stars is very nearly constant from the tip of the AGB phase to the
beginning of the white-dwarf cooling track. This then enables us to use a
standard-candle luminosity to estimate the SED distances. For Galactic thin
disk PAGB objects, we use three luminosity bins based on typical observational
characteristics, ranging between 3500 and 12000 L_sun. We further adopt a
default luminosity of 1700 L_sun for all halo PAGB objects. We have also
applied the above technique to a further sample of 69 related nebulae not in
the current edition of the Toru\'n catalogue. In a follow-up paper we will
estimate distances to the subset of RV Tauri variables using empirical
period-luminosity relations, and to the R\,CrB stars, allowing a population
comparison of these objects with the other subclasses of PAGB stars for the
first time.