Aims: The massive twin cores NGC6334I and I(N) are in different evolutionary
stages and hence ideal targets to study evolutionary variations within the same
larger-scale environment. Here, we study the warm, compact gas components.
Methods: We imaged the two regions with the Australia Telescope Compact Array
(ATCA) at high angular resolution in the NH3(3,3) to (6,6) inversion lines.
Results: Compact emission is detected toward both regions in all observed
inversion lines with energy levels up to 407K above ground. This is
particularly surprising for NGC6334I(N) since it lacks bright infrared emission
and is considered a massive cold core at an early evolutionary stage. High
optical depth and multiply-peaked line profiles complicate rotation temperature
estimates, and we can only conclude that gas components with temperatures >100K
are present in both regions. Toward NGC6334I, we confirm previous reports of
NH3(3,3) maser emission toward the outflow bow-shocks. Furthermore, we report
the first detection of an NH3(6,6) maser toward the central region of NGC6334I.
This maser is centered on the second millimeter (mm) peak and elongated along
the outflow axis, indicating that this mm continuum core harbors the driving
source of the molecular outflow. Toward the main mm peak in NGC6334I(N), we
detect a double-horn line profile in the NH3(6,6) transition. The current data
do not allow us to differentiate whether this double-horn profile is produced
by multiple gas components along the line of sight, or whether it may trace a
potential underlying massive accretion disk. The data to Figures 3 to 7 are
also available in electronic form at the CDS via anonymous ftp to
cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr (130.79.128.5) or via
http://cdsweb.u-strasbg.fr/cgi-bin/qcat?J/A+A/.