We update the previous analysis of correlation between ultra-high energy
cosmic rays (UHECR) and active galactic nuclei (AGN), using 69 UHECR events
with energy $E\ge55\,{\rm EeV}$ released in 2010 by Pierre Auger observatory
and 862 AGN within the distance $d\le100\,{\rm Mpc}$ listed in the 13th edition
of V\'eron-Cetty and V\'eron AGN catalog. To make the test hypothesis definite,
we use the simple AGN source model in which UHECR are originated both from AGN,
with the fraction $f_A$, and from the isotropic background. We treat all AGN as
equal sources of UHECR, and introduce the smearing angle $\theta_s$ to
incorporate the effects of intervening magnetic fields. We compare the arrival
direction distributions observed by PAO and expected from the model by the
correlational angular distance distribution (CADD) method. CADD method rules
out the AGN dominance model with a small smearing angle ($f_A\gtrsim0.7$ and
$\theta_s\lesssim6^\circ$). Concerning the isotropy, CADD shows that the
distribution of PAO data is marginally consistent with isotropy. The best fit
model lies around the AGN fraction $f_A=0.4$ and the moderate smearing angle
$\theta_s=10^\circ$. For the fiducial value $f_A=0.7$, the best probability of
CADD was obtained at a rather large smearing angle $\theta_{\rm s}=46^\circ$.
Our results imply that for the whole AGN to be viable sources of UHECR, either
an appreciable amount of additional isotropic background or the large smearing
effect is required. Thus, we try to bin the distance range of AGN to narrow
down the UHECR sources and found that the AGN residing in the distance range
$60-80\,{\rm Mpc}$ have good correlation with the updated PAO data. It is an
indication that further study on the subclass of AGN as the UHECR source may be
quite interesting.