Starting from an unjammed initial state, applying shear to a granular
material of a fixed packing fraction below $\phi_J$, i.e. the isotropic jamming
density of frictionless spheres can produce shear jamming states, as have been
discovered recently. In addition, it has also been discovered that the system
will first experience a bulk fragile state before evolving into a shear jammed
state. Due to the existence of friction between the system and the third
dimension in the previous studies, it is unclear whether such fragile state
would still exist on the route to shear jamming if the friction with the third
dimension were completely eliminated and the background noise level were
greatly reduced. Using a novel apparatus, we have completely eliminated the
friction between particles and the third dimension by floating the particles on
the surface of a shallow water layer thus revealing more details of the route
of shear-jamming. We are able to measure weak boundary pressure of three orders
of magnitude below the resolution of the photo-elastic method through the
combination force-gauges of high sensitivity and a cantilever-like simple-beam
apparatus. In a system with weak cohesion, we have indeed observed the bulk
fragile states before the shear jamming; in addition, we have also discovered
the boundary fragile states and regimes of negligible shear modus compared to
bulk modulus. Most importantly, we now have a much better understanding of the
bulk fragile state: its existence requires an auxiliary in some form, e.g. the
weak cohesion in this experiment. By constructing a way to freely tune down the
cohesion to more than six orders of magnitude smaller, to our surprise, we have
discovered the complete vanishing of the bulk fragile states, which thus allows
us to determine the plausible origin of the bulk fragile state.