A physical interpretation of the mathematical consequence of Lorentz
transformation within spatial relativity theory is presented as a result of my
new physical model of existent fluctuating vacuum (FlcVcm). It is assumed that
the FlcVcm is considered as a molecular dielectric, which consists from neutral
dynamides, streamlined in a close-packed crystalline lattice. Every dynamide is
a neutral pair, consistent by two massless opposite point-like elementary
electric charges (ElmElcChrgs): electrino (-) and positrino (+). In a frozen
equilibrium position two contrary pont-like ElmElcChrgs within every one
dynamide are very closely installed one to another and therefore the aggregate
polarization of every dynamide and its electric field also have zero values.
The aggregate electric field of every dynamide polarizes nearest neighbors
dynamides in an account of which nearest dynamides interact between them-self,
because of which their elementary excitations, phonons and photons, have a wave
character and behaviors. We suppose that the photon is an polarization result
of the phonon within the fluctuating vacuum considered as an ideal dielectric
and therefore the photon could be considered as an elementary collective
excitation of the FlcVcm in the form of a solitary needle cylindrical harmonic
oscillation. Hence the light, which is a packet of the photons, must move
within FlcVcm with constant velocity and Dopler effect must be observed in both
cases, for the light and sound. Then all mathematical results of Lorentz
transformation could be considered as results of a demand of an independence of
the observation results from the reactive velocity of the observation frame.