This paper studies the problem of reconstructing sparse or compressible
signals from compressed sensing measurements that have undergone nonuniform
quantization. Previous approaches to this Quantized Compressed Sensing (QCS)
problem based on Gaussian models (bounded l2-norm) for the quantization
distortion yield results that, while often acceptable, may not be fully
consistent: re-measurement and quantization of the reconstructed signal do not
necessarily match the initial observations. Quantization distortion instead
more closely resembles heteroscedastic uniform noise, with variance depending
on the observed quantization bin. Generalizing our previous work on uniform
quantization, we show that for nonuniform quantizers described by the
"compander" formalism, quantization distortion may be better characterized as
having bounded weighted lp-norm (p >= 2), for a particular weighting. We
develop a new reconstruction approach, termed Generalized Basis Pursuit DeNoise
(GBPDN), which minimizes the sparsity of the reconstructed signal under this
weighted lp-norm fidelity constraint. We prove that for B bits per measurement
and under the oversampled QCS scenario (when the number of measurements is
large compared to the signal sparsity) if the sensing matrix satisfies a
proposed generalized Restricted Isometry Property, then, GBPDN provides a
reconstruction error of sparse signals which decreases like
O(2^{-B}/\sqrt{p+1}): a reduction by a factor \sqrt{p+1} relative to that
produced by using the l2-norm. Besides the QCS scenario, we also show that
GBPDN applies straightforwardly to the related case of CS measurements
corrupted by heteroscedastic Generalized Gaussian noise with provable
reconstruction error reduction. Finally, we describe an efficient numerical
procedure for computing GBPDN via a primal-dual convex optimization scheme, and
demonstrate its effectiveness through simulations.