A new compound with the FeAs-layers, namely (Sr_3Sc_2O_5)Fe_2As_2
(abbreviated as FeAs-32522), was successfully fabricated. It has a layered
structure with the space group of I4/mmm, and with the lattice constants a =
4.069 $\AA$ and c = 26.876 $\AA$. The in-plane Fe ions construct a square
lattice which is close to that of other FeAs-based superconductors, such as
REFeAsO (RE = rare earth elements) and (Ba,Sr)Fe_2As_2. However the inter
FeAs-layer spacing in the new compound is greatly enlarged. The temperature
dependence of resistivity exhibits a weak upturn in the low temperature region,
but a metallic behavior was observed above about 60 K. The magnetic
susceptibility shows also a non-monotonic behavior. Interestingly, the
well-known resistivity anomaly which was discovered in all other parent
compounds, such as REFeAsO, (Ba,Sr)Fe_2As_2 and (Sr,Ca,Eu)FeAsF and associated
with the Spin-Density-Wave (SDW)/structural transition has not been found in
the new system either on the resistivity data or the magnetization data. This
could be induced by the large spacing distance between the FeAs-planes,
therefore the antiferromagnetic correlation between the moments of Fe ions in
neighboring FeAs-layers cannot be established. Alternatively it can also be
attributed to the self-doping effect between Fe and Sc ions. The Hall
coefficient R_H is negative but strongly temperature dependent in wide
temperature region, which indicates the dominance of electrical conduction by
electron-like charge carriers and probably a multi-band effect or a spin
related scattering effect. It is found that the magnetoresistance cannot be
described by the Kohler's rule, which gives further support to above arguments.