We examine the network of forces to be expected in a static assembly of hard,
frictionless spherical beads of random sizes, such as a colloidal glass. Such
an assembly is minimally connected: the ratio of constraint equations to
contact forces approaches unity for a large assembly. However, the bead
positions in a finite subregion of the assembly are underdetermined. Thus to
maintain equilibrium, half of the exterior contact forces are determined by the
other half. We argue that the transmission of force may be regarded as
unidirectional, in contrast to the transmission of force in an elastic
material. Specializing to sequentially deposited beads, we show that forces on
a given buried bead can be uniquely specified in terms of forces involving more
recently added beads. We derive equations for the transmission of stress
averaged over scales much larger than a single bead. This derivation requires
the Ansatz that statistical fluctuations of the forces are independent of
fluctuations of the contact geometry. Under this Ansatz, the
$d(d+1)/2$-component stress field can be expressed in terms of a d-component
vector field. The procedure may be generalized to non-sequential packings. In
two dimensions, the stress propagates according to a wave equation, as
postulated in recent work elsewhere. We demonstrate similar wave-like
propagation in higher dimensions, assuming that the packing geometry has
uniaxial symmetry. In macroscopic granular materials we argue that our approach
may be useful even though grains have friction and are not packed
sequentially.=17