We report high precision charged-particle pair (2-D) correlation analyses in
the space of $\Delta \phi$ (azimuth) and $\Delta \eta$ (pseudorapidity), for
minimum bias Au + Au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}$ = 200 GeV as a function of
centrality (0-80%). The intermediate transverse momenta region chosen $0.8 <
p_t < 4.0$ GeV/c corresponds to an emission source size $\sim2$fm obtained from
HBT measurements and should resolve substructures at the scale of $\sim2$fm.
The difference and the sum of unlike-sign and like-sign charged pairs form
Charge Dependent (CD) correlations and Charge Independent (CI) correlations
respectively. The CD displays the initial correlation at hadronization of the
opposite sign pairs emitted from the same space-time region as modified by
further medium interactions before kinetic freeze-out. Our analysis of the CD
correlations shows approximately jet-like structure, independent of centrality
and is consistent with the initial correlation which is predicted by Pythia (or
HIJING) jets. The CI correlation displays the average structure of the
correlated emitting sources after kinetic freeze-out. For the most central
bins, the $\Delta \eta$ width of the CI correlation on the near side ($\Delta
\phi$ around $0^\circ$) is elongated by a factor $\sim$3 destroying the
jet-like symmetry. This elongation decreases continually with decreasing
centrality and essentially restores the jet-like symmetric structure in the
most peripheral bins. The Pythia and HIJING event generators together with a
QCD inspired Parton Bubble Model (PBM), which motivated this analysis, are used
to compare to our data. We discuss the arguments for substructure, surface
emission, and opacity in the central fireball region.