Biomedical studies have a common interest in assessing relationships between
multiple related health outcomes and high-dimensional predictors. For example,
in reproductive epidemiology, one may collect pregnancy outcomes such as length
of gestation and birth weight and predictors such as single nucleotide
polymorphisms in multiple candidate genes and environmental exposures. In such
settings, there is a need for simple yet flexible methods for selecting true
predictors of adverse health responses from a high-dimensional set of candidate
predictors. To address this problem, one may either consider linear regression
models for the continuous outcomes or convert these outcomes into binary
indicators of adverse responses using pre-defined cutoffs. The former strategy
has the disadvantage of often leading to a poorly fitting model that does not
predict risk well, while the latter approach can be very sensitive to the
cutoff choice. As a simple yet flexible alternative, we propose a method for
adverse subpopulation regression (ASPR), which relies on a two component latent
class model, with the dominant component corresponding to (presumed) healthy
individuals and the risk of falling in the minority component characterized via
a logistic regression. The logistic regression model is designed to accommodate
high-dimensional predictors, as occur in studies with a large number of gene by
environment interactions, through use of a flexible nonparametric multiple
shrinkage approach. The Gibbs sampler is developed for posterior computation.
The methods are evaluated using simulation studies and applied to a genetic
epidemiology study of pregnancy outcomes.