The surprising recent discoveries of quasicrystals and their approximants in
soft matter systems poses the intriguing possibility that these structures can
be realized in a broad range of nano- and micro-scale assemblies. It has been
theorized that soft matter quasicrystals and approximants are largely
entropically stabilized, but the thermodynamic mechanism underlying their
formation remains elusive. Here, we use computer simulation and free energy
calculations to demonstrate a simple design heuristic for assembling
quasicrystals and approximants in soft matter systems. Our study builds on
previous simulation studies of the self-assembly of dodecagonal quasicrystals
and approximants in minimal systems of spherical particles with complex,
highly-specific interaction potentials. We demonstrate an alternative
entropy-based approach for assembling dodecagonal quasicrystals and
approximants based solely on particle functionalization and shape, thereby
recasting the interaction-potential-based assembly strategy in terms of
simpler-to-achieve bonded and excluded-volume interactions. Here, spherical
building blocks are functionalized with mobile surface entities to encourage
the formation of structures with low surface contact area, including
non-close-packed and polytetrahedral structures. The building blocks also
possess shape polydispersity, where a subset of the building blocks deviate
from the ideal spherical shape, discouraging the formation of close-packed
crystals. We show that three different model systems with both of these
features -- mobile surface entities and shape polydispersity -- consistently
assemble quasicrystals and/or approximants. We argue that this design strategy
can be widely exploited to assemble quasicrystals and approximants on the nano-
and micro- scales. In addition, our results further elucidate the formation of
soft matter quasicrystals in experiment.