We investigate the environmental dependence of galaxies with star formation
from a volume-limited sample of 4782 nearby field galaxy spectra extracted from
the 2dF Galaxy Redshift Survey final data release. The environment is
characterized by the local spatial density of galaxies, estimated from the
distance to the 5th nearest neighbour. Extensive simulations have been made to
estimate correction factors for the local density due to sample incompleteness.
We discriminate the galaxies in distinct spectral classes -- passive,
star-forming, and short starburst galaxies -- by the use of the equivalent
widths of [{\sc O ii}]$\lambda$3727 and H$\delta$. The frequency of galaxies of
different classes are then evaluated as a function of the environment. We show
that the fraction of star-forming galaxies decreases with increasing density,
whereas passive galaxies present the opposite behaviour. The fraction of short
starburst galaxies -- that suffered a starburst at $\sim$ 200 Myr ago -- do not
present strong environmental dependence. The fraction of this class of galaxies
is also approximately constant with galaxy luminosity, except for the faintest
bins in the sample, where their fraction seems to increase. We find that the
star-formation properties are affected in all range of densities present in our
sample (that excludes clusters), what supports the idea that star-formation in
galaxies is affected by the environment everywhere. We suggest that mechanisms
like tidal interactions, which act in all environments, do play a relevant role
on the star-formation in galaxies.