Although redshift-space distortions only affect inferred distances and not
angles, they still distort the projected angular clustering of galaxy samples
selected using redshift dependent quantities. From an Eulerian view-point, this
effect is caused by the apparent movement of galaxies into or out of the
sample. From a Lagrangian view-point, we find that projecting the
redshift-space overdensity field over a finite radial distance does not remove
all the anisotropic distortions. We investigate this effect, showing that it
strongly boosts the amplitude of clustering for narrow samples and can also
reduce the significance of baryonic features in the correlation function. We
argue that the effect can be mitigated by binning in apparent galaxy
pair-centre rather than galaxy position, and applying an upper limit to the
radial galaxy separation. We demonstrate this approach, contrasting against
standard top-hat binning in galaxy distance, using sub-samples taken from the
Hubble Volume simulations. Using a simple model for the radial distribution
expected for galaxies from a survey such as the Dark Energy Survey (DES), we
show that this binning scheme will simplify analyses that will measure baryon
acoustic oscillations within such galaxy samples. Comparing results from
different binning schemes has the potential to provide measurements of the
amplitude of the redshift-space distortions. Our analysis is relevant for other
photometric redshift surveys, including those made by the Panoramic Survey
Telescope & Rapid Response System (Pan-Starrs) and the Large Synoptic Survey
Telescope (LSST).