As part of the Deep Extragalactic Evolutionary Probe (DEEP) survey, a sample
of 190 field galaxies (I_{814} <= 23.5) in the ``Groth Survey Strip'' has been
used to analyze the magnitude-size relation over the range 0.1 < z < 1.1. The
survey is statistically complete to this magnitude limit. All galaxies have
photometric structural parameters, including bulge fractions (B/T), from Hubble
Space Telescope images, and spectroscopic redshifts from the Keck Telescope.
The analysis includes a determination of the survey selection function in the
magnitude-size plane as a function of redshift, which mainly drops faint
galaxies at large distances. Our results suggest that selection effects play a
very important role. A first analysis treats disk-dominated galaxies with B/T <
0.5. If selection effects are ignored, the mean disk surface brightness
(averaged over all galaxies) increases by ~1.3 mag from z = 0.1 to 0.9.
However, most of this change is plausibly due to comparing low luminosity
galaxies in nearby redshift bins to high luminosity galaxies in distant bins.
If this effect is allowed for, no discernible evolution remains in the disk
surface brightness of bright (M_B < -19) disk-dominated galaxies. A second
analysis treats all galaxies by substituting half-light radius for disk scale
length, with similar conclusions. Indeed, at all redshifts, the bulk of
galaxies is consistent with the magnitude-size envelope of local galaxies,
i.e., with little or no evolution in surface brightness. In the two highest
redshift bins (z > 0.7), a handful of luminous, high surface brightness
galaxies appears that occupies a region of the magnitude-size plane rarely
populated by local galaxies. Their wide range of colors and bulge fractions
points to a variety of possible origins.