We quantify the fraction of the cosmic infrared background (CIB) that
originates from galaxies identified in the UV/optical/near-infrared by stacking
81,250 (~35.7 arcmin^2) K-selected sources (K_AB < 24.0), split according to
their rest-frame U - V vs. V - J colors into 72,216 star-forming and 9,034
quiescent galaxies, on maps from Spitzer/MIPS (24um), Herschel/SPIRE (250, 350,
500um), Herschel/PACS (100, 160um), and AzTEC (1100um). The fraction of the CIB
resolved by our catalog is (69 $\pm$ 15)% at 24um, (78 $\pm$ 17)% at 70um, (58
$\pm$ 13)% at 100um, (78 $\pm$ 18)% at 160um, (80 $\pm$ 17)% at 250um, (69
$\pm$ 14)% at 350um, (65 $\pm$ 12)% at 500um, and (45 $\pm$ 8)% at 1100um. Of
that total, about 95% originates from star-forming galaxies, while the
remaining 5% is from apparently quiescent galaxies. The CIB at $\lambda$ <
200um is sourced predominantly from galaxies at z < 1, while at $\lambda$ >
200um the bulk originates from 1 < z < 2. Galaxies with stellar masses log(M/
M_sun)=9.5-11 are responsible for the majority of the CIB, with those in the
log(M/ M_sun)=9.5-10 contributing mostly at $\lambda$ < 250um, and those in the
log(M/ M_sun)=10.5-11 bin dominating at $\lambda$ > 350um. The contribution
from galaxies in the log(M/ M_sun)=9.0-9.5 and log(M/ M_sun)=11.0-12.0 stellar
mass bins contribute the least, both of order 5%, although the highest
stellar-mass bin is a significant contributor to the luminosity density at z >
2. The luminosities of the galaxies responsible for the CIB shifts from a
combination of "normal" and luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs) at $\lambda$ <
160um, to LIRGs at 160um < $\lambda$ < 500um, to finally LIRGs and
ultra-luminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) at $\lambda$ > 500um. Stacking
analyses were performed with SIMSTACK (available at
http://www.astro.caltech.edu/~viero/viero_homepage/toolbox.html) which accounts
for possible biases due to clustering.