Biological networks display a variety of activity patterns reflecting a web
of interactions that is complex both in space and time. Yet inference methods
have mainly focused on reconstructing, from the network's activity, the spatial
structure, by assuming equilibrium conditions or, more recently, a
probabilistic dynamics with a single arbitrary time-step. Here we show that,
under this latter assumption, the inference procedure fails to reconstruct the
synaptic matrix of a network of integrate-and-fire neurons when the chosen time
scale of interaction does not closely match the synaptic delay or when no
single time scale for the interaction can be identified; such failure,
moreover, exposes a distinctive bias of the inference method that can lead to
infer as inhibitory the excitatory synapses with interaction time scales longer
than the model's time-step. We therefore introduce a new two-step method, that
first infers through cross-correlation profiles the delay-structure of the
network and then reconstructs the synaptic matrix, and successfully test it on
networks with different topologies and in different activity regimes. Although
step one is able to accurately recover the delay-structure of the network, thus
getting rid of any \textit{a priori} guess about the time scales of the
interaction, the inference method introduces nonetheless an arbitrary time
scale, the time-bin $dt$ used to binarize the spike trains. We therefore
analytically and numerically study how the choice of $dt$ affects the inference
in our network model, finding that the relationship between the inferred
couplings and the real synaptic efficacies, albeit being quadratic in both
cases, depends critically on $dt$ for the excitatory synapses only, whilst
being basically independent of it for the inhibitory ones.