We study the shapes of Milky Way satellites in the context of the tidal
stirring scenario for the formation of dwarf spheroidal galaxies. The standard
procedures used to measure shapes involve smoothing and binning of data and
thus may not be sufficient to detect structural properties like bars, which are
usually subtle in low surface brightness systems. Taking advantage of the fact
that in nearby dwarfs photometry of individual stars is available we introduce
discrete measures of shape based on the two-dimensional inertia tensor and the
Fourier bar mode. We apply these measures of shape first to a variety of
simulated dwarf galaxies formed via tidal stirring of disks embedded in dark
matter halos and orbiting the Milky Way. In addition to strong mass loss and
randomization of stellar orbits, the disks undergo morphological transformation
that typically involves the formation of a triaxial bar after the first
pericenter passage. These tidally induced bars persist for a few Gyr before
being shortened towards a more spherical shape if the tidal force is strong
enough. We test this prediction by measuring in a similar way the shape of
nearby dwarf galaxies, satellites of the Milky Way. We detect inner bars in
Ursa Minor, Sagittarius, LMC and possibly Carina. In addition, six out of
eleven studied dwarfs show elongated stellar distributions in the outer parts
that may signify transition to tidal tails. We thus find the shapes of Milky
Way satellites to be consistent with the predictions of the tidal stirring
model.