Telescopes aiming to measure 21cm emission from the Epoch of Reionization
must toe a careful line, balancing the need for raw sensitivity against the
stringent calibration requirements for removing bright foregrounds. It is
unclear what the optimal design is for achieving both of these goals. Via a
pedagogical derivation of an interferometer's response to the power spectrum of
21cm reionization fluctuations, we show that even under optimistic scenarios,
first-generation arrays will yield low-SNR detections, and that different
compact array configurations can substantially alter sensitivity. We explore
the sensitivity gains of array configurations that yield high redundancy in the
uv-plane -- configurations that have been largely ignored since the advent of
self-calibration for high-dynamic-range imaging. We first introduce a
mathematical framework to generate optimal minimum-redundancy configurations
for imaging. We contrast the sensitivity of such configurations with
high-redundancy configurations, finding that high-redundancy configurations can
improve power-spectrum sensitivity by more than an order of magnitude. We
explore how high-redundancy array configurations can be tuned to various
angular scales, enabling array sensitivity to be directed away from regions of
the uv-plane (such as the origin) where foregrounds are brighter and where
instrumental systematics are more problematic. We demonstrate that a
132-antenna deployment of the Precision Array for Probing the Epoch of
Reionization (PAPER) observing for 120 days in a high-redundancy configuration
will, under ideal conditions, have the requisite sensitivity to detect the
power spectrum of the 21cm signal from reionization at a 3\sigma level at
k<0.25h Mpc^{-1} in a bin of \Delta ln k=1. We discuss the tradeoffs of low-
versus high-redundancy configurations.