We study the clustering of galaxies detected at $i<22.5$ in the Science
Verification observations of the Dark Energy Survey (DES). Two-point
correlation functions are measured using $2.3\times 10^6$ galaxies over a
contiguous 116 deg$^2$ region in five bins of photometric redshift width
$\Delta z = 0.2$ in the range $0.2 < z < 1.2.$ The impact of photometric
redshift errors are assessed by comparing results using a template-based
photo-$z$ algorithm (BPZ) to a machine-learning algorithm (TPZ). A companion
paper (Leistedt et al 2015) presents maps of several observational variables
(e.g. seeing, sky brightness) which could modulate the galaxy density. Here we
characterize and mitigate systematic errors on the measured clustering which
arise from these observational variables, in addition to others such as
Galactic dust and stellar contamination. After correcting for systematic
effects we measure galaxy bias over a broad range of linear scales relative to
mass clustering predicted from the Planck $\Lambda$CDM model, finding agreement
with CFHTLS measurements with $\chi^2$ of 4.0 (8.7) with 5 degrees of freedom
for the TPZ (BPZ) redshifts. We test a "linear bias" model, in which the galaxy
clustering is a fixed multiple of the predicted non-linear dark-matter
clustering. The precision of the data allow us to determine that the linear
bias model describes the observed galaxy clustering to $2.5\%$ accuracy down to
scales at least $4$ to $10$ times smaller than those on which linear theory is
expected to be sufficient.