We present a numerical study of the statistical properties of the potential
energy landscape of a simple model for strong network-forming liquids. The
model is a system of spherical particles interacting through a square well
potential, with an additional constraint that limits the maximum number of
bonds, $N_{\rm max}$, per particle. Extensive simulations have been carried out
as a function of temperature, packing fraction, and $N_{\rm max}$. The dynamics
of this model are characterized by Arrhenius temperature dependence of the
transport coefficients and by nearly exponential relaxation of dynamic
correlators, i.e. features defining strong glass-forming liquids. This model
has two important features: (i) landscape basins can be associated with bonding
patterns; (ii) the configurational volume of the basin can be evaluated in a
formally exact way, and numerically with arbitrary precision. These features
allow us to evaluate the number of different topologies the bonding pattern can
adopt. We find that the number of fully bonded configurations, i.e.
configurations in which all particles are bonded to $N_{\rm max}$ neighbors, is
extensive, suggesting that the configurational entropy of the low temperature
fluid is finite. We also evaluate the energy dependence of the configurational
entropy close to the fully bonded state, and show that it follows a logarithmic
functional form, differently from the quadratic dependence characterizing
fragile liquids. We suggest that the presence of a discrete energy scale,
provided by the particle bonds, and the intrinsic degeneracy of fully bonded
disordered networks differentiates strong from fragile behavior.