We present broadband properties of sources in the Chandra Deep Field-North
with spectroscopic redshifts. The high luminosity and redshift bins are
dominated by typical quasars. The intermediate redshift (z = 0.7-1.5) and
luminosity ranges (L(0.5-8.0keV) = 10^(42.5-43.5) erg/s) show a mix of
different source types, with the absorbed objects in the majority. At the faint
flux limit of the CDF-N, a substantial fraction of the sources are identified
as star-forming galaxies. The AGN in the sample can be divided into four
classes based on their rest frame SEDs: luminous, unabsorbed QSOs; objects with
reddened optical spectra and X-ray absorption; X-ray absorbed AGN with no signs
of reddening in the optical spectra; and optically reddened sources with X-ray
spectra indicative of obscuration. We argue that the AGN of higher luminosity
tend to have a lower X-ray absorbing column density, but the ratio of X-ray
absorbed to unabsorbed AGN remains constant with redshift. We find that the
relations between UV and X-ray luminosities derived by Strateva et al. (2005)
and Steffen et al.(2006) only hold for bright sources, and break down when
faint objects in the sample are included.This is only partly owing to the fact
that the majority of the faint sources are absorbed; several faint sources must
also have intrinsically lower X-ray luminosity. A fit to the NIR-optical-UV
broadband SEDs of the AGN allows us to constrain the absorption parameters
independently from the X-ray analyses. We show that the N_H values derived by
the X-ray and optical methods are not correlated.This may be because the X-ray
absorption and optical attenuation do not originate at the same location,
and/or the dust properties responsible for the optical attenuation in AGNs are
very different from the locally known dust properties. (abridged)