In this work, we explore the cosmological consequences of the recently
released Constitution sample of 397 Type Ia supernovae (SNIa). By revisiting
the Chevallier-Polarski-Linder (CPL) parameterization, we find that, for
fitting the Constitution set alone, the behavior of dark energy (DE)
significantly deviate from the cosmological constant $\Lambda$, where the
equation of state (EOS) $w$ and the energy density $\rho_{\Lambda}$ of DE will
rapidly decrease along with the increase of redshift $z$. Inspired by this
clue, we separate the redshifts into different bins, and discuss the models of
a constant $w$ or a constant $\rho_{\Lambda}$ in each bin, respectively. It is
found that for fitting the Constitution set alone, $w$ and $\rho_{\Lambda}$
will also rapidly decrease along with the increase of $z$, which is consistent
with the result of CPL model. Moreover, a step function model in which
$\rho_{\Lambda}$ rapidly decreases at redshift $z\sim0.331$ presents a
significant improvement ($\Delta \chi^{2}=-4.361$) over the CPL
parameterization, and performs better than other DE models. We also plot the
error bars of DE density of this model, and find that this model deviates from
the cosmological constant $\Lambda$ at 68.3% confidence level (CL); this may
arise from some biasing systematic errors in the handling of SNIa data, or more
interestingly from the nature of DE itself. In addition, for models with same
number of redshift bins, a piecewise constant $\rho_{\Lambda}$ model always
performs better than a piecewise constant $w$ model; this shows the advantage
of using $\rho_{\Lambda}$, instead of $w$, to probe the variation of DE.