The next generation of large-scale spectroscopic survey experiments such as
DESI, will use thousands of fiber positioner robots packed on a focal plate. In
order to maximize the observing time with this robotic system we need to move
in parallel the fiber-ends of all positioners from the previous to the next
target coordinates. Direct trajectories are not feasible due to collision risks
that could undeniably damage the robots and impact the survey operation and
performance. We have previously developed a motion planning method based on a
novel decentralized navigation function for collision-free coordination of
fiber positioners. The navigation function takes into account the configuration
of positioners as well as their envelope constraints. The motion planning
scheme has linear complexity and short motion duration (~2.5 seconds with the
maximum speed of 30 rpm for the positioner), which is independent of the number
of positioners. These two key advantages of the decentralization designate the
method as a promising solution for the collision-free motion-planning problem
in the next-generation of fiber-fed spectrographs. In a framework where a
centralized computer communicates with the positioner robots, communication
overhead can be reduced significantly by using velocity profiles consisting of
a few bits only. We present here the discretization of velocity profiles to
ensure the feasibility of a real-time coordination for a large number of
positioners. The modified motion planning method that generates piecewise
linearized position profiles guarantees collision-free trajectories for all the
robots. The velocity profiles fit few bits at the expense of higher
computational costs.