In this work we present the results of a novel approach devoted to
disentangle the role of the environmental processes affecting galaxies in
clusters. This is based on the analysis of the NUV-r' distributions of a large
sample of star-forming galaxies in clusters spanning more than four absolute
magnitudes. The galaxies inhabit three distinct environmental regions: virial
regions, cluster infall regions and field environment. We have applied rigorous
statistical tests in order to analyze both, the complete NUV-r' distributions
and their averages for three different bins of r'-band galaxy luminosity down
to M_r' ~ -18, throughout the three environmental regions considered. We have
identified the environmental processes that significantly affect the
star-forming galaxies in a given luminosity bin by using criteria based on the
characteristics of these processes: their typical time-scales, the regions
where they operate and the galaxy luminosity range for which their effects are
more intense. We have found that the high-luminosity (M_r'<=-20) star-forming
galaxies do not show significant signs in their star formation activity neither
of being affected by the environment in the last ~10^8 yr nor of a sudden
quenching in the last 1.5 Gyr. The intermediate-luminosity (-20<M_r'<=-19)
star-forming galaxies appear to be affected by starvation in the virial regions
and by the harassment both, in the virial and infall regions. Low-luminosity
(-19<M_r'<=-18.2) star-forming galaxies seem to be affected by the same
environmental processes as intermediate-luminosity star-forming galaxies in a
stronger way, as it would be expected for their lower luminosities.