Metagenomics characterizes the taxonomic diversity of microbial communities
by sequencing DNA directly from an environmental sample. One of the main
challenges in metagenomics data analysis is the binning step, where each
sequenced read is assigned to a taxonomic clade. Due to the large volume of
metagenomics datasets, binning methods need fast and accurate algorithms that
can operate with reasonable computing requirements. While standard
alignment-based methods provide state-of-the-art performance, compositional
approaches that assign a taxonomic class to a DNA read based on the k-mers it
contains have the potential to provide faster solutions. In this work, we
investigate the potential of modern, large-scale machine learning
implementations for taxonomic affectation of next-generation sequencing reads
based on their k-mers profile. We show that machine learning-based
compositional approaches benefit from increasing the number of fragments
sampled from reference genome to tune their parameters, up to a coverage of
about 10, and from increasing the k-mer size to about 12. Tuning these models
involves training a machine learning model on about 10 8 samples in 10 7
dimensions, which is out of reach of standard soft-wares but can be done
efficiently with modern implementations for large-scale machine learning. The
resulting models are competitive in terms of accuracy with well-established
alignment tools for problems involving a small to moderate number of candidate
species, and for reasonable amounts of sequencing errors. We show, however,
that compositional approaches are still limited in their ability to deal with
problems involving a greater number of species, and more sensitive to
sequencing errors. We finally confirm that compositional approach achieve
faster prediction times, with a gain of 3 to 15 times with respect to the
BWA-MEM short read mapper, depending on the number of candidate species and the
level of sequencing noise.