Protein side-chain packing is a critical component in obtaining the 3D
coordinates of a structure and drug discovery. Single-domain protein side-chain
packing has been thoroughly studied. A major challenge in generalizing these
methods to protein complexes is that they, unlike monomers, often have very
large treewidth, and thus algorithms such as TreePack cannot be directly
applied. To address this issue, SCWRL4 treats the complex effectively as a
monomer, heuristically excluding weak interactions to decrease treewidth; as a
result, SCWRL4 generates poor packings on protein interfaces. To date, few
side-chain packing methods exist that are specifically designed for protein
complexes. In this paper, we introduce a method, iTreePack, which solves the
side-chain packing problem for complexes by using a novel combination of dual
decomposition and tree decomposition. In particular, iTreePack overcomes the
problem of large treewidth by decomposing a protein complex into smaller
subgraphs and novelly reformulating the complex side-chain packing problem as a
dual relaxation problem; this allows us to solve the side-chain packing of each
small subgraph separately using tree-decomposition. A projected subgradient
algorithm is applied to enforcing the consistency among the side-chain packings
of all the small subgraphs. Computational results demonstrate that our
iTreePack program outperforms SCWRL4 on protein complexes. In particular,
iTreePack places side-chain atoms much more accurately on very large complexes,
which constitute a significant portion of protein-protein interactions.
Moreover, the advantage of iTreePack over SCWRL4 increases with respect to the
treewidth of a complex. Even for monomeric proteins, iTreePack is much more
efficient than SCWRL and slightly more accurate.