We investigate, both experimentally and theoretically, the fow and structure
of a slurry when sheared between 2 horizontal plates. The slurry, otherwise
called a "wet granular material", is made of non-Brownian particles immersed in
a viscous fluid. The particles are heavier than the fluid, consequently,
gravity influences the structure and flow profiles of the sheared material.
Experiments are carried out in a plane Couette device, with a model slurry
composed of approximately monodisperse spherical PMMA particles in oil, at high
average solid concentration (about 58%). Optical observation reveals a typical
2-phase configuration, with a fluidized layer in contact with the upper plate
and on top of an amorphous solid phase. We provide data on velocity profiles,
wall-slip and shear stress versus the average shear rate. To interpret the
data, we propose a model for the ideal case of infinite horizontal flat plates.
The model, of mean field type, is based on local constitutive equations for the
tangential and normal components of the stress tensor and on expressions
relating the material viscometric coefficients (the shear viscosity eta and the
normal viscosity psi) with the local concentration (phi) and the local shear
rate. 1-,2- and 3-phase configurations are predicted, with non linear flow and
concentration profiles. We conclude that the model equations correctly describe
the experimental data, provided that appropriate forms are chosen for the
divergence of eta and psi near the packing concentration (phi_max), namely a
(phi_max-phi)^-1 singularity.