High-dispersion IUE data encode significant information about aggregate line
absorptions that cannot be conveniently extracted from individual spectra. We
apply a new technique in which fluxes from each echelle order of a short
wavelength IUE spectrum are binned together to construct low-resolution spectra
of a rapidly varying B or Be star. The ratio of binned spectra obtained bright-
star and faint-star phases contains information about the mechanism responsible
for a star's variability, such as from pulsations or occultations of the star
by ejected matter. We model the variations caused by these mechanism by means
of model atmosphere and absorbing-slab codes. Line absorptions strength changes
are sensitive to conditions in circumstellar clouds with T = 8,000--13,000K. To
demonstrate proofs of concept, we construct spectral ratios for circumstellar
structures associated with flux variability in various Be stars: (1) Vela X1
has bow-shock wind trailing its neutron star companion and shows signatures of
gas at 13,000K or 26,000K medium in different sectors, (2) 88 Her undergoes
episodic outbursts as its UV flux fades, followed a year later by a dimming in
visible wavelengths, a result of a gray opacity that dominates as the shell
expands and cools, and (3) zeta Tau and 60 Cyg exhibit periodic spectrum and
flux changes, which match model absorptions for occulting clouds. Also, ratioed
UV spectra of strongly pulsating stars show unique spectrophotometric
signatures which can be simulated with models. An analysis of ratioed spectra
obtained for a typical sample of 18 classical Be stars known to have rapid
periodic flux variations indicates that 13 of them have ratioed spectra which
are relatively featureless or have signatures of pulsation. Ratioed spectra of
3 others in the sample are consistent with the presence of co-rotating clouds.