Many glass-forming fluids exhibit a remarkable thermodynamic scaling in which
dynamic properties, such as the viscosity, the relaxation time, and the
diffusion constant, can be described under different thermodynamic conditions
in terms of a unique scaling function of the ratio rho^gamma/T, where rho is
the density, T is the temperature, and gamma is a material dependent constant.
Given the successes of the generalized entropy theory in elucidating the
influence of molecular details on the universal properties of glass-forming
polymers, this theory is extended here to investigate the thermodynamic scaling
in polymer melts. The predictions of theory are in accord with the appearance
of thermodynamic scaling for pressures not in excess of about 50 MPa. (The
failure at higher pressures arises due to inherent limitations of a lattice
model.) In line with arguments relating the magnitude of gamma to the steepness
of the repulsive part of the intermolecular potential, the abrupt, square-well
nature of the lattice model interactions lead, as expected, to much larger
values of the scaling exponent. Nevertheless, the theory is employed to study
how individual molecular parameters affect the scaling exponent in order to
extract a molecular understanding of the information content contained in the
exponent. The chain rigidity, cohesive energy, chain length, and the side group
length are all found to significantly affect the magnitude of the scaling
exponent, and the computed trends agree well with available experiments. The
variations of gamma with these molecular parameters are explained by
establishing a correlation between the computed molecular dependence of the
scaling exponent and the fragility. Thus, the efficiency of packing the
polymers is established as the universal physical mechanism determining both
the fragility and the scaling exponent gamma.