We studied the geometrical and topological rules underlying the dispositions
and the size distribution of non-overlapping, polydisperse circle-packings. We
found that the size distribution of circles that densely cover a plane follows
the power law: $N(R) \propto R^{-\alpha}$. We obtained an approximate
expression which relates the exponent $\alpha$ to the average coordination
number and to the packing strategy. In the case of disordered packings (where
the circles have random sizes and positions) we found the upper bound
$\alpha_{Max} = 2$. The results obtained for circles-packing was extended to
packing of spheres and hyper-spheres in spaces of arbitrary dimension D. We
found that the size distribution of dense packed polydisperse $D$-spheres,
follows -as in the two dimensional case- a power law, where the exponent
$\alpha$ depends on the packing strategy. In particular, in the case of
disordered packing, we obtained the upper bound $\alpha_{Max}=D$.
Circle-covering generated by computer simulations, gives size distributions
that are in agreement with these analytical predictions. Tin drops generated by
vapour deposition on a hot substrate form breath figures where the drop-size
distributions are power laws with exponent $\alpha \simeq 2$. We pointed out
the similarity between these structures and the circle-packings. Despite the
complicated mechanism of formation of these structures, we showed that it is
possible to describe the drops arrangements, the size distribution and the
evolution at constant coverage, in term of maximum packing of circles regulated
by coalescence.