We perform numerical integrations of four-body (star, planet, planet,
satellite) systems to investigate the stability of satellites in planetary
Systems with Tightly-packed Inner Planets (STIPs). We find that the majority of
closely-spaced stable two-planet systems can stably support satellites across a
range of parameter-space which is only slightly decreased compared to that seen
for the single-planet case. In particular, circular prograde satellites remain
stable out to $\sim 0.4 R_H$ (where $R_H$ is the Hill Radius) as opposed to
$\sim 0.5 R_H$ in the single-planet case. A similarly small restriction in the
stable parameter-space for retrograde satellites is observed, where planetary
close approaches in the range 2.5 to 4.5 mutual Hill radii destabilize most
satellites orbits only if $a\sim 0.65 R_H$. In very close planetary pairs (e.g.
the 12:11 resonance) the addition of a satellite frequently destabilizes the
entire system, causing extreme close-approaches and the loss of satellites over
a range of circumplanetary semi-major axes. The majority of systems
investigated stably harbored satellites over a wide parameter-space, suggesting
that STIPs can generally offer a dynamically stable home for satellites, albeit
with a slightly smaller stable parameter-space than the single-planet case. As
we demonstrate that multi-planet systems are not a priori poor candidates for
hosting satellites, future measurements of satellite occurrence rates in
multi-planet systems versus single-planet systems could be used to constrain
either satellite formation or past periods of strong dynamical interaction
between planets.