We present galaxy cluster mass-richness relations found in the Sloan Digital
Sky Survey Stripe 82 co-add using clusters found using a Voronoi tessellation
cluster finder. These relations were found using stacked weak lensing shear
observed in a large sample of galaxy clusters. These mass-richness relations
are presented for four redshift bins, $0.1 < z \leq 0.4$, $0.4 < z \leq 0.7$,
$0.7 < z \leq 1.0$ and $0.1 < z \leq 1.0$. We describe the sample of galaxy
clusters and explain how these clusters were found using a Voronoi tessellation
cluster finder. We fit an NFW profile to the stacked weak lensing shear signal
in redshift and richness bins in order to measure virial mass $(M_{200})$. We
describe several effects that can bias weak lensing measurements, including
photometric redshift bias, the effect of the central BCG, halo miscentering,
photometric redshift uncertainty and foreground galaxy contamination. We
present mass-richness relations using richness measure $N_{VT}$ with each of
these effects considered separately as well as considered altogether. We also
examine redshift evolution of the mass-richness relation. As a result we
present measurements of the mass coefficient ($M_{200|20}$) and the power law
slope ($\alpha$) for power law fits to the mass and richness values in each of
the redshift bins. We find values of the mass coefficient of $8.49 \pm 0.526$,
$14.1 \pm 1.78$, $30.2 \pm 8.74$ and $9.23 \pm 0.525 \times 10^{13}$ $h^{-1}$
$M_{sun}$ for each of the four redshift bins respectively. We find values of
the power law slope of $0.905 \pm 0.0585$, $0.948 \pm 0.100$, $1.33 \pm 0.260$
and $0.883 \pm 0.0500$ respectively.