Dense packings of hard particles have important applications in many fields,
including condensed matter physics, discrete geometry and cell biology. In this
paper, we employ a stochastic search implementation of the Torquato-Jiao
Adaptive-Shrinking-Cell optimization scheme [Nature 460, 876 (2009)] to find
maximally dense particle packings in d-dimensional Euclidean space
$\mathbb{R}^d$. While the original implementation was designed to study spheres
and convex polyhedra in $d\ge3$, our implementation focuses on $d=2$ and
extends the algorithm to include both concave polygons and certain convex or
concave non-polygonal particle shapes. We verify the robustness of this packing
protocol by successfully reproducing the known putative optimal packings of
congruent copies of regular pentagons and octagons, then employ it to suggest
dense packing arrangements of congruent copies of certain families of concave
crosses, convex and concave curved triangles (incorporating shapes resembling
the Mercedes-Benz logo), and "moon-like" shapes. Analytical constructions are
determined subsequently to obtain the densest known packings of these particle
shapes. For the examples considered, we find that the densest packings of both
convex and concave particles with central symmetry are achieved by their
corresponding optimal Bravais lattice packings; for particles lacking central
symmetry, the densest packings obtained are non-lattice periodic packings,
which are consistent with recently-proposed general organizing principles for
hard particles. Moreover, we find that the densest known packings of certain
curved triangles are periodic with a four-particle basis, and we find that the
densest known periodic packings of certain moon-like shapes possess no inherent
symmetries. Our work adds to the growing evidence that particle shape can be
used as a tuning parameter to achieve a diversity of packing structures.