Analog-to-digital conversion (ADC) is a key bottleneck in scaling DSP-centric
receiver architectures to multiGigabit/s speeds. Recent information-theoretic
results, obtained under ideal channel conditions (perfect synchronization, no
dispersion), indicate that low-precision ADC (1-4 bits) could be a suitable
choice for designing such high speed systems. In this work, we study the impact
of employing low-precision ADC in a {\it carrier asynchronous} system.
Specifically, we consider transmission over the block noncoherent Additive
White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) channel, and investigate the achievable performance
under low-precision output quantization. We focus attention on an architecture
in which the receiver quantizes {\it only the phase} of the received signal:
this has the advantage of being implementable without automatic gain control,
using multiple 1-bit ADCs preceded by analog multipliers. For standard uniform
Phase Shift Keying (PSK) modulation, we study the structure of the transition
density of the resulting phase-quantized block noncoherent channel. Several
results, based on the symmetry inherent in the channel model, are provided to
characterize this transition density. Low-complexity procedures for computing
the channel capacity, and for block demodulation, are obtained using these
results. Numerical computations are performed to compare the performance of
quantized and unquantized systems, for different quantization precisions, and
different block lengths. It is observed, for example, that with QPSK
modulation, 8-bin phase quantization of the received signal recovers about
80-85% of the capacity attained with unquantized observations, while 12-bin
phase quantization recovers more than 90% of the unquantized capacity.
Dithering the constellation is shown to improve the performance in the face of
drastic quantization.