We present a new measure of the angular two-point correlation function of
Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs) at z~3, obtained from the variance of galaxy counts
in 2-dimensional cells. By avoiding binning of the angular separations, this
method is significantly less affected by shot noise than traditional measures,
and allows for a more accurate determination of the correlation function. We
used a sample of about 1,000 galaxies with R<=25.5 extracted from the survey by
Steidel and collaborators, and found the following results. At scales in the
range 30<~theta<~100 arcsec, the angular correlation function w(theta) can be
accurately described as a power law with slope beta=0.50 +0.25-0.50(1 sigma
random)-0.10(systematic), shallower than the measure presented by Giavalisco et
al. However, the spatial correlation length, derived by Limber deprojection, is
in very good agreement with the previous measures, confirming the strong
spatial clustering of these sources. We discuss in detail the effects of both
random and systematic errors, in particular of the so called ``integral
constraint'' bias, to which we set a lower limit using numerical simulations.
This suggests that the current samples do not yet provide a ``fair
representation'' of the large-scale distribution of LBGs at z~3. An intriguing
result of our analysis is that at angular separations smaller than theta<~30
arcsec the correlation function seems to depart from the power-law fitted at
larger scales and become smaller. This feature is detected at the ~90 per cent
confidence level and, if real, it can provide information on the number density
and spatial distribution of LBGs within their host halos as well as the size
and the mass of the halos.