We study the radial number density and stellar mass density distributions of
satellite galaxies in a sample of 60 massive clusters at 0.04<z<0.26 selected
from the Multi-Epoch Nearby Cluster Survey (MENeaCS) and the Canadian Cluster
Comparison Project (CCCP). In addition to ~10,000 spectroscopically confirmed
member galaxies, we use deep ugri-band imaging to estimate photometric
redshifts and stellar masses, and then statistically subtract fore-, and
background sources using data from the COSMOS survey. We measure the galaxy
number density and stellar mass density distributions in logarithmically spaced
bins over 2 orders of magnitude in radial distance from the BCGs. For projected
distances in the range 0.1<R/R200<2.0, we find that the stellar mass
distribution is well-described by an NFW profile with a concentration of
c=2.03+/-0.20. However, at smaller radii we measure a significant excess in the
stellar mass in satellite galaxies of about $10^{11}$ Msun per cluster,
compared to these NFW profiles. We do obtain good fits to generalized NFW
profiles with free inner slopes, and to Einasto profiles. To examine how
clusters assemble their stellar mass component over cosmic time, we compare
this local sample to the GCLASS cluster sample at z~1, which represents the
approximate progenitor sample of the low-z clusters. This allows for a direct
comparison, which suggests that the central parts (R<0.4 Mpc) of the stellar
mass distributions of satellites in local galaxy clusters are already in place
at z~1, and contain sufficient excess material for further BCG growth. Evolving
towards z=0, clusters appear to assemble their stellar mass primarily onto the
outskirts, making them grow in an inside-out fashion.