We look for trends relating the mass accretion rate (Macc) and the stellar
ages (t), spectral energy distributions (SEDs), and disk masses (Mdisk) for a
sample of 38 HAeBe stars, comparing them to analogous correlations found for
classical T Tauri stars. Our goal is to shed light on the timescale and
physical processes that drive evolution of intermediate-mass pre-main sequence
objects.
  Macc shows a dissipation timescale \tau = 1.3^{+1.0}_{-0.5} Myr from an
exponential law fit, while a power law yields Macc(t) \propto t^{-\eta}, with
\eta = 1.8^{+1.4}_{-0.7}. This result is based on our whole HAeBe sample (1-6
Msun), but the accretion rate decline most probably depends on smaller stellar
mass bins. The near-IR excess is higher and starts at shorter wavelengths (J
and H bands) for the strongest accretors. Active and passive disks are roughly
divided by 2 x 10^{-7} Msun/yr. The mid-IR excess and the SED shape from the
Meeus et al. classification are not correlated with Macc. We find Macc \propto
Mdisk^{1.1 +- 0.3}. Most stars in our sample with signs of inner dust
dissipation typically show accretion rates ten times lower and disk masses
three times smaller than the remaining objects.
  The trends relating Macc with the near-IR excess and Mdisk extend those for T
Tauri stars, and are consistent with viscous disk models. The differences in
the inner gas dissipation timescale, and the relative position of the stars
with signs of inner dust clearing in the Macc-Mdisk plane, could be suggesting
a slightly faster evolution, and that a different process - such as
photoevaporation - plays a more relevant role in dissipating disks in the HAeBe
regime compared to T Tauri stars. Our conclusions must consider the mismatch
between the disk mass estimates from mm fluxes and the disk mass estimates from
accretion, which we also find in HAeBe stars.