We present 6.4 keV iron K-alpha fluorescent line profiles predicted for a
relativistic black hole accretion disk in the presence of a spiral motion in
Kerr geometry, the work extended from an earlier literature motivated by recent
magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) simulations. The velocity field of the spiral motion,
superposed on the background Keplerian flow, results in a complicated redshift
distribution in the accretion disk. An X-ray source attributed to a localized
flaring region on the black hole symmetry axis illuminates the iron in the
disk. The emissivity form becomes very steep because of the light bending
effect from the primary X-ray source to the disk. The predicted line profile is
calculated for various spiral waves, and we found, regardless of the source
height, that: (i) a multiple-peak along with a classical double-peak structure
generally appears, (ii) such a multiple-peak can be categorized into two types,
sharp sub-peaks and periodic spiky peaks, (iii) a tightly-packed spiral wave
tends to produce more spiky multiple peaks, whereas (iv) a spiral wave with a
larger amplitude seems to generate more sharp sub-peaks, (v) the effect seems
to be less significant when the spiral wave is centrally concentrated, (vi) the
line shape may show a drastic change (forming a double-peak, triple-peak or
multiple-peak feature) as the spiral wave rotates with the disk. Our results
emphasize that around a rapidly-rotating black hole an extremely redshifted
iron line profile with a noticeable spike-like feature can be realized in the
presence of the spiral wave. Future X-ray observations, from {\it Astro-E2} for
example, will have sufficient spectral resolution for testing our spiral wave
model which exhibits unique spike-like features.