Dense random packings of hard particles are useful models of granular media
and are closely related to the structure of nonequilibrium low-temperature
amorphous phases of matter. Most work has been done for random jammed packings
of spheres, and it is only recently that corresponding packings of nonspherical
particles (e.g., ellipsoids) have received attention. Here we report a study of
the maximally random jammed (MRJ) packings of binary superdisks and
monodispersed superballs whose shapes are defined by |x_1|^2p+...+|x_2|^2p<=1
with d = 2 and 3, respectively, where p is the deformation parameter with
values in the interval (0, infinity). We find that the MRJ densities of such
packings increase dramatically and nonanalytically as one moves away from the
circular-disk and sphere point. Moreover, the disordered packings are
hypostatic and the local arrangements of particles are necessarily nontrivially
correlated to achieve jamming. We term such correlated structures "nongeneric".
The degree of "nongenericity" of the packings is quantitatively characterized
by determining the fraction of local coordination structures in which the
central particles have fewer contacting neighbors than average. We also show
that such seemingly special packing configurations are counterintuitively not
rare. As the anisotropy of the particles increases, the fraction of rattlers
decreases while the minimal orientational order increases. These novel
characteristics result from the unique rotational symmetry breaking manner of
the particles.