We present a detailed analysis of the carbon and nitrogen abundances of two
dwarf carbon-enhanced metal-poor (CEMP) stars: SDSS J1349-0229 and SDSS
J0912+0216. We also report the oxygen abundance of SDSS J1349-0229. These stars
are metal-poor, with [Fe/H] < -2.5, and were selected from our ongoing survey
of extremely metal-poor dwarf candidates from the Sloan Digital SkySurvey
(SDSS). The carbon, nitrogen and oxygen abundances rely on molecular lines
which form in the outer layers of the stellar atmosphere. It is known that
convection in metal-poor stars induces very low temperatures which are not
predicted by `classical' 1D stellar atmospheres. To obtain the correct
temperature structure, one needs full 3D hydrodynamical models. Using CO5BOLD
3D hydrodynamical model atmospheres and the Linfor3D line formation code,
molecular lines of CH, NH, OH and C2 were computed, and 3D carbon, nitrogen and
oxygen abundances were determined. The resulting carbon abundances were
compared to abundances derived using atomic CI lines in 1D LTE and NLTE. There
is not a good agreement between the carbon abundances determined from C2 bands
and from the CH band, and molecular lines do not agree with the atomic CI
lines. Although this may be partly due to uncertainties in the transition
probabilities of the molecular bands it certainly has to do with the
temperature structure of the outer layers of the adopted model atmosphere. We
explore the influence of the 3D model properties on the molecular abundance
determination. In particular, the choice of the number of opacity bins used in
the model calculations and its subsequent effects on the temperature structure
and molecular line formation is discussed. (Abridged)