Since the release of the INTEGRAL Offline Scientific Analysis (OSA) software
version 9.0, the ghost busters module has been introduced in the INTEGRAL/IBIS
imaging procedure, leading to an improvement of the sensitivity around bright
sources up to a factor of 7. This module excludes in the deconvolution process
the IBIS/ISGRI detector pixels corresponding to the projection of a bright
source through mask elements affected by some defects. These defects are most
likely associated with screws and glue fixing the IBIS mask to its support.
Following these major improvements introduced in OSA 9, a second order
correction is still required to further remove the residual noise, now at a
level of 0.2-1% of the brightest source in the field of view. In order to
improve our knowledge of the IBIS mask transparency, a calibration campaign has
been carried out during 2010-2012. We present here the analysis of these data,
together with archival observations of the Crab and Cyg X-1, that allowed us to
build a composite image of the mask defects and to investigate the origin of
the residual noise in the IBIS/ISGRI images. Thanks to this study, we were able
to point out a simple modification of the ISGRI analysis software that allows
to significantly improve the quality of the images in which bright sources are
detected at the edge of the field of view. Moreover, a refinement of the area
excluded by the ghost busters module is considered, and preliminary results
show improvements to be further tested. Finally, this study indicates further
directions to be investigated for improving the ISGRI sensitivity, such as
taking into account the thickness of the screws in the mask model or studying
the possible discrepancy between the modeled and actual mask element bridges.