We study the dependence of angular two-point correlation functions on stellar
mass ($M_{*}$) and specific star formation rate (sSFR) of
$M_{*}>10^{10}M_{\odot}$ galaxies at $z\sim1$. The data from UKIDSS DXS and
CFHTLS covering 8.2 deg$^{2}$ sample scales larger than 100 $h^{-1}$Mpc at
$z\sim1$, allowing us to investigate the correlation between clustering,
$M_{*}$, and star formation through halo modeling. Based on halo occupation
distributions (HODs) of $M_{*}$ threshold samples, we derive HODs for $M_{*}$
binned galaxies, and then calculate the $M_{*}/M_{\rm halo}$ ratio. The ratio
for central galaxies shows a peak at $M_{\rm halo}\sim10^{12}h^{-1}M_{\odot}$,
and satellites predominantly contribute to the total stellar mass in cluster
environments with $M_{*}/M_{\rm halo}$ values of 0.01--0.02. Using star-forming
galaxies split by sSFR, we find that main sequence galaxies ($\rm
log\,sSFR/yr^{-1}\sim-9$) are mainly central galaxies in $\sim10^{12.5}
h^{-1}M_{\odot}$ haloes with the lowest clustering amplitude, while lower sSFR
galaxies consist of a mixture of both central and satellite galaxies where
those with the lowest $M_{*}$ are predominantly satellites influenced by their
environment. Considering the lowest $M_{\rm halo}$ samples in each $M_{*}$ bin,
massive central galaxies reside in more massive haloes with lower sSFRs than
low mass ones, indicating star-forming central galaxies evolve from a low
$M_{*}$--high sSFR to a high $M_{*}$--low sSFR regime. We also find that the
most rapidly star-forming galaxies ($\rm log\,sSFR/yr^{-1}>-8.5$) are in more
massive haloes than main sequence ones, possibly implying galaxy mergers in
dense environments are driving the active star formation. These results support
the conclusion that the majority of star-forming galaxies follow secular
evolution through the sustained but decreasing formation of stars.