We present the X-ray source catalog for the Chandra monitoring observations
of the elliptical galaxy, NGC 4649. The galaxy has been observed with Chandra
ACIS-S3 in six separate pointings, reaching a total exposure of 299 ks. There
are 501 X-ray sources detected in the 0.3-8.0 keV band in the merged
observation or in one of the six individual observations; 399 sources are
located within the D_25 ellipse. The observed 0.3-8.0 keV luminosities of these
501 sources range from 9.3x10^{36} erg/s to 5.4x10^{39} erg/s. The 90%
detection completeness limit within the D_25 ellipse is 5.5x10^{37} erg/s.
Based on the surface density of background active galactic nuclei (AGNs) and
detection completeness, we expect ~45 background AGNs among the catalog sources
(~15 within the D_25 ellipse). There are nine sources with luminosities greater
than 10^{39} erg/s, which are candidates for ultraluminous X-ray sources. The
nuclear source of NGC 4649 is a low-luminosity AGN, with an intrinsic 2.0-8.0
keV X-ray luminosity of 1.5x10^{38} erg/s. The X-ray colors suggest that the
majority of the catalog sources are low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs). We find
that 164 of the 501 X-ray sources show long-term variability, indicating that
they are accreting compact objects. We discover four transient candidates and
another four potential transients. We also identify 173 X-ray sources (141
within the D_25 ellipse) that are associated with globular clusters (GCs) based
on Hubble Space Telescope and ground-based data; these LMXBs tend to be hosted
by red GCs. Although NGC 4649 has a much larger population of X-ray sources
than the structurally similar early-type galaxies, NGC 3379 and NGC 4278, yet
the X-ray source properties are comparable in all three systems.