ICL is believed to originate from the stars stripped from cluster galaxies.
They are no longer gravitationally bound to individual galaxies, but to the
cluster, and their smooth distribution potentially makes them serve as much
denser tracers of the cluster dark matter than the sparsely distributed cluster
galaxies. We present our study of the ICL in Cl 0024+17 using both ACS and
Subaru data, where we previously reported discovery of a ringlike dark matter
structure with gravitational lensing. The ACS images provide much lower sky
levels than ground data, and enable us to measure relative variation of surface
brightness reliably. This analysis is repeated with the Subaru images to
examine if consistent features are recovered despite different reduction scheme
and instrumental characteristics. We find that the ICL profile clearly
resembles the peculiar mass profile, which stops decreasing at r~50" (~265 kpc)
and slowly increases until it turns over at r~75" (~397 kpc). This feature is
seen in both ACS and Subaru images for nearly all available passband images
while the features are stronger in red filters. The consistency across
different filters and instruments strongly rules out the possibility that the
feature might come from any residual, uncorrected calibration errors. In
addition, our re-analysis of the cluster X-ray data shows that the peculiar
mass structure is also indicated by a non-negligible bump in the intracluster
gas profile when the geometric center of the dark matter ring, not the peak of
the X-ray emission, is chosen as the center of the radial bin. The location of
the gas ring is closer to the center by ~15" (~80 kpc), raising an interesting
possibility that the ring-like structure is expanding and the gas ring is
lagging behind perhaps because of the ram pressure if both features in mass and
gas share the same dynamical origin.