We report radial velocity measurements of the G-type subgiants 24 Sextanis
(=HD90043) and HD200964. Both are massive, evolved stars that exhibit periodic
variations due to the presence of a pair of Jovian planets. Photometric
monitoring with the T12 0.80m APT at Fairborn Observatory demonstrates both
stars to be constant in brightness to <= 0.002 mag, thus strengthening the
planetary interpretation of the radial velocity variations. 24 Sex b,c have
orbital periods of 453.8 days and 883~days, corresponding to semimajor axes
1.333 AU and 2.08 AU, and minimum masses (Msini) 1.99 Mjup and 0.86 Mjup,
assuming a stellar mass 1.54 Msun. HD200964 b,c have orbital periods of 613.8
days and 825 days, corresponding to semimajor axes 1.601 AU and 1.95 AU, and
minimum masses 1.85 Mjup and 0.90 Mjup, assuming M* = 1.44 Msun. We also carry
out dynamical simulations to properly account for gravitational interactions
between the planets. Most, if not all, of the dynamically stable solutions
include crossing orbits, suggesting that each system is locked in a mean motion
resonance that prevents close encounters and provides long-term stability. The
planets in the 24 Sex system likely have a period ratio near 2:1, while the
HD200964 system is even more tightly packed with a period ratio close to 4:3.
However, we caution that further radial velocity observations and more detailed
dynamical modelling will be required to provide definitive and unique orbital
solutions for both cases, and to determine whether the two systems are truly
resonant.