The slow dynamics for a colloidal suspension of particles interacting with a
hard-core repulsion complemented by a short-ranged attraction is discussed
within the frame of mode-coupling theory for ideal glass transitions for
parameter points near a higher-order glass-transition singularity. The
solutions of the equations of motion for the density correlation functions are
solved for the square-well system in quantitative detail by asymptotic
expansion using the distance of the three control parameters packing fraction,
attraction strength and attraction range from their critical values as small
parameters. For given wave vectors, distinguished surfaces in parameter space
are identified where the next-to-leading order contributions for the expansion
vanish so that the decay functions exhibit a logarithmic decay over large time
intervals. For both coherent and tagged particle dynamics the leading-order
logarithmic decay is accessible in the liquid regime for wave vectors of
several times the principal peak in the structure factor. The logarithmic decay
in the correlation function is manifested in the mean-squared displacement as a
subdiffusive power law with an exponent varying sensitively with the control
parameters. Shifting parameters through the distinguished surfaces, the
correlation functions and the logarithm of the mean-squared displacement
considered as functions of the logarithm of the time exhibit a crossover from
concave to convex behavior, and a similar scenario is obtained when varying the
wave vector.