We present near ultraviolet (NUV:1750 - 2800\AA) and far ultraviolet (FUV:
1350 - 1750\AA) light-curves for flares on 4 nearby dMe-type stars (GJ 3685A,
CR Dra, AF Psc and SDSS J084425.9+513830.5) observed with the GALEX satellite.
Taking advantage of the time-tagged events recorded with the GALEX photon
counting detectors, we present high temporal resolution (<0.01 sec) analysis of
these UV flare data. A statistical analysis of 700 seconds of pre-flare
quiescence data for both CR Dra and SDSS J084425.9+513830.5 failed to reveal
the presence of significant micro-flare activity in time bins of 0.2, 1 and 10
second intervals. Using an appropriate differential emission measure for both
the quiescent and flaring state, it is possible to reproduce the observed
FUV:NUV flux ratios. A major determinant in reproducing this flux ratio is
found to be the value of plasma electron density during the flare. We also
searched the count rate data recorded during each of the four flare events for
periodicity associated with magneto-hydrodynamic oscillations in the active
region coronal loops. Significant oscillations were detected during the flare
events observed on all 4 stars, with periodicities found in the 30 to 40 second
range. Flare oscillations with this periodicity can be explained as acoustic
waves in a coronal loop of length of $\approx 10^{9}$ cm for an assumed plasma
temperature of $5-20 \times 10^{6}$K. This suggests a loop length for these
M-dwarf flares of less than $1/10^{th}$ of the stellar radii. We believe that
this is the first detection of non-solar coronal loop flare oscillations
observed at ultraviolet wavelengths.