Two fundamental issues surrounding research on the image of the city
respectively focus on the city's external and internal representations. The
external representation in the context of this paper refers to the city itself,
external to human minds, while the internal representation concerns how the
city is represented in human minds internally. This paper deals with the first
issue, i.e., what trait the city has that make it imageable? We develop an
argument that the image of the city arises from the underlying scaling of city
artifacts or locations. This scaling refers to the fact that, in an imageable
city (a city that can easily be imaged in human minds), small city artifacts
are far more common than large ones; or alternatively low dense locations are
far more common than high dense locations. The sizes of city artifacts in a
rank-size plot exhibit a heavy tailed distribution consisting of the head,
which is composed of a minority of unique artifacts (vital and very important),
and the tail, which is composed of redundant other artifacts (trivial and less
important). Eventually, those extremely unique and vital artifacts in the top
head, i.e., what Lynch called city elements, make up the image of the city. We
argue that the ever-increasing amount of geographic information on cities, in
particular obtained from social media such as Flickr and Twitter, can turn
research on the image of the city, or cognitive mapping in general, into a
quantitative manner. The scaling property might be formulated as a law of
geography.
  Keywords: Scaling of geographic space, face of the city, cognitive maps,
power law, and heavy tailed distributions.