We present an analysis of the X-ray emission from a large sample of
ultraviolet (UV) selected, star forming galaxies with 0.74<z<1.32 in the Hubble
Deep Field North (HDF-N) region. By excluding all sources with significant
detected X-ray emission in the 2 Ms Chandra observation we are able to examine
the properties of galaxies for which the emission in both UV and X-ray is
expected to be predominantly due to star formation. Stacking the X-ray flux
from 216 galaxies in the soft and hard bands produces significant detections.
The derived mean 2-10 keV rest-frame luminosity is 2.97+/-0.26x10^(40) erg/s,
corresponding to an X-ray derived star formation rate (SFR) of 6.0+/-0.6
Msolar/yr. Comparing the X-ray value with the mean UV derived SFR, uncorrected
for attenuation, we find that the average UV attenuation correction factor is
\~3. By binning the galaxy sample according to UV magnitude and colour,
correlations between UV and X-ray emission are also examined. We find a strong
positive correlation between X-ray emission and rest-frame UV emission. A
correlation between the ratio of X-ray-to-UV emission and UV colour is also
seen, such that L(X)/L(UV) increases for redder galaxies. Given that X-ray
emission offers a view of star formation regions that is relatively unaffected
by extinction, results such as these can be used to evaluate the effects of
dust on the UV emission from high-z galaxies. For instance we derive a
relationship for estimating UV attenuation corrections as a function of colour
excess. The observed relation is inconsistent with the Calzetti et al. (2000)
reddening law which over predicts the range in UV attenuation corrections by a
factor of ~100 for the UV selected z~1 galaxies in this sample (abridged).