Atomic-accuracy structure prediction of macromolecules is a long-sought goal
of computational biophysics. Accurate modeling should be achievable by
optimizing a physically realistic energy function but is presently precluded by
incomplete sampling of a biopolymer's many degrees of freedom. We present
herein a working hypothesis, called the "stepwise ansatz", for recursively
constructing well-packed atomic-detail models in small steps, enumerating
several million conformations for each monomer and covering all build-up paths.
By implementing the strategy in Rosetta and making use of high-performance
computing, we provide first tests of this hypothesis on a benchmark of fifteen
RNA loop modeling problems drawn from riboswitches, ribozymes, and the
ribosome, including ten cases that were not solvable by prior knowledge based
modeling approaches. For each loop problem, this deterministic stepwise
assembly (SWA) method either reaches atomic accuracy or exposes flaws in
Rosetta's all-atom energy function, indicating the resolution of the
conformational sampling bottleneck. To our knowledge, SWA is the first
enumerative, ab initio build-up method to systematically outperform existing
Monte Carlo and knowledge-based methods for 3D structure prediction. As a
rigorous experimental test, we have applied SWA to a small RNA motif of
previously unknown structure, the C7.2 tetraloop/tetraloop-receptor, and
stringently tested this blind prediction with nucleotide-resolution structure
mapping data.