The Bayesian approach to Inverse Problems relies predominantly on Markov
Chain Monte Carlo methods for posterior inference. The typical nonlinear
concentration of posterior measure observed in many such Inverse Problems
presents severe challenges to existing simulation based inference methods.
Motivated by these challenges the exploitation of local geometric information
in the form of covariant gradients, metric tensors, Levi-Civita connections,
and local geodesic flows, have been introduced to more effectively locally
explore the configuration space of the posterior measure. However, obtaining
such geometric quantities usually requires extensive computational effort and
despite their effectiveness affect the applicability of these
geometrically-based Monte Carlo methods. In this paper we explore one way to
address this issue by the construction of an emulator of the model from which
all geometric objects can be obtained in a much more computationally feasible
manner. The main concept is to approximate the geometric quantities using a
Gaussian Process emulator which is conditioned on a carefully chosen design set
of configuration points, which also determines the quality of the emulator. To
this end we propose the use of statistical experiment design methods to refine
a potentially arbitrarily initialized design online without destroying the
convergence of the resulting Markov chain to the desired invariant measure. The
practical examples considered in this paper provide a demonstration of the
significant improvement possible in terms of computational loading suggesting
this is a promising avenue of further development.