In this paper we consider a modification to Darcy equation by taking into
account the dependence of viscosity on the pressure. We present a stabilized
mixed formulation for the resulting governing equations. Equal-order
interpolation for the velocity and pressure is considered, and shown to be
stable (which is not the case under the classical mixed formulation). The
proposed mixed formulation is tested using a wide variety of numerical
examples. The proposed formulation is also implemented in a parallel setting,
and the performance of the formulation for large-scale problems is illustrated
using a representative problem. Two practical and technologically important
problems, one each on enhanced oil recovery and geological carbon-dioxide
sequestration, are solved using the proposed formulation. The numerical
examples show that the predictions based on Darcy model are qualitatively and
quantitatively different from that of the predictions based on the modified
Darcy model, which takes into account the dependence of the viscosity on the
pressure. In particular, the numerical example on the geological carbon-dioxide
sequestration shows that Darcy model over-predicts the leakage into an
abandoned well when compared to that of the modified Darcy model. On the other
hand, the modified Darcy model predicts higher pressures and higher pressure
gradients near the injection well. These predictions have dire consequences in
predicting damage and fracture zones, and designing the seal, whose integrity
is crucial to the safety of a geological carbon-dioxide sequestration
geosystem.