The measurement of the position of the chiral critical end point (CEP) in the
QCD phase diagram is under debate. While it is possible to predict its position
by using effective models specifically built to reproduce some of the features
of the underlying theory (QCD), the quality of the predictions (\textit{e.g.},
the CEP position) obtained by such effective models, depends on whether solving
the model equations constitute a well- or ill-posed inverse problem.
  Considering these predictions as being inverse problems provides tools to
evaluate if the problem is ill-conditioned, meaning that infinitesimal
variations of the inputs of the model can cause comparatively large variations
of the predictions. If it is ill-conditioned, it has major consequences because
of finite variations that could come from experimental and/or theoretical
errors.
  In the following, we shall apply such a reasoning on the predictions of a
particular Nambu--Jona-Lasinio model within the mean field + ring
approximations, with special attention to the prediction of the chiral CEP
position in the $(T-\mu)$ plane. We find that the problem is ill-conditioned
(\idest very sensitive to input variations) for the $T$-coordinate of the CEP,
whereas, it is well-posed for the $\mu$-coordinate of the CEP. As a
consequence, when the chiral condensate varies in a $10$ MeV range, $\mu_{CEP}$
varies far less.
  As an illustration to understand how problematic this could be, we show that
the main consequence when taking into account finite variation of the inputs,
is that the existence of the CEP itself cannot be predicted anymore: for a
deviation as low as 0.6 \% with respect to vacuum phenomenology (well within
the estimation of the first correction to the ring approximation) the CEP may
or may not exist.