We consider the problem of efficient simulation estimation of the density
function at the tails, and the probability of large deviations for a sum of
independent, identically distributed, light-tailed and non-lattice random
vectors. The latter problem besides being of independent interest, also forms a
building block for more complex rare event problems that arise, for instance,
in queueing and financial credit risk modelling. It has been extensively
studied in literature where state independent exponential twisting based
importance sampling has been shown to be asymptotically efficient and a more
nuanced state dependent exponential twisting has been shown to have a stronger
bounded relative error property. We exploit the saddle-point based
representations that exist for these rare quantities, which rely on inverting
the characteristic functions of the underlying random vectors. These
representations reduce the rare event estimation problem to evaluating certain
integrals, which may via importance sampling be represented as expectations.
Further, it is easy to identify and approximate the zero-variance importance
sampling distribution to estimate these integrals. We identify such importance
sampling measures and show that they possess the asymptotically vanishing
relative error property that is stronger than the bounded relative error
property. To illustrate the broader applicability of the proposed methodology,
we extend it to similarly efficiently estimate the practically important
expected overshoot of sums of iid random variables.