We study the uniform computational content of Ramsey's Theorem in the
Weihrauch lattice. Our central results provide information on how Ramsey's
Theorem behaves under product, parallelization and jumps. From these results we
can derive a number of important properties of Ramsey's Theorem. For one, the
parallelization of Ramsey's Theorem for size $n\geq1$ and an arbitrary finite
number of colors $k\geq2$ is equivalent to the $n$-th jump of Weak K\H{o}nig's
Lemma. In particular, Ramsey's Theorem for size $n\geq1$ is
$\Sigma^0_{n+2}$-measurable in the effective Borel hierarchy, but not
$\Sigma^0_{n+1}$-measurable. Secondly, we obtain interesting lower bounds, for
instance the $n$-th jump of Weak K\H{o}nig's lemma is reducible to (the stable
version of) Ramsey's Theorem of size $n+2$ for $n\geq2$. Another result that
can be derived from our study of products is the fact that with strictly
increasing numbers of colors Ramsey's Theorem forms a strictly increasing chain
in the Weihrauch lattice. Our study of jumps also shows that certain uniform
variants of Ramsey's Theorem play an important role that are indistinguishable
from a non-uniform perspective. For instance, the colored version of Ramsey's
Theorem explicitly includes the color of the homogeneous set as output
information and the jump of this problem (but not the uncolored variant) is
equivalent to the stable version of Ramsey's Theorem of the next larger size.
Finally, we briefly discuss the particular case of Ramsey's Theorem for pairs
and we provide some new separation techniques for problems that involve jumps
in this context. In particular, we study uniform results regarding the relation
of boundedness and induction problems to Ramsey's Theorem and we show that
there are some significant differences to the non-uniform situation in reverse
mathematics.