In this document I develop a weight function theory of positive order basis
function interpolants and smoothers. **In Chapter 1 the basis functions and
data spaces are defined directly using weight functions. The data spaces are
used to formulate the variational problems which define the interpolants and
smoothers discussed in later chapters. The theory is illustrated using some
standard examples of radial basis functions and two classes of weight functions
I will call the tensor product extended B-splines and the central difference
weight functions. **In Chapter 2 I derive modified inverse-Fourier transform
formulas for the basis functions and the data functions (native spaces) and to
use these formulas to obtain bounds for the rates of increase of these
functions and their derivatives near infinity. **Chapter 3 shows how to prove
functions are basis functions without using the awkward space of test functions
$S_{0,n}$ which are infinitely smooth functions of rapid decrease with several
zero-valued derivatives at the origin. Worked examples include several classes
of well-known radial basis functions. **In Chapter 4 we prove the existence and
uniqueness of a solution to the minimal seminorm interpolation problem. We then
derive orders for the pointwise convergence of the interpolant to its data
function as the density of the data increases. **In Chapter 5 a well-known
non-parametric variational smoothing problem will be studied with special
interest in the order of pointwise convergence of the smoother to its data
function. This smoothing problem is the minimal norm interpolation problem
stabilized by a smoothing coefficient. **In Chapter 6 a non-parametric,
scalable, variational smoothing problem will be studied, with special interest
in its order of pointwise convergence to its data function. **In Chapter 7 we
study the bounded linear functionals on the data spaces.