Two mobile agents starting at different nodes of an unknown network have to
meet. This task is known in the literature as rendezvous. Each agent has a
different label which is a positive integer known to it, but unknown to the
other agent. Agents move in an asynchronous way: the speed of agents may vary
and is controlled by an adversary. The cost of a rendezvous algorithm is the
total number of edge traversals by both agents until their meeting. The only
previous deterministic algorithm solving this problem has cost exponential in
the size of the graph and in the larger label. In this paper we present a
deterministic rendezvous algorithm with cost polynomial in the size of the
graph and in the length of the smaller label. Hence we decrease the cost
exponentially in the size of the graph and doubly exponentially in the labels
of agents. As an application of our rendezvous algorithm we solve several
fundamental problems involving teams of unknown size larger than 1 of labeled
agents moving asynchronously in unknown networks. Among them are the following
problems: team size, in which every agent has to find the total number of
agents, leader election, in which all agents have to output the label of a
single agent, perfect renaming in which all agents have to adopt new different
labels from the set {1, . . . , k}, where k is the number of agents, and
gossiping, in which each agent has initially a piece of information (value) and
all agents have to output all the values. Using our rendezvous algorithm we
solve all these problems at cost polynomial in the size of the graph and in the
smallest length of all labels of participating agents.