The main goal of this work consists in showing that the analytic solutions
for a class of characteristic problems for the Einstein vacuum equations have
an existence region larger than the one provided by the Cauchy-Kowalevski
theorem due to the intrinsic hyperbolicity of the Einstein equations. To prove
this result we first describe a geometric way of writing the vacuum Einstein
equations for the characteristic problems we are considering, in a gauge
characterized by the introduction of a double null cone foliation of the
spacetime. Then we prove that the existence region for the analytic solutions
can be extended to a larger region which depends only on the validity of the
apriori estimates for the Weyl equations, associated to the "Bel-Robinson
norms". In particular if the initial data are sufficiently small we show that
the analytic solution is global. Before showing how to extend the existence
region we describe the same result in the case of the Burger equation, which,
even if much simpler, nevertheless requires analogous logical steps required
for the general proof. Due to length of this work, in this paper we mainly
concentrate on the definition of the gauge we use and on writing in a
"geometric" way the Einstein equations, then we show how the Cauchy-Kowalevski
theorem is adapted to the characteristic problem for the Einstein equations and
we describe how the existence region can be extended in the case of the Burger
equation. Finally we describe the structure of the extension proof in the case
of the Einstein equations. The technical parts of this last result is the
content of a second paper.