This dissertation is devoted to the resolution of the Plateau problem in the
case of polygonal boundary curves in three-dimensional Euclidean space. It
relies on the method developed by Ren\'e Garnier and published in 1928 in a
paper which seems today to be totally forgotten. Garnier's approach is more
geometrical and constructive than the variational one, and it provides minimal
disks without branch point. However, it is sometimes really complicated, and
even obscure or incomplete. Following Garnier's initial ideas, we propose a new
proof, which intends not only to be complete, but also simpler and moderner
than his one. This work mainly relies on a systematic use of Fuchsian systems
and on the relation that we establish between the reality of such systems and
their monodromy. Garnier's method is based on the following fact: using the
spinor Weierstrass representation for minimal surfaces, we can associate a real
Fuchsian second-order equation, defined on the Riemann sphere, with each
minimal disk with a polygonal boundary curve. The monodromy of the equation is
determined by the oriented directions of the edges of the boundary. To solve
the Plateau problem, we are thus led to solve a Riemann-Hilbert problem. We
then proceed in two steps: first, by means of isomonodromic deformations, we
construct and describe the family of all minimal disks with a polygonal
boundary curve of given oriented directions. Then we use this description to
study the edges's lengths of their boundary curves, and we show that every
polygon is the boundary of a minimal disk.