Fast accumulation of large amounts of complex data has created a need for
more sophisticated statistical methodologies to discover interesting patterns
and better extract information from these data. The large scale of the data
often results in challenging high-dimensional estimation problems where only a
minority of the data shows specific grouping patterns. To address these
emerging challenges, we develop a new clustering methodology that introduces
the idea of a regularization path into unsupervised learning. A regularization
path for a clustering problem is created by varying the degree of sparsity
constraint that is imposed on the differences between objects via the minimax
concave penalty with adaptive tuning parameters. Instead of providing a single
solution represented by a cluster assignment for each object, the method
produces a short sequence of solutions that determines not only the cluster
assignment but also a corresponding number of clusters for each solution. The
optimization of the penalized loss function is carried out through an MM
algorithm with block coordinate descent. The advantages of this clustering
algorithm compared to other existing methods are as follows: it does not
require the input of the number of clusters; it is capable of simultaneously
separating irrelevant or noisy observations that show no grouping pattern,
which can greatly improve data interpretation; it is a general methodology that
can be applied to many clustering problems. We test this method on various
simulated datasets and on gene expression data, where it shows better or
competitive performance compared against several clustering methods.