In an interference limited network, joint power and admission control (JPAC)
aims at supporting a maximum number of links at their specified signal to
interference plus noise ratio (SINR) targets while using a minimum total
transmission power. Most existing works on JPAC assume the perfect
instantaneous channel state information (CSI). However, in practical wireless
systems, the CSI is prone to errors, and such imperfect CSI can deteriorate the
system performance drastically.In this paper, we consider the JPAC problem with
imperfect CSI, that is, we assume that only the channel distribution
information (CDI) is available. We formulate the JPAC into a chance
(probabilistic) constrained program, where each link's SINR outage probability
is enforced to be less than or equal to a specified tolerance.
  Unfortunately, the chance SINR constraints are computationally intractable
because in general they do not have closed-form expressions and are not convex.
To circumvent such difficulty, we propose to use the sample (scenario)
approximation scheme to convert the chance constraints into finitely many
(depending on the sample size) simple linear constraints. Furthermore, we
reformulate the sample approximation of the chance SINR constrained JPAC
problem as a group sparse minimization problem and then relax it to a
second-order cone program (SOCP). The solution of the SOCP relaxation problem
can be used to check the simultaneous supportability of all links in the
network and to guide an iterative link removal procedure (deflation). Instead
of solving the SOCP with general-purpose solvers like CVX, we exploit its
special structure and custom-design an efficient algorithm for solving it.
Finally, we illustrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed sample
approximation-based deflation approaches by simulations.