Networks are a popular tool for representing elements in a system and their
interconnectedness. Many observed networks can be viewed as only samples of
some true underlying network. Such is frequently the case, for example, in the
monitoring and study of massive, online social networks. We study the problem
of how to estimate the degree distribution - an object of fundamental interest
- of a true underlying network from its sampled network. In particular, we show
that this problem can be formulated as an inverse problem. Playing a key role
in this formulation is a matrix relating the expectation of our sampled degree
distribution to the true underlying degree distribution. Under many network
sampling designs, this matrix can be defined entirely in terms of the design
and is found to be ill-conditioned. As a result, our inverse problem frequently
is ill-posed. Accordingly, we offer a constrained, penalized weighted
least-squares approach to solving this problem. A Monte Carlo variant of
Stein's unbiased risk estimation (SURE) is used to select the penalization
parameter. We explore the behavior of our resulting estimator of network degree
distribution in simulation, using a variety of combinations of network models
and sampling regimes. In addition, we demonstrate the ability of our method to
accurately reconstruct the degree distributions of various sub-communities
within online social networks corresponding to Friendster, Orkut and
LiveJournal. Overall, our results show that the true degree distributions from
both homogeneous and inhomogeneous networks can be recovered with substantially
greater accuracy than reflected in the empirical degree distribution resulting
from the original sampling.