In this paper we consider the circular restricted three body problem which
models the motion of a masless body under the influence of the Newtionan
gravitational force caused by two other bodies, the primaries, which move along
cicular planar Keplerian orbits. In a suitable system of coordinates, this
system has two degrees of freedom and the conserved energy is usually called
the Jacobi constant. In 1980, J. Llibre and C. Sim\'o proved the existence of
oscillatory motions for the restricted planar circular three body problem, that
is, of orbits which leave every bounded region but which return infinitely
often to some fixed bounded region. To prove their existence they had to assume
the ratio between the masses of the two primaries to be exponentially small
with respect to the Jacobi constant. In the present work, we generalize their
work proving the existence of oscillatory motions for any value of the mass
ratio.
  To obtain such motions, we show that, for any value of the mass ratio and for
big values of the Jacobi constant, there exist transversal intersections
between the stable and unstable manifolds of infinity which guarantee the
existence of a symbolic dynamics that creates the oscillatory orbits. The main
achievement is to rigorously prove the existence of these orbits without
assuming the mass ratio small since then this transversality can not be checked
by means of classical perturbation theory respect to the mass ratio. Since our
method is valid for all values of mass ratio, we are able to detect a curve in
the parameter space, formed by the mass ratio and the Jacobi constant, where
cubic homoclinic tangencies between the invariant manifolds of infinity appear.