Anonymous mobile robots are often classified into synchronous,
semi-synchronous and asynchronous robots when discussing the pattern formation
problem. For semi-synchronous robots, all patterns formable with memory are
also formable without memory, with the single exception of forming a point
(i.e., the gathering) by two robots. However, the gathering problem for two
semi-synchronous robots without memory is trivially solvable when their local
coordinate systems are consistent, and the impossibility proof essentially uses
the inconsistencies in their coordinate systems. Motivated by this, this paper
investigates the magnitude of consistency between the local coordinate systems
necessary and sufficient to solve the gathering problem for two oblivious
robots under semi-synchronous and asynchronous models. To discuss the magnitude
of consistency, we assume that each robot is equipped with an unreliable
compass, the bearings of which may deviate from an absolute reference
direction, and that the local coordinate system of each robot is determined by
its compass. We consider two families of unreliable compasses, namely,static
compasses with constant bearings, and dynamic compasses the bearings of which
can change arbitrarily.
  For each of the combinations of robot and compass models, we establish the
condition on deviation \phi that allows an algorithm to solve the gathering
problem, where the deviation is measured by the largest angle formed between
the x-axis of a compass and the reference direction of the global coordinate
system: \phi < \pi/2 for semi-synchronous and asynchronous robots with static
compasses, \phi < \pi/4 for semi-synchronous robots with dynamic compasses, and
\phi < \pi/6 for asynchronous robots with dynamic compasses. Except for
asynchronous robots with dynamic compasses, these sufficient conditions are
also necessary.