Modern text retrieval systems often provide a similarity search utility, that
allows the user to find efficiently a fixed number k of documents in the data
set that are most similar to a given query (here a query is either a simple
sequence of keywords or the identifier of a full document found in previous
searches that is considered of interest). We consider the case of a textual
database made of semi-structured documents. Each field, in turns, is modelled
with a specific vector space. The problem is more complex when we also allow
each such vector space to have an associated user-defined dynamic weight that
influences its contribution to the overall dynamic aggregated and weighted
similarity. This dynamic problem has been tackled in a recent paper by
Singitham et al. in in VLDB 2004. Their proposed solution, which we take as
baseline, is a variant of the cluster-pruning technique that has the potential
for scaling to very large corpora of documents, and is far more efficient than
the naive exhaustive search. We devise an alternative way of embedding weights
in the data structure, coupled with a non-trivial application of a clustering
algorithm based on the furthest point first heuristic for the metric k-center
problem. The validity of our approach is demonstrated experimentally by showing
significant performance improvements over the scheme proposed in Singitham et
al. in VLDB 2004. We improve significantly tradeoffs between query time and
output quality with respect to the baseline method in Singitham et al. in in
VLDB 2004, and also with respect to a novel method by Chierichetti et al. to
appear in ACM PODS 2007. We also speed up the pre-processing time by a factor
at least thirty.