Nonlinear/non-Gaussian filtering has broad applications in many areas of life
sciences where either the dynamic is nonlinear and/or the probability density
function of uncertain state is non-Gaussian. In such problems, the accuracy of
the estimated quantities depends highly upon how accurately their posterior pdf
can be approximated. In low dimensional state spaces, methods based on
Sequential Importance Sampling (SIS) can suitably approximate the posterior
pdf. For higher dimensional problems, however, these techniques are usually
inappropriate since the required number of particles to achieve satisfactory
estimates grows exponentially with the dimension of state space. On the other
hand, ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF) and its variants are more suitable for
large-scale problems due to transformation of particles in the Bayesian update
step. It has been shown that the latter class of methods may lead to suboptimal
solutions for strongly nonlinear problems due to the Gaussian assumption in the
update step. In this paper, we introduce a new technique based on the Gaussian
sum expansion which captures the non-Gaussian features more accurately while
the required computational effort remains within reason for high dimensional
problems. We demonstrate the performance of the method for non-Gaussian
processes through several examples including the strongly nonlinear Lorenz
models. Results show a remarkable improvement in the mean square error compared
to EnKF, and a desirable convergence behavior as the number of particles
increases.