The classical LTL synthesis problem is purely qualitative: the given LTL
specification is realized or not by a reactive system. LTL is not expressive
enough to formalize the correctness of reactive systems with respect to some
quantitative aspects. This paper extends the qualitative LTL synthesis setting
to a quantitative setting. The alphabet of actions is extended with a weight
function ranging over the rational numbers. The value of an infinite word is
the mean-payoff of the weights of its letters. The synthesis problem then
amounts to automatically construct (if possible) a reactive system whose
executions all satisfy a given LTL formula and have mean-payoff values greater
than or equal to some given threshold. The latter problem is called LTLMP
synthesis and the LTLMP realizability problem asks to check whether such a
system exists. We first show that LTLMP realizability is not more difficult
than LTL realizability: it is 2ExpTime-Complete. This is done by reduction to
two-player mean-payoff parity games. While infinite memory strategies are
required to realize LTLMP specifications in general, we show that
epsilon-optimality can be obtained with finite memory strategies, for any
epsilon > 0. To obtain an efficient algorithm in practice, we define a
Safraless procedure to decide whether there exists a finite-memory strategy
that realizes a given specification for some given threshold. This procedure is
based on a reduction to two-player energy safety games which are in turn
reduced to safety games. Finally, we show that those safety games can be solved
efficiently by exploiting the structure of their state spaces and by using
antichains as a symbolic data-structure. All our results extend to
multi-dimensional weights. We have implemented an antichain-based procedure and
we report on some promising experimental results.