A framework which combines Green's function (GF) methods and techniques from
the theory of stochastic processes is proposed for tackling nonlinear evolution
problems. The framework, established by a series of easy-to-derive equivalences
between Green's function and stochastic representative solutions of linear
drift-diffusion problems, provides a flexible structure within which nonlinear
evolution problems can be analyzed and physically probed. As a preliminary test
bed, two canonical, nonlinear evolution problems - Burgers' equation and the
nonlinear Schrodinger's equation - are first treated. In the first case, the
framework provides a rigorous, probabilistic derivation of the well known
Cole-Hopf ansatz. Likewise, in the second, the machinery allows systematic
recovery of a known soliton solution. The framework is then applied to a fairly
extensive exploration of physical features underlying evolution of randomly
stretched and advected Burger's vortex sheets. Here, the governing vorticity
equation corresponds to the Fokker-Planck equation of an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck
process, a correspondence that motivates an investigation of sub-sheet
vorticity evolution and organization. Under the assumption that weak
hydrodynamic fluctuations organize disordered, near-molecular-scale, sub-sheet
vorticity, it is shown that these modes consist of two weakly damped
counter-propagating cross-sheet acoustic modes, a diffusive cross-sheet shear
mode, and a diffusive cross-sheet entropy mode. Once a consistent picture of
in-sheet vorticity evolution is established, a number of analytical results,
describing the motion and spread of single, multiple, and continuous sets of
Burger's vortex sheets, evolving within deterministic and random strain rate
fields, under both viscous and inviscid conditions, are obtained.