In this paper, we present near-optimal space bounds for Lp-samplers. Given a
stream of updates (additions and subtraction) to the coordinates of an
underlying vector x \in R^n, a perfect Lp sampler outputs the i-th coordinate
with probability |x_i|^p/||x||_p^p. In SODA 2010, Monemizadeh and Woodruff
showed polylog space upper bounds for approximate Lp-samplers and demonstrated
various applications of them. Very recently, Andoni, Krauthgamer and Onak
improved the upper bounds and gave a O(\epsilon^{-p} log^3 n) space \epsilon
relative error and constant failure rate Lp-sampler for p \in [1,2]. In this
work, we give another such algorithm requiring only O(\epsilon^{-p} log^2 n)
space for p \in (1,2). For p \in (0,1), our space bound is O(\epsilon^{-1}
log^2 n), while for the $p=1$ case we have an O(log(1/\epsilon)\epsilon^{-1}
log^2 n) space algorithm. We also give a O(log^2 n) bits zero relative error
L0-sampler, improving the O(log^3 n) bits algorithm due to Frahling, Indyk and
Sohler.
  As an application of our samplers, we give better upper bounds for the
problem of finding duplicates in data streams. In case the length of the stream
is longer than the alphabet size, L1 sampling gives us an O(log^2 n) space
algorithm, thus improving the previous O(log^3 n) bound due to Gopalan and
Radhakrishnan.
  In the second part of our work, we prove an Omega(log^2 n) lower bound for
sampling from 0, \pm 1 vectors (in this special case, the parameter p is not
relevant for Lp sampling). This matches the space of our sampling algorithms
for constant \epsilon > 0. We also prove tight space lower bounds for the
finding duplicates and heavy hitters problems. We obtain these lower bounds
using reductions from the communication complexity problem augmented indexing.