In spite of the extensive studies of the 3-coloring problem with respect to
several basic parameters, the complexity status of the 3-coloring problem on
graphs with small diameter, i.e. with diameter 2 or 3, has been a longstanding
and challenging open question. For graphs with diameter 2 we provide the first
subexponential algorithm with complexity $2^{O(\sqrt{n\log n})}$, which is
asymptotically the same as the currently best known time complexity for the
graph isomorphism (GI) problem. Moreover, we prove that the graph isomorphism
problem on 3-colorable graphs with diameter 2 is GI-complete. Furthermore we
present a subclass of graphs with diameter 2 that admits a polynomial algorithm
for 3-coloring. For graphs with diameter 3 we establish the complexity of
3-coloring by proving that for every $\varepsilon \in [0,1)$, 3-coloring is
NP-complete on triangle-free graphs of diameter 3 and radius 2 with $n$
vertices and minimum degree $\delta=\Theta(n^{\varepsilon})$. Moreover,
assuming ETH, we provide three different amplifications of our hardness results
to obtain for every $\varepsilon \in [0,1)$ subexponential lower bounds for the
complexity of 3-coloring on triangle-free graphs with diameter 3 and minimum
degree $\delta=\Theta(n^{\varepsilon})$. Finally, we provide a 3-coloring
algorithm with running time
$2^{O(\min\{\delta\Delta,\frac{n}{\delta}\log\delta\})}$ for graphs with
diameter 3, where $\delta$ (resp. $\Delta $) is the minimum (resp. maximum)
degree of the input graph. To the best of our knowledge, this algorithm is the
first subexponential algorithm for graphs with $\delta=\omega(1)$ and for
graphs with $\delta=O(1)$ and $\Delta=o(n)$. Due to the above lower bounds of
the complexity of 3-coloring, the running time of this algorithm is
asymptotically almost tight when the minimum degree if the input graph is
$\delta=\Theta(n^{\varepsilon})$, where $\varepsilon \in [1/2,1)$.