Radio polarimetry at decimetre wavelengths is the principal source of
information on the Galactic magnetic field. The diffuse polarized emission is
strongly influenced by Faraday rotation in the magneto-ionic medium and
rotation measure is the prime quantity of interest, implying that all Stokes
parameters must be measured over wide frequency bands with many frequency
channels. The DRAO 26-m Telescope has been equipped with a wideband feed, a
polarization transducer to deliver both hands of circular polarization, and a
receiver, all operating from 1277 to 1762 MHz. Half-power beamwidth is between
40 and 30 arcminutes. A digital FPGA spectrometer, based on commercially
available components, produces all Stokes parameters in 2048 frequency channels
over a 485-MHz bandwidth. Signals are digitized to 8 bits and a Fast Fourier
Transform is applied to each data stream. Stokes parameters are then generated
in each frequency channel. This instrument is in use at DRAO for a Northern sky
polarization survey. Observations consist of scans up and down the Meridian at
a drive rate of 0.9 degree per minute to give complete coverage of the sky
between declinations -30 degree and 90 degree. This paper presents a complete
description of the receiver and data acquisition system. Only a small fraction
of the frequency band of operation is allocated for radio astronomy, and about
20 percent of the data are lost to interference. The first 8 percent of data
from the survey are used for a proof-of-concept study, which has led to the
first application of Rotation Measure Synthesis to the diffuse Galactic
emission obtained with a single-antenna telescope. We find rotation measure
values for the diffuse emission as high as approximately 100 rad per square
metre, much higher than recorded in earlier work.