The use of orthogonal signaling schemes such as time-, frequency-, or
code-division multiplexing (T-, F-, CDM) in multi-user systems allows for
power-efficient simple receivers. It is shown in this paper that by using
orthogonal signaling on frequency selective fading channels, the cooperative
Nash bargaining (NB)-based precoding games for multi-user systems, which aim at
maximizing the information rates of all users, are simplified to the
corresponding cooperative resource allocation games. The latter provides
additional practically desired simplifications to transmitter design and
significantly reduces the overhead during user cooperation. The complexity of
the corresponding precoding/resource allocation games, however, depends on the
constraints imposed on the users. If only spectral mask constraints are
present, the corresponding cooperative NB problem can be formulated as a convex
optimization problem and solved efficiently in a distributed manner using dual
decomposition based algorithm. However, the NB problem is non-convex if total
power constraints are also imposed on the users. In this case, the complexity
associate with finding the NB solution is unacceptably high. Therefore, the
multi-user systems are categorized into bandwidth- and power-dominant based on
a bottleneck resource, and different manners of cooperation are developed for
each type of systems for the case of two-users. Such classification guarantees
that the solution obtained in each case is Pareto-optimal and actually can be
identical to the optimal solution, while the complexity is significantly
reduced. Simulation results demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed
cooperative precoding/resource allocation strategies and the reduced complexity
of the proposed algorithms.