Recent proliferation of embedded systems has generated a bold new paradigm,
known as open embedded systems. While traditional embedded systems provide only
closed base applications (natively-installed software) to users, open embedded
systems allow the users to freely execute open applications
(additionally-installed software) in order to meet various user requirements,
such as user personalization and device coordination. Key to the success of
platforms required for open embedded systems is the achievement of both the
scalable extension of base applications and the secure execution of open
applications. Most existing platforms, however, have focused on either scalable
or secure execution, limiting their applicability. This dissertation presents a
new secure platform using multi-core processors, which achieves both
scalability and security. Four techniques feature the new platform: (1)
seamless communication, by which legacy applications designed for a single
processor make it possible to be executed on multiple processors without any
software modifications; (2) secure processor partitioning with hardware
support, by which Operating Systems (OSs) required for base and open
applications are securely executed on separate processors; (3) asymmetric
virtualization, by which many OSs over the number of processors are securely
executed under secure processor partitioning; and (4) secure dynamic
partitioning, by which the number of processors allocated to individual OSs
makes it possible to be dynamically changed under secure processor
partitioning.