The classical Hermitian eigenvalue problem addresses the following question:
What are the possible eigenvalues of the sum A+B of two Hermitian matrices A
and B, provided we fix the eigenvalues of A and B. A systematic study of this
problem was initiated by H. Weyl (1912). By virtue of contributions from a long
list of mathematicians, notably Weyl (1912), Horn (1962), Klyachko (1998) and
Knutson-Tao (1999), the problem is finally settled. The solution asserts that
the eigenvalues of A+B are given in terms of certain system of linear
inequalities in the eigenvalues of A and B. These inequalities are given
explicitly in terms of certain triples of Schubert classes in the singular
cohomology of Grassmannians and the standard cup product. Belkale (2001) gave
an optimal set of inequalities for the problem in this case. The Hermitian
eigenvalue problem has been extended by Berenstein-Sjamaar (2000) and
Kapovich-Leeb-Millson (2005) for any semisimple complex algebraic group G.
Their solution is again in terms of a system of linear inequalities obtained
from certain triples of Schubert classes in the singular cohomology of the
partial flag varieties G/P (P being a maximal parabolic subgroup) and the
standard cup product. However, their solution is far from being optimal. In a
joint work with P. Belkale, we define a deformation of the cup product in the
cohomology of G/P and use this new product to generate our system of
inequalities which solves the problem for any G optimally (as shown by
Ressayre). This article is a survey (with more or less complete proofs) of this
additive eigenvalue problem.