Integer least-squares problems, concerned with solving a system of equations
where the components of the unknown vector are integer-valued, arise in a wide
range of applications. In many scenarios the unknown vector is sparse, i.e., a
large fraction of its entries are zero. Examples include applications in
wireless communications, digital fingerprinting, and array-comparative genomic
hybridization systems. Sphere decoding, commonly used for solving integer
least-squares problems, can utilize the knowledge about sparsity of the unknown
vector to perform computationally efficient search for the solution. In this
paper, we formulate and analyze the sparsity-aware sphere decoding algorithm
that imposes $\ell_0$-norm constraint on the admissible solution. Analytical
expressions for the expected complexity of the algorithm for alphabets typical
of sparse channel estimation and source allocation applications are derived and
validated through extensive simulations. The results demonstrate superior
performance and speed of sparsity-aware sphere decoder compared to the
conventional sparsity-unaware sphere decoding algorithm. Moreover, variance of
the complexity of the sparsity-aware sphere decoding algorithm for binary
alphabets is derived. The search space of the proposed algorithm can be further
reduced by imposing lower bounds on the value of the objective function. The
algorithm is modified to allow for such a lower bounding technique and
simulations illustrating efficacy of the method are presented. Performance of
the algorithm is demonstrated in an application to sparse channel estimation,
where it is shown that sparsity-aware sphere decoder performs close to
theoretical lower limits.