A Rayleigh fading spatially correlated broadcast setting with M = 2 antennas
at the transmitter and two-users (each with a single antenna) is considered. It
is assumed that the users have perfect channel information about their links
whereas the transmitter has only statistical information of each user's link
(covariance matrix of the vector channel). A low-complexity linear beamforming
strategy that allocates equal power and one spatial eigen-mode to each user is
employed at the transmitter. Beamforming vectors on the Grassmann manifold that
depend only on statistical information are to be designed at the transmitter to
maximize the ergodic sum-rate delivered to the two users. Towards this goal,
the beamforming vectors are first fixed and a closed-form expression is
obtained for the ergodic sum-rate in terms of the covariance matrices of the
links. This expression is non-convex in the beamforming vectors ensuring that
the classical Lagrange multiplier technique is not applicable. Despite this
difficulty, the optimal solution to this problem is shown to be the solution to
the maximization of an appropriately-defined average signal-to-interference and
noise ratio (SINR) metric for each user. This solution is the dominant
generalized eigenvector of a pair of positive-definite matrices where the first
matrix is the covariance matrix of the forward link and the second is an
appropriately-designed "effective" interference covariance matrix. In this
sense, our work is a generalization of optimal signalling along the dominant
eigen-mode of the transmit covariance matrix in the single-user case. Finally,
the ergodic sum-rate for the general broadcast setting with M antennas at the
transmitter and M-users (each with a single antenna) is obtained in terms of
the covariance matrices of the links and the beamforming vectors.