We consider the problem of resource allocation and control of multihop
networks in which multiple source-destination pairs communicate confidential
messages, to be kept confidential from the intermediate nodes. We pose the
problem as that of network utility maximization, into which confidentiality is
incorporated as an additional quality of service constraint. We develop a
simple, and yet provably optimal dynamic control algorithm that combines flow
control, routing and end-to-end secrecy-encoding. In order to achieve
confidentiality, our scheme exploits multipath diversity and temporal diversity
due to channel variability. Our end-to-end dynamic encoding scheme encodes
confidential messages across multiple packets, to be combined at the ultimate
destination for recovery. We first develop an optimal dynamic policy for the
case in which the number of blocks across which secrecy encoding is performed
is asymptotically large. Next, we consider encoding across a finite number of
packets, which eliminates the possibility of achieving perfect secrecy. For
this case, we develop a dynamic policy to choose the encoding rates for each
message, based on the instantaneous channel state information, queue states and
secrecy outage requirements. By numerical analysis, we observe that the
proposed scheme approaches the optimal rates asymptotically with increasing
block size. Finally, we address the consequences of practical implementation
issues such as infrequent queue updates and de-centralized scheduling. We
demonstrate the efficacy of our policies by numerical studies under various
network conditions.