This paper investigates the performance of an orthogonal frequency-division
multiplexing (OFDM)-based cognitive radio (CR) spectrum sharing communication
system that assumes random allocation and absence of the primary user's (PU)
channel occupation information, i.e., no spectrum sensing is employed to
acquire information about the availability of unused subcarriers. In case of a
single secondary user (SU) in the secondary network, due to the lack of
information of PUs' activities, the SU randomly allocates the subcarriers of
the primary network and collide with the PUs' subcarriers with a certain
probability. To maintain the quality of service (QoS) requirement of PUs, the
interference that SU causes onto PUs is controlled by adjusting SU's transmit
power below a predefined threshold, referred to as interference temperature. In
this work, the average capacity of SU with subcarrier collisions is employed as
performance measure to investigate the proposed random allocation scheme for
both general and Rayleigh channel fading models. Bounds and scaling laws of
average capacity with respect to the number of SU's, PUs' and available
subcarriers are derived. In addition, in the presence of multiple SUs, the
multiuser diversity gain of SUs assuming an opportunistic scheduling is also
investigated. To avoid the interference at the SUs that might be caused by the
random allocation scheme and obtain the maximum sum rate for SUs based on the
available subcarriers, an efficient centralized sequential algorithm based on
the opportunistic scheduling and random allocation (utilization) methods is
proposed to ensure the orthogonality of assigned subcarriers.