Public agencies like the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) and the
National Institutes of Health (NIH) award tens of billions of dollars in annual
science funding. How can this money be distributed as efficiently as possible
to best promote scientific innovation and productivity? The present system
relies primarily on peer review of project proposals. In 2010 alone, NSF
convened more than 15,000 scientists to review 55,542 proposals. Although
considered the scientific gold standard, peer review requires significant
overhead costs, and may be subject to biases, inconsistencies, and oversights.
We investigate a class of funding models in which all participants receive an
equal portion of yearly funding, but are then required to anonymously donate a
fraction of their funding to peers. The funding thus flows from one participant
to the next, each acting as if he or she were a funding agency themselves. Here
we show through a simulation conducted over large-scale citation data (37M
articles, 770M citations) that such a distributed system for science may yield
funding patterns similar to existing NIH and NSF distributions, but may do so
at much lower overhead while exhibiting a range of other desirable features.
Self-correcting mechanisms in scientific peer evaluation can yield an efficient
and fair distribution of funding. The proposed model can be applied in many
situations in which top-down or bottom-up allocation of public resources is
either impractical or undesirable, e.g. public investments, distribution
chains, and shared resource management.