In this paper, we consider physical layer security provisioning in multi-cell
massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems. Specifically, we
consider secure downlink transmission in a multi-cell massive MIMO system with
matched-filter precoding and artificial noise (AN) generation at the base
station (BS) in the presence of a passive multi-antenna eavesdropper. We
investigate the resulting achievable ergodic secrecy rate and the secrecy
outage probability for the cases of perfect training and pilot contamination.
Thereby, we consider two different AN shaping matrices, namely, the
conventional AN shaping matrix, where the AN is transmitted in the null space
of the matrix formed by all user channels, and a random AN shaping matrix,
which avoids the complexity associated with finding the null space of a large
matrix. Our analytical and numerical results reveal that in multi-cell massive
MIMO systems employing matched-filter precoding (1) AN generation is required
to achieve a positive ergodic secrecy rate if the user and the eavesdropper
experience the same path-loss, (2) even with AN generation secure transmission
may not be possible if the number of eavesdropper antennas is too large and not
enough power is allocated to channel estimation, (3) for a given fraction of
power allocated to AN and a given number of users, in case of pilot
contamination, the ergodic secrecy rate is not a monotonically increasing
function of the number of BS antennas, and (4) random AN shaping matrices
provide a favourable performance/complexity tradeoff and are an attractive
alternative to conventional AN shaping matrices.