Tolerance graphs model interval relations in such a way that intervals can
tolerate a certain amount of overlap without being in conflict. In one of the
most natural generalizations of tolerance graphs with direct applications in
the comparison of DNA sequences from different organisms, namely
\emph{multitolerance} graphs, two tolerances are allowed for each interval -
one from the left and one from the right side. Several efficient algorithms for
optimization problems that are NP-hard in general graphs have been designed for
tolerance and multitolerance graphs. In spite of this progress, the complexity
status of some fundamental algorithmic problems on tolerance and multitolerance
graphs, such as the \emph{dominating set} problem, remained unresolved until
now, three decades after the introduction of tolerance graphs. In this article
we introduce two new geometric representations for tolerance and multitolerance
graphs, given by points and line segments in the plane. Apart from being
important on their own, these new representations prove to be a powerful tool
for deriving both hardness results and polynomial time algorithms. Using them,
we surprisingly prove that the dominating set problem can be solved in
polynomial time on tolerance graphs and that it is APX-hard on multitolerance
graphs, solving thus a longstanding open problem. This problem is the first one
that has been discovered with a different complexity status in these two graph
classes. Furthermore we present an algorithm that solves the independent
dominating set problem on multitolerance graphs in polynomial time, thus
demonstrating the potential of this new representation for further exploitation
via sweep line algorithms.