Subspace-based signal processing has a rich history in the literature.
Traditional focus in this direction has been on problems involving a few
subspaces. But a number of problems in different application areas have emerged
in recent years that involve significantly larger number of subspaces relative
to the ambient dimension. It becomes imperative in such settings to first
identify a smaller set of active subspaces that contribute to the observations
before further information processing tasks can be carried out. We term this
problem of identification of a small set of active subspaces among a huge
collection of subspaces from a single (noisy) observation in the ambient space
as subspace unmixing. In this paper, we formally pose the subspace unmixing
problem, discuss its connections with problems in wireless communications,
hyperspectral imaging, high-dimensional statistics and compressed sensing, and
propose and analyze a low-complexity algorithm, termed marginal subspace
detection (MSD), for subspace unmixing. The MSD algorithm turns the subspace
unmixing problem into a multiple hypothesis testing (MHT) problem and our
analysis helps control the family-wise error rate of this MHT problem at any
level. Some other highlights of our analysis of the MSD algorithm include: (i)
it is applicable to an arbitrary collection of subspaces on the Grassmann
manifold; (ii) it relies on properties of the collection of subspaces that are
computable in polynomial time; and (iii) it allows for linear scaling of the
number of active subspaces as a function of the ambient dimension. Finally, we
also present numerical results in the paper to better understand the
performance of the MSD algorithm.