New imaging techniques are in great demand for investigating underground
plant roots systems which play an important role in crop production. Compared
with other non-destructive imaging modalities, PET can image plant roots in
natural soil and produce dynamic 3D functional images which reveal the temporal
dynamics of plant-environment interactions. In this study, we combined PET with
optical projection tomography (OPT) to evaluate its potential for plant root
phenotyping. We used a dedicated high resolution plant PET imager that has a 14
cm transaxial and 10 cm axial field of views, and multi-bed imaging capability.
The image resolution is around 1.25 mm using ML-EM reconstruction algorithm.
B73 inbred maize seeds were germinated and then grown in a sealed jar with
transparent gel-based media. PET scanning started on the day when the first
green leaf appeared, and was carried out once a day for 5 days. Each morning,
around 10 mCi of 11CO2 was administrated into a custom built plant labeling
chamber. After 10 minutes, residual activity was flushed out with fresh air
before a 2-h PET scan started. For the OPT imaging, the jar was placed inside
an acrylic cubic container filled with water, illuminated with a uniform
surface light source, and imaged by a DSLR camera from 72 angles to acquire
optical images for OPT reconstruction. The same plant was imaged 3 times a day
by the OPT system. Plant roots growth is measured from the optical images.
Co-registered PET and optical images indicate that most of the hot spots
appeared in later time points of the PET images correspond to the most actively
growing root tips. The strong linear correlation between 11C allocation at root
tips measured by PET and eventual root growth measured by OPT suggests that we
can use PET as a phenotyping tool to measure how a plant makes subterranean
carbon allocation decisions in different environmental scenarios.