Wireless social community networks (WSCNs) is an emerging technology that
operate in the unlicensed spectrum and have been created as an alternative to
cellular wireless networks for providing low-cost, high speed wireless data
access in urban areas. WSCNs is an upcoming idea that is starting to gain
attention amongst the civilian Internet users. By using \emph{special} WiFi
routers that are provided by a social community network provider (SCNP), users
can effectively share their connection with the neighborhood in return for some
monthly monetary benefits. However, deployment maps of existing WSCNs reflect
their slow progress in capturing the WiFi router market. In this paper, we look
at a router design and cost sharing problem in WSCNs to improve deployment. We
devise asimple to implement, successful a mechanism is successful if it
achieves its intended purpose. For example in this work, a successful mechanism
would help install routers in a locality}, \emph{budget-balanced},
\emph{ex-post efficient}, and \emph{individually rational} {a mechanism is
individually rational if the benefit each agent obtains is greater than its
cost.} auction-based mechanism that generates the \emph{optimal} number of
features a router should have and allocates costs to residential users in
\emph{proportion} to the feature benefits they receive. Our problem is
important to a new-entrant SCNP when it wants to design its multi-feature
routers with the goal to popularize them and increase their deployment in a
residential locality. Our proposed mechanism accounts for heterogeneous user
preferences towards different router features and comes up with the optimal
\emph{(feature-set, user costs)} router blueprint that satisfies each user in a
locality, in turn motivating them to buy routers and thereby improve
deployment.