In this paper, we consider the distributive queue-aware power and subband
allocation design for a delay-optimal OFDMA uplink system with one base
station, $K$ users and $N_F$ independent subbands. Each mobile has an uplink
queue with heterogeneous packet arrivals and delay requirements. We model the
problem as an infinite horizon average reward Markov Decision Problem (MDP)
where the control actions are functions of the instantaneous Channel State
Information (CSI) as well as the joint Queue State Information (QSI). To
address the distributive requirement and the issue of exponential memory
requirement and computational complexity, we approximate the subband allocation
Q-factor by the sum of the per-user subband allocation Q-factor and derive a
distributive online stochastic learning algorithm to estimate the per-user
Q-factor and the Lagrange multipliers (LM) simultaneously and determine the
control actions using an auction mechanism. We show that under the proposed
auction mechanism, the distributive online learning converges almost surely
(with probability 1). For illustration, we apply the proposed distributive
stochastic learning framework to an application example with exponential packet
size distribution. We show that the delay-optimal power control has the {\em
multi-level water-filling} structure where the CSI determines the instantaneous
power allocation and the QSI determines the water-level. The proposed algorithm
has linear signaling overhead and computational complexity $\mathcal O(KN)$,
which is desirable from an implementation perspective.