Simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) has recently
drawn significant interests for its dual use of radio signals to provide
wireless data and energy access at the same time. However, a challenging
secrecy communication issue arises as the messages sent to the information
receivers (IRs) may be eavesdropped by the energy receivers (ERs), which are
presumed to harvest energy only from the received signals. To tackle this
problem, we propose in this paper an artificial noise (AN) aided transmission
scheme to facilitate the secrecy information transmission to IRs and yet meet
the energy harvesting requirement for ERs, under the assumption that the AN can
be cancelled at IRs but not at ERs. Specifically, the proposed scheme splits
the transmit power into two parts, to send the confidential message to the IR
and an AN to interfere with the ER, respectively. Under a simplified three-node
wiretap channel setup, the transmit power allocations and power splitting
ratios over fading channels are jointly optimized to minimize the outage
probability for delay-limited secrecy information transmission, or to maximize
the average rate for no-delay-limited secrecy information transmission, subject
to a combination of average and peak power constraints at the transmitter as
well as an average energy harvesting constraint at the ER. Both the secrecy
outage probability minimization and average rate maximization problems are
shown to be non-convex, for each of which we propose the optimal solution based
on the dual decomposition as well as suboptimal solution based on the
alternating optimization. Furthermore, two benchmark schemes are introduced for
comparison. Finally, the performances of proposed schemes are evaluated by
simulations in terms of various trade-offs for wireless (secrecy) information
versus energy transmissions.