This paper deals with the problem of efficient resource allocation in dynamic
infrastructureless wireless networks. Assuming a reactive interference-limited
scenario, each transmitter is allowed to select one frequency channel (from a
common pool) together with a power level at each transmission trial; hence, for
all transmitters, not only the fading gain, but also the number of interfering
transmissions and their transmit powers are varying over time. Due to the
absence of a central controller and time-varying network characteristics, it is
highly inefficient for transmitters to acquire global channel and network
knowledge. Therefore a reasonable assumption is that transmitters have no
knowledge of fading gains, interference, and network topology. Each
transmitting node selfishly aims at maximizing its average reward (or
minimizing its average cost), which is a function of the action of that
specific transmitter as well as those of all other transmitters. This scenario
is modeled as a multi-player multi-armed adversarial bandit game, in which
multiple players receive an a priori unknown reward with an arbitrarily
time-varying distribution by sequentially pulling an arm, selected from a known
and finite set of arms. Since players do not know the arm with the highest
average reward in advance, they attempt to minimize their so-called regret,
determined by the set of players' actions, while attempting to achieve
equilibrium in some sense. To this end, we design in this paper two joint power
level and channel selection strategies. We prove that the gap between the
average reward achieved by our approaches and that based on the best fixed
strategy converges to zero asymptotically. Moreover, the empirical joint
frequencies of the game converge to the set of correlated equilibria. We
further characterize this set for two special cases of our designed game.