We design a framework for truthful double multi-channel spectrum auctions
where each seller (or buyer) can sell (or buy) multiple spectrum channels based
on their individual needs. Open, market-based spectrum trading motivates
existing spectrum owners (as sellers) to lease their selected idle spectrum
channels to new spectrum users (as buyers) who need the spectrum desperately.
The most significant requirement is how to make the auction economic-robust
(truthful in particular) while enabling spectrum reuse to improve spectrum
utilization. Additionally, in practice, both sellers and buyers would require
to trade multiple channels at one time, while guaranteeing their individual
profitability. Unfortunately, none of the existing designs can meet all these
requirements simultaneously. We address these requirements by proposing
True-MCSA, a framework for truthful double multi-channel spectrum auctions.
True-MCSA takes as input any reusability-driven spectrum allocation algorithm,
introduces novel virtual buyer group (VBG) splitting and bidding algorithms,
and applies a winner determination and pricing mechanism to achieve
truthfulness and other economic properties while improving spectrum utilization
and successfully dealing with multi-channel requests from both buyers and
sellers. Our results show that the auction efficiency is impacted by the
economic factors with efficiency degradations within 30%, under different
experimental settings. Furthermore, the experimental results indicate that we
can improve the auction efficiency by choosing a proper bidding algorithm and
using a base bid. True-MCSA makes an important contribution on enabling
spectrum reuse to improve auction efficiency in multi-channel cases.