As wireless communication becomes an ever-more evolving and pervasive part of
the existing world, system capacity and Quality of Service (QoS) provisioning
are becoming more critically evident. In order to improve system capacity and
QoS, it is mandatory that we pay closer attention to operational bandwidth
efficiency issues. We address this issue for two operators' spectrum sharing in
the same geographical area.
  We model and analyze interactions between the competitive operators
coexisting in the same frequency band as a strategic noncooperative game, where
the operators simultaneously share the spectrum dynamically as per their
relative requirement. If resources are allocated in a conventional way (static
orthogonal allocation), spectrum utilization becomes inefficient when there is
load asymmetry between the operators and low inter-operator interference.
  Theoretically, operators can share resources in a cooperative manner, but
pragmatically they are reluctant to reveal their network information to
competitors. By using game theory, we design a distributed implementation, in
which self-interested operators play strategies and contend for the spectrum
resources in a noncooperative manner. We have proposed two game theoretic
approaches in the thesis, one using a virtual carrier price; and the other
based on a mutual history of favors. The former approach takes into account a
penalty proportional to spectrum usage in its utility function, whereas in the
latter, operators play strategies based on their history of interactions, i.e.,
how well the other behaved in the past. Finally, based on the simulations, we
assess the performance of the proposed game theoretic approaches in comparison
to existing conventional allocations.