This article describes the software engineering framework and computation
performance of a global climate system model which helps the user to understand
the step-by-step technical to DIY(do it yourself) a climate model by your own.
The model integrates ECHAM5 and NEMO2.3 using OASIS3 as the coupler. The
program skill of the Integrated global Climate Model (ICM) is demonstrated
here, including the porting of NEMO into the COSMOS framework, the organization
of variable exchange, and component model communication synchronization. We
describe how we successfully fixed some bugs in the component models and detail
the new code and scripts that were added to ICM. In particular, an improvement
of ICM's coding is that we enabled it to perform perfect restart runs, which is
an important feature that was not implemented in the original version of
NEMO2.3. ICM is designed as a model hybrid for both research and operational
applications. Its scripts manage and utilize numerical simulations including
data preparation, namelist file control, CPU allocation, job submission, job
restarting, post-data combination and plotting. ICM is now successfully set up
and runs at Dawning in the CMSR and the Tianhe-1A supercomputer system in the
National Supercomputer Center in Tianjin, and the speed benchmark has been
obtained. Results indicate that it can simulate the climate at more than 100
model years per day (maximum of 175 yrs/d), which represent a high level of
performance for a fully coupled climate model. Finally, a summary of the
1500-year long-term control experiment using ICM is provided.