Network MIMO is considered to be a key solution for the next generation
wireless systems in breaking the interference bottleneck in cellular systems.
In the MIMO systems, open-loop transmission scheme is used to support mobile
stations (MSs) with high mobilities because the base stations (BSs) do not need
to track the fast varying channel fading. In this paper, we consider an
open-loop network MIMO system with $K$ BSs serving K private MSs and $M^c$
common MS based on a novel partial cooperation overlaying scheme. Exploiting
the heterogeneous path gains between the private MSs and the common MSs, each
of the $K$ BSs serves a private MS non-cooperatively and the $K$ BSs also serve
the $M^c$ common MSs cooperatively. The proposed scheme does not require closed
loop instantaneous channel state information feedback, which is highly
desirable for high mobility users. Furthermore, we formulate the long-term
distributive power allocation problem between the private MSs and the common
MSs at each of the $K$ BSs using a partial cooperative game. We show that the
long-term power allocation game has a unique Nash Equilibrium (NE) but standard
best response update may not always converge to the NE. As a result, we propose
a low-complexity distributive long-term power allocation algorithm which only
relies on the local long-term channel statistics and has provable convergence
property. Through numerical simulations, we show that the proposed open-loop
SDMA scheme with long-term distributive power allocation can achieve
significant performance advantages over the other reference baseline schemes.