To understand the origin of the magnetic fields in massive stars as well as
their impact on stellar internal structure, evolution, and circumstellar
environment, within the MiMeS project, we searched for magnetic objects among a
large sample of massive stars, and build a sub-sample for in-depth follow-up
studies required to test the models and theories of fossil field origins,
magnetic wind confinement and magnetospheric properties, and magnetic star
evolution.
  We obtained high-resolution spectropolarimetric observations of a large
number of OB stars thanks to three large programs that have been allocated on
the high-resolution spectropolarimeters ESPaDOnS, Narval, and the polarimetric
module HARPSpol of the HARPS spectrograph. We report here on the methods and
first analysis of the HARPSpol magnetic detections. We identified the magnetic
stars using a multi-line analysis technique. Then, when possible, we monitored
the new discoveries to derive their rotation periods, which are critical for
follow-up and magnetic mapping studies. We also performed a first-look analysis
of their spectra and identified obvious spectral anomalies (e.g., abundance
peculiarities, Halpha emission), which are also of interest for future studies.
  In this paper, we focus on eight of the 11 stars in which we discovered or
confirmed a magnetic field from the HARPSpol LP sample (the remaining three
were published in a previous paper). Seven of the stars were detected in
early-type Bp stars, while the last star was detected in the Ap companion of a
normal early B-type star. We report obvious spectral and multiplicity
properties, as well as our measurements of their longitudinal field strengths,
and their rotation periods when we are able to derive them. We also discuss the
presence or absence of Halpha emission with respect to the theory of
centrifugally-supported magnetospheres. (Abriged)