The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is a large (6.6m), cold (50K),
infrared-optimized space observatory that will be launched early in the next
decade. The observatory will have four instruments: a near-infrared camera, a
near-infrared multi-object spectrograph, and a tunable filter imager will cover
the wavelength range, 0.6 to 5.0 microns, while the mid-infrared instrument
will do both imaging and spectroscopy from 5.0 to 29 microns. The JWST science
goals are divided into four themes. The End of the Dark Ages: First Light and
Reionization theme seeks to identify the first luminous sources to form and to
determine the ionization history of the early universe. The Assembly of
Galaxies theme seeks to determine how galaxies and the dark matter, gas, stars,
metals, morphological structures, and active nuclei within them evolved from
the epoch of reionization to the present day. The Birth of Stars and
Protoplanetary Systems theme seeks to unravel the birth and early evolution of
stars, from infall on to dust-enshrouded protostars to the genesis of planetary
systems. The Planetary Systems and the Origins of Life theme seeks to determine
the physical and chemical properties of planetary systems including our own,
and investigate the potential for the origins of life in those systems. To
enable these observations, JWST consists of a telescope, an instrument package,
a spacecraft and a sunshield. The telescope consists of 18 beryllium segments,
some of which are deployed. The segments will be brought into optical alignment
on-orbit through a process of periodic wavefront sensing and control. The JWST
operations plan is based on that used for previous space observatories, and the
majority of JWST observing time will be allocated to the international
astronomical community through annual peer-reviewed proposal opportunities.