We consider a system in which two users communicate with a destination with
the help of a half-duplex relay. Based on the compute-and-forward scheme, we
develop and evaluate the performance of coding strategies that are of network
coding spirit. In this framework, instead of decoding the users' information
messages, the destination decodes two integer-valued linear combinations that
relate the transmitted codewords. Two decoding schemes are considered. In the
first one, the relay computes one of the linear combinations and then forwards
it to the destination. The destination computes the other linear combination
based on the direct transmissions. In the second one, accounting for the side
information available at the destination through the direct links, the relay
compresses what it gets using Wyner-Ziv compression and conveys it to the
destination. The destination then computes the two linear combinations,
locally. For both coding schemes, we discuss the design criteria, and derive
the allowed symmetric-rate. Next, we address the power allocation and the
selection of the integer-valued coefficients to maximize the offered
symmetric-rate; an iterative coordinate descent method is proposed. The
analysis shows that the first scheme can outperform standard relaying
techniques in certain regimes, and the second scheme, while relying on feasible
structured lattice codes, can at best achieve the same performance as regular
compress-and-forward for the multiaccess relay network model that we study. The
results are illustrated through some numerical examples.