This paper considers orthogonal frequency division multiple access systems
with simultaneous wireless information and power transfer.
  We study the resource allocation algorithm design for maximization of the
energy efficiency of data transmission. In particular, we focus on power
splitting hybrid receivers which are able to split the received signals into
two power streams for concurrent information decoding and energy harvesting.
Two scenarios are investigated considering different power splitting abilities
of the receivers. In the first scenario, we assume receivers which can split
the received power into a continuous set of power streams with arbitrary power
splitting ratios. In the second scenario, we examine receivers which can split
the received power only into a discrete set of power streams with fixed power
splitting ratios. In both scenarios, we formulate the corresponding algorithm
design as a non-convex optimization problem which takes into account the
circuit power consumption, the minimum data rate requirements of delay
constrained services, the minimum required system data rate, and the minimum
amount of power that has to be delivered to the receivers. Subsequently, by
exploiting fractional programming and dual decomposition, suboptimal iterative
resource allocation algorithms are proposed to solve the non-convex problems.
Simulation results illustrate that the proposed iterative resource allocation
algorithms approach the optimal solution within a small number of iterations
and unveil the trade-off between energy efficiency, system capacity, and
wireless power transfer.