We show that any submodular minimization (SM) problem defined on a linear
constraint set with constraints having up to two variables per inequality, are
2-approximable in polynomial time. If the constraints are monotone (the two
variables appear with opposite sign coefficients) then the problems of
submodular minimization or supermodular maximization are polynomial time
solvable. The key idea is to link these problems to a submodular s,t-cut
problem defined here. This framework includes the problems: SM-vertex cover;
SM-2SAT; SM-min satisfiability; SM-edge deletion for clique, SM-node deletion
for biclique and others. We also introduce here the submodular closure problem
and and show that it is solvable in polynomial time and equivalent to the
submodular cut problem. All the results are extendible to multi-sets where each
element of a set may appear with a multiplicity greater than 1. For all these
NP-hard problems 2-approximations are the best possible in the sense that a
better approximation factor cannot be achieved in polynomial time unless NP=P.
The mechanism creates a relaxed "monotone" problem, solved as a submodular
closure problem, the solution to which is mapped to a half integral
super-optimal solution to the original problem. That half-integral solution has
the persistency property meaning that integer valued variables retain their
value in an optimal solution. This permits to delete the integer valued
variables, and restrict the search of an optimal solution to the smaller set of
remaining variables.