A common objective in mechanism design is to choose the outcome (for example,
allocation of resources) that maximizes the sum of the agents' valuations,
without introducing incentives for agents to misreport their preferences. The
class of Groves mechanisms achieves this; however, these mechanisms require the
agents to make payments, thereby reducing the agents' total welfare.
  In this paper we introduce a measure for comparing two mechanisms with
respect to the final welfare they generate. This measure induces a partial
order on mechanisms and we study the question of finding minimal elements with
respect to this partial order. In particular, we say a non-deficit Groves
mechanism is welfare undominated if there exists no other non-deficit Groves
mechanism that always has a smaller or equal sum of payments. We focus on two
domains: (i) auctions with multiple identical units and unit-demand bidders,
and (ii) mechanisms for public project problems. In the first domain we
analytically characterize all welfare undominated Groves mechanisms that are
anonymous and have linear payment functions, by showing that the family of
optimal-in-expectation linear redistribution mechanisms, which were introduced
in [6] and include the Bailey-Cavallo mechanism [1,2], coincides with the
family of welfare undominated Groves mechanisms that are anonymous and linear
in the setting we study. In the second domain we show that the classic VCG
(Clarke) mechanism is welfare undominated for the class of public project
problems with equal participation costs, but is not undominated for a more
general class.