We initiate the study of an interesting aspect of sponsored search
advertising, namely the consequences of broad match-a feature where an ad of an
advertiser can be mapped to a broader range of relevant queries, and not
necessarily to the particular keyword(s) that ad is associated with. Starting
with a very natural setting for strategies available to the advertisers, and
via a careful look through the algorithmic lens, we first propose solution
concepts for the game originating from the strategic behavior of advertisers as
they try to optimize their budget allocation across various keywords. Next, we
consider two broad match scenarios based on factors such as information
asymmetry between advertisers and the auctioneer, and the extent of
auctioneer's control on the budget splitting. In the first scenario, the
advertisers have the full information about broad match and relevant
parameters, and can reapportion their own budgets to utilize the extra
information; in particular, the auctioneer has no direct control over budget
splitting. We show that, the same broad match may lead to different equilibria,
one leading to a revenue improvement, whereas another to a revenue loss. This
leaves the auctioneer in a dilemma - whether to broad-match or not. This
motivates us to consider another broad match scenario, where the advertisers
have information only about the current scenario, and the allocation of the
budgets unspent in the current scenario is in the control of the auctioneer. We
observe that the auctioneer can always improve his revenue by judiciously using
broad match. Thus, information seems to be a double-edged sword for the
auctioneer.