In wireless networks, the transmission rate of a link is determined by
received signal strength, interference from simultaneous transmissions, and
available coding-modulation schemes. Rate allocation is a key problem in
wireless network design, but a very challenging problem because: (i) wireless
interference is global, i.e., a transmission interferes all other simultaneous
transmissions, and (ii) the rate-power relation is non-convex and
non-continuous, where the discontinuity is due to limited number of
coding-modulation choices in practical systems. In this paper, we propose a
distributed power control and coding-modulation adaptation algorithm using
annealed Gibbs sampling, which achieves throughput optimality in an arbitrary
network topology. We consider a realistic
Signal-to-Interference-and-Noise-Ratio (SINR) based interference model, and
assume continuous power space and finite rate options (coding-modulation
choices). Our algorithm first decomposes network-wide interference to local
interference by properly choosing a "neighborhood" for each transmitter and
bounding the interference from non-neighbor nodes. The power update policy is
then carefully designed to emulate a Gibbs sampler over a Markov chain with a
continuous state space. We further exploit the technique of simulated annealing
to speed up the convergence of the algorithm to the optimal power and
coding-modulation configuration. Finally, simulation results demonstrate the
superior performance of the proposed algorithm.