This paper studies the joint user association and resource allocation in
heterogeneous networks (HetNets) from a novel perspective, motivated by and
generating the idea of fractional frequency reuse. By treating the multi-cell
multi-user resource allocation as resource partitioning among multiple reuse
patterns, we propose a unified framework to analyze and compare a wide range of
user association and resource allocation strategies for HetNets, and provide a
benchmark of ultimate limit on network performance. The enabling mechanisms are
a novel formulation to consider all possible patterns or any pre-defined subset
of patterns and an efficient sparsity-pursuit algorithm. More importantly, in
view of the fact that multi-cell resource allocation is very computational
demanding, our framework provides a systematic way to trade off performance for
the reduction of computational complexity by restricting the candidate patterns
to a small number of feature patterns. Relying on the sparsity-pursuit
capability of the proposed algorithm, we develop practical guideline to
identify the feature patterns in the given HetNet. Our treatment is very
general in that it covers the case where users are allowed to associate with
multiple base stations and the more restrictive situation where the number of
serving base stations for each user is limited to one or a given number.
Numerical results show that the identified feature patterns can significantly
improve the existing strategies, and jointly optimizing the user association
and resource allocation indeed brings considerable gain.