We consider a source-destination pair assisted by parallel regenerative
decode-and-forward relays operating in orthogonal channels. We investigate
distributed power allocation strategies for this system with limited channel
state information at the source and the relay nodes. We first propose a
distributed decision mechanism for each relay to individually make its decision
on whether to forward the source data. The decision mechanism calls for each
relay that is able to decode the information from the source to compare its
relay-to-destination channel gain with a given threshold. We identify the
optimum distributed power allocation strategy that minimizes the total transmit
power while providing a target signal-to-noise ratio at the destination with a
target outage probability. The strategy dictates the optimum choices for the
source power as well as the threshold value at the relays. Next, we consider
two simpler distributed power allocation strategies, namely the passive source
model where the source power and the relay threshold are fixed, and the single
relay model where only one relay is allowed to forward the source data. These
models are motivated by limitations on the available channel state information
as well as ease of implementation as compared to the optimum distributed
strategy. Simulation results are presented to demonstrate the performance of
the proposed distributed power allocation schemes. Specifically, we observe
significant power savings with proposed methods as compared to random relay
selection.