Second-generation (2G) digital cellular systems constitute the majority of
cellular communication deployed today. A variety of services of 2G systems has
increased significantly and this will continue to grow even further in the
emerging third-generation (3G) systems. Universal Mobile Telecommunication
System (UMTS) is a third-generation mobile communications system which uses the
Wide-Band Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) technique to support a wide
variety of services, like speech, video telephony, Internet browsing, etc.
These services require a wide range of Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.
QoS is an important issue as the number of multimedia services increases day by
day. Differentiated QoS methods allow the differentiation of users based on
their priority levels and channel conditions so that the network can allocate
the bandwidth for a particular request based on the QoS requirements. These
requirements are controlled by Radio Resource Management (RRM) mechanisms. In
this paper we have proposed two RRM algorithms which are modification to the
existing scheduling algorithms. One is Prioritized C/I scheduling, which takes
the priorities into consideration, and this algorithm serves the user with
highest priority. Other algorithm is Modified Inverse C/I scheduling, which
takes channel conditions into consideration and serves the users in degraded
conditions, thereby improving QoS. The performance evaluation of two algorithms
is done with EURANE extensions for NS-2. Simulation results shows the
improvement in QoS for the users who are at equidistance from Base Station (BS)
but requesting for different services by implementing Prioritized C/I
scheduling and also for the users who are in degraded conditions by
implementing Modified Inverse C/I scheduling when compared to Max C/I and
Inverse C/I scheduling algorithm respectively.