Poverty maps are used to aid important political decisions such as allocation
of development funds by governments and international organizations. Those
decisions should be based on the most accurate poverty figures. However, often
reliable poverty figures are not available at fine geographical levels or for
particular risk population subgroups due to the sample size limitation of
current national surveys. These surveys cannot cover adequately all the desired
areas or population subgroups and, therefore, models relating the different
areas are needed to 'borrow strength" from area to area. In particular, the
Spanish Survey on Income and Living Conditions (SILC) produces national poverty
estimates but cannot provide poverty estimates by Spanish provinces due to the
poor precision of direct estimates, which use only the province specific data.
It also raises the ethical question of whether poverty is more severe for women
than for men in a given province. We develop a hierarchical Bayes (HB) approach
for poverty mapping in Spanish provinces by gender that overcomes the small
province sample size problem of the SILC. The proposed approach has a wide
scope of application because it can be used to estimate general nonlinear
parameters. We use a Bayesian version of the nested error regression model in
which Markov chain Monte Carlo procedures and the convergence monitoring
therein are avoided. A simulation study reveals good frequentist properties of
the HB approach. The resulting poverty maps indicate that poverty, both in
frequency and intensity, is localized mostly in the southern and western
provinces and it is more acute for women than for men in most of the provinces.