Recent multiwavelength observations of PKS 0208-512 by SMARTS, Fermi, and
Swift revealed that gamma-ray and optical light curves of this flat spectrum
radio quasars are highly correlated, but with an exception of one large optical
flare having no corresponding gamma-ray activity or even detection. On the
other hand, recent advances in SNRs observations and plasma simulations both
reveal that magnetic field downstream of astrophysical shocks can be largely
amplified beyond simple shock compression. These amplifications, along with
their associated particle acceleration, might contribute to blazar flares,
including the peculiar flare of PKS 0208-512. Using our time dependent
multizone blazar emission code, we evaluate several scenarios that may
represent such phenomena. This code combines Monte Carlo method that tracks the
radiative processes including inverse Compton scattering, and Fokker-Planck
equation that follows the cooling and acceleration of particles. It is a
comprehensive time dependent code that fully takes into account the light
travel time effects. In this study, both the changes of the magnetic field and
acceleration efficiency are explored as the cause of blazar flares. Under these
assumption, synchrotron self-Compton and external Compton scenarios produce
distinct features that favor the external Compton scenario. The optical flares
with/without gamma-ray counterparts can be explained by different allocations
of energy between the magnetization and particle acceleration, which in turn
can be affected by the relative orientation between the magnetic field and the
shock flow. We compare the details of the observations and simulation, and
highlight what implications this study has on our understanding of relativistic
jets.