We consider a tournament among four equally strong semifinalists. The players
have to decide how much stamina to use in the semifinals, provided that the
rest is available in the final and the third-place playoff. We investigate
optimal strategies for allocating stamina to the successive matches when
players' prizes (payoffs) are given according to the tournament results. From
the basic assumption that the probability to win a match follows a
nondecreasing function of stamina difference, we present symmetric Nash
equilibria for general payoff structures. We find three different phases of the
Nash equilibria in the payoff space. First, when the champion wins a much
bigger payoff than the others, any pure strategy can constitute a Nash
equilibrium as long as all four players adopt it in common. Second, when the
first two places are much more valuable than the other two, the only Nash
equilibrium is such that everyone uses a pure strategy investing all stamina in
the semifinal. Third, when the payoff for last place is much smaller than the
others, a Nash equilibrium is formed when every player adopts a mixed strategy
of using all or none of its stamina in the semifinals. In a limiting case that
only last place pays the penalty, this mixed-strategy profile can be proved to
be a unique symmetric Nash equilibrium, at least when the winning probability
follows a Heaviside step function. Moreover, by using this Heaviside step
function, we study the tournament by using evolutionary replicator dynamics to
obtain analytic solutions, which reproduces the corresponding Nash equilibria
on the population level and gives information on dynamic aspects.