The pervasiveness and availability of mobile phone data offer the opportunity
of discovering usable knowledge about crowd behaviors in urban environments.
Cities can leverage such knowledge in order to provide better services (e.g.,
public transport planning, optimized resource allocation) and safer cities.
Call Detail Record (CDR) data represents a practical data source to detect and
monitor unusual events considering the high level of mobile phone penetration,
compared with GPS equipped and open devices. In this paper, we provide a
methodology that is able to detect unusual events from CDR data that typically
has low accuracy in terms of space and time resolution. Moreover, we introduce
a concept of unusual event that involves a large amount of people who expose an
unusual mobility behavior. Our careful consideration of the issues that come
from coarse-grained CDR data ultimately leads to a completely general framework
that can detect unusual crowd events from CDR data effectively and efficiently.
Through extensive experiments on real-world CDR data for a large city in
Africa, we demonstrate that our method can detect unusual events with 16%
higher recall and over 10 times higher precision, compared to state-of-the-art
methods. We implement a visual analytics prototype system to help end users
analyze detected unusual crowd events to best suit different application
scenarios. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on the
detection of unusual events from CDR data with considerations of its temporal
and spatial sparseness and distinction between user unusual activities and
daily routines.