We study social welfare in one-sided matching markets where the goal is to
efficiently allocate n items to n agents that each have a complete, private
preference list and a unit demand over the items. Our focus is on allocation
mechanisms that do not involve any monetary payments. We consider two natural
measures of social welfare: the ordinal welfare factor which measures the
number of agents that are at least as happy as in some unknown, arbitrary
benchmark allocation, and the linear welfare factor which assumes an agent's
utility linearly decreases down his preference lists, and measures the total
utility to that achieved by an optimal allocation. We analyze two matching
mechanisms which have been extensively studied by economists. The first
mechanism is the random serial dictatorship (RSD) where agents are ordered in
accordance with a randomly chosen permutation, and are successively allocated
their best choice among the unallocated items. The second mechanism is the
probabilistic serial (PS) mechanism of Bogomolnaia and Moulin [8], which
computes a fractional allocation that can be expressed as a convex combination
of integral allocations. The welfare factor of a mechanism is the infimum over
all instances. For RSD, we show that the ordinal welfare factor is
asymptotically 1/2, while the linear welfare factor lies in the interval [.526,
2/3]. For PS, we show that the ordinal welfare factor is also 1/2 while the
linear welfare factor is roughly 2/3. To our knowledge, these results are the
first non-trivial performance guarantees for these natural mechanisms.