Cloud computing technology is an emerging new computing paradigm for
delivering computing services. Although it still in its early stage, it has
changed the way how many applications are developed and accessed. This
computing approach relies on a number of existing technologies, such as Web2.0,
virtualization, Service oriented architecture SOA, Web services,etc.Cloud
computing is growing rapidly and becoming an adoptable technology for the
organizations especially education institutes, with its dynamic scalability and
usage of virtualized resources as a service through the Internet.Today,
eLearning is also becoming a very popular and powerful trend.However,in
traditional web based eLearning systems,building and maintenance are located
onsite in institutions or enterprises, which cause lot of problems to appear
such as lacking the support of underlying infrastructure, which can dynamically
allocate the needed calculation and storage resources for eLearning systems.As
the need for e learning is increasing continuously and its necessary for
eLearning systems to keep pace with the right technology needed for development
and improvement.However, todays technologies such as Web 2.0, Cloud, etc.enable
to build more successful and effective educational environment,that provide
collaboration and interaction in eLearning environments.The challenge is to use
and integrate these technologies in order to construct tools that allow the
best possible learning results.Cloud computing and Web 2.0 are two areas that
are starting to strongly effect how the development,deployment and usage of
eLearning application.This paper presents the benefits of using cloud computing
with the integration of Web 2.0 collaboration technologies in eLearning
environment.