We develop a framework to optimize the tradeoff between diversity,
multiplexing, and delay in MIMO systems to minimize end-to-end distortion. We
first focus on the diversity-multiplexing tradeoff in MIMO systems, and develop
analytical results to minimize distortion of a vector quantizer concatenated
with a space-time MIMO channel code. In the high SNR regime we obtain a
closed-form expression for the end-to-end distortion as a function of the
optimal point on the diversity-multiplexing tradeoff curve. For large but
finite SNR we find this optimal point via convex optimization. We then consider
MIMO systems using ARQ retransmission to provide additional diversity at the
expense of delay. For sources without a delay constraint, distortion is
minimized by maximizing the ARQ window size. This results in an ARQ-enhanced
multiplexing-diversity tradeoff region, with distortion minimized over this
region in the same manner as without ARQ. Under a source delay constraint the
problem formulation changes to account for delay distortion associated with
random message arrival and random ARQ completion times. We use a dynamic
programming formulation to capture the channel diversity-multiplexing tradeoff
at finite SNR as well as the random arrival and retransmission dynamics; we
solve for the optimal multiplexing-diversity-delay tradeoff to minimize
end-to-end distortion associated with the source encoder, channel, and ARQ
retransmissions. Our results show that a delay-sensitive system should adapt
its operating point on the diversity-multiplexing-delay tradeoff region to the
system dynamics. We provide numerical results that demonstrate significant
performance gains of this adaptive policy over a static allocation of
diversity/multiplexing in the channel code and a static ARQ window size.