In this paper, a Stackelberg game is built to model the hierarchic power
allocation of primary user (PU) network and secondary user (SU) network in
OFDM-based cognitive radio (CR) networks. We formulate the PU and the SUs as
the leader and the followers, respectively. We consider two constraints: the
total power constraint and the interference-to-signal ratio (ISR) constraint,
in which the ratio between the accumulated interference and the received signal
power at each PU should not exceed certain threshold. Firstly, we focus on the
single-PU and multi-SU scenario. Based on the analysis of the Stackelberg
Equilibrium (SE) for the proposed Stackelberg game, an analytical hierarchic
power allocation method is proposed when the PU can acquire the additional
information to anticipate SUs' reaction. The analytical algorithm has two
steps: 1) The PU optimizes its power allocation with considering the reaction
of SUs to its action. In the power optimization of the PU, there is a sub-game
for power allocation of SUs given fixed transmit power of the PU. The existence
and uniqueness for the Nash Equilibrium (NE) of the sub-game are investigated.
We also propose an iterative algorithm to obtain the NE, and derive the
closed-form solutions of NE for the perfectly symmetric channel. 2) The SUs
allocate the power according to the NE of the sub-game given PU's optimal power
allocation. Furthermore, we design two distributed iterative algorithms for the
general channel even when private information of the SUs is unavailable at the
PU. The first iterative algorithm has a guaranteed convergence performance, and
the second iterative algorithm employs asynchronous power update to improve
time efficiency. Finally, we extend to the multi-PU and multi-SU scenario, and
a distributed iterative algorithm is presented.