In this paper, we consider a down-link transmission of multicell virtualized
wireless networks (VWNs) where users of different service providers (slices)
within a specific region are served by a set of base stations (BSs) through
orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA). In particular, we
develop a joint BS assignment, sub-carrier and power allocation algorithm to
maximize the network throughput, while satisfying the minimum required rate of
each slice. Under the assumption that each user at each transmission instance
can connect to no more than one BS, we introduce the user-association factor
(UAF) to represent the joint sub-carrier and BS assignment as the optimization
variable vector in the mathematical problem formulation. Sub-carrier reuse is
allowed in different cells, but not within one cell. As the proposed
optimization problem is inherently non-convex and NP-hard, by applying the
successive convex approximation (SCA) and complementary geometric programming
(CGP), we develop an efficient two-step iterative approach with low
computational complexity to solve the proposed problem. For a given
power-allocation, Step 1 derives the optimum userassociation and subsequently,
for an obtained user-association, Step 2 find the optimum power-allocation.
Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed iterative algorithm
outperforms the traditional approach in which each user is assigned to the BS
with the largest average value of signal strength, and then, joint sub-carrier
and power allocation is obtained for the assigned users of each cell.
Especially, for the cell-edge users, simulation results reveal a coverage
improvement up to 57% and 71% for uniform and non-uniform users distribution,
respectively leading to more reliable transmission and higher spectrum
efficiency for VWN.