Standard Collaborative Filtering (CF) algorithms make use of interactions
between users and items in the form of implicit or explicit ratings alone for
generating recommendations. Similarity among users or items is calculated
purely based on rating overlap in this case,without considering explicit
properties of users or items involved, limiting their applicability in domains
with very sparse rating spaces. In many domains such as movies, news or
electronic commerce recommenders, considerable contextual data in text form
describing item properties is available along with the rating data, which could
be utilized to improve recommendation quality.In this paper, we propose a novel
approach to improve standard CF based recommenders by utilizing latent
Dirichlet allocation (LDA) to learn latent properties of items, expressed in
terms of topic proportions, derived from their textual description. We infer
user's topic preferences or persona in the same latent space,based on her
historical ratings. While computing similarity between users, we make use of a
combined similarity measure involving rating overlap as well as similarity in
the latent topic space. This approach alleviates sparsity problem as it allows
calculation of similarity between users even if they have not rated any items
in common. Our experiments on multiple public datasets indicate that the
proposed hybrid approach significantly outperforms standard user Based and item
Based CF recommenders in terms of classification accuracy metrics such as
precision, recall and f-measure.