Emergence of sophisticated technologies in IT industries has posed several
challenges such as production of products using advanced technical process for
instance Result Orientation Approach, Deployment, Assessment and Refinement
(RADAR) in a dynamic and competitive environment. The key challenge for any
engineer is therefore to develop process and products which ultimately lead
towards total customer satisfaction. Recent development in technology has
driven most of the IT industries to operate in the cloud environment due to
reduced infrastructure investment and maintenance overheads. However, existing
process in cloud lacks efficient multiple service paradigms that can provide
improved business gain. Thus, it is the responsibility of every engineer to
contribute towards effective and efficient techniques and models that can
enhance the business performance. The position of this paper is to present
several major issues prevailing in the IT industries such as delay time,
response time, performance etc., which call for immediate attention in order to
position themselves in the market. Further, this paper provides improved
strategies through efficient job scheduling and modified resource allocation
techniques for aforementioned issues in order to enhance the business
performance in cloud-based IT sectors. The simulated results provided in this
paper indicate the impact of enhanced solutions incorporated in the job
processing strategies. They further enable better performance of the cloud with
reduced delay and response time resulting towards improved throughput.
Subsequently, it increases the job acceptance ratio with respect to time and
thereby leading the industry to accomplish total customer satisfaction in
addition to the continued sustainability in the competitive business market.