Universities and Institutions these days' deals with issues related to with
assessment of large number of students. Various evaluation methods have been
adopted by examiners in different institutions to examining the ability of an
individual, starting from manual means of using paper and pencil to electronic,
from oral to written, practical to theoretical and many others. There is a need
to expedite the process of examination in order to meet the increasing
enrolment of students at the universities and institutes. Sip Based Mass Mobile
Examination System (SiBMMES) expedites the examination process by automating
various activities in an examination such as exam paper setting, Scheduling and
allocating examination time and evaluation (auto-grading for objective
questions) etc. SiBMMES uses the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) that is an IP
communications framework providing an environment for the rapid development of
innovative and reusable services Session Initial Protocol (SIP) is a signalling
(request-response) protocol for this architecture and it is used for
establishing sessions in an IP network, making it an ideal candidate for
supporting terminal mobility in the IMS to deliver the services, with the
extended services available in IMS like open APIs, common network services,
Quality of Services (QoS) like multiple sessions per call, Push to Talk etc
often requiring multiple types of media (including voice, video, pictures, and
text). SiBMMES is an effective solution for mass education evaluation using
mobile and web technology. In this paper, a novel hybrid component based
development (CBD) model is proposed for SiBMMES. A Component based Hybrid Model
is selected to the fact that IMS takes the concept of layered architecture one
step further by defining a horizontal architecture where service enablers and
common functions can be reused for multiple applications.