This paper addresses the optimal design of limited-feedback downlink
multi-user spatial multiplexing systems. A multiple-antenna base-station is
assumed to serve multiple single-antenna users, who quantize and feed back
their channel state information (CSI) through a shared rate-limited feedback
channel. The optimization problem is cast in the form of minimizing the average
transmission power at the base-station subject to users' target
signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratios (SINR) and outage probability
constraints. The goal is to derive the feedback bit allocations among the users
and the corresponding channel magnitude and direction quantization codebooks in
a high-resolution quantization regime. Toward this end, this paper develops an
optimization framework using approximate analytical closed-form solutions, the
accuracy of which is then verified by numerical results. The results show that,
for channels in the real space, the number of channel direction quantization
bits should be $(M-1)$ times the number of channel magnitude quantization bits,
where $M$ is the number of base-station antennas. Moreover, users with higher
requested quality-of-service (QoS), i.e. lower target outage probabilities, and
higher requested downlink rates, i.e. higher target SINR's, should use larger
shares of the feedback rate. It is also shown that, for the target QoS
parameters to be feasible, the total feedback bandwidth should scale
logarithmically with the geometric mean of the target SINR values and the
geometric mean of the inverse target outage probabilities. In particular, the
minimum required feedback rate is shown to increase if the users' target
parameters deviate from the corresponding geometric means. Finally, the paper
shows that, as the total number of feedback bits $B$ increases, the performance
of the limited-feedback system approaches the perfect-CSI system as
${2^{-{B}/{M^2}}}$.