The problem of joint downlink cell association (CA) and wireless backhaul
bandwidth allocation (WBBA) in two-tier cellular heterogeneous networks
(HetNets) is considered. Large-scale antenna array is implemented at the macro
base station (BS), while the small cells within the macro cell range are
single-antenna BSs and they rely on over-the-air links to the macro BS for
backhauling. A sum logarithmic user rate maximization problem is investigated
considering wireless backhauling constraints. A duplex and spectrum sharing
scheme based on co-channel reverse time-division duplex (TDD) and dynamic soft
frequency reuse (SFR) is proposed for interference management in two-tier
HetNets with large-scale antenna arrays at the macro BS and wireless
backhauling for small cells. Two in-band WBBA scenarios, namely, unified
bandwidth allocation and per-small-cell bandwidth allocation scenarios, are
investigated for joint CA-WBBA in the HetNet. A two-level hierarchical
decomposition method for relaxed optimization is employed to solve the
mixed-integer nonlinear program (MINLP). Solutions based on the General
Algorithm Modeling System (GAMS) optimization solver and fast heuristics are
also proposed for cell association in the per-small-cell WBBA scenario. It is
shown that when all small cells have to use in-band wireless backhaul, the
system load has more impact on both the sum log-rate and per-user rate
performance than the number of small cells deployed within the macro cell
range. The proposed joint CA-WBBA algorithms have an optimal load approximately
equal to the size of the large-scale antenna array at the macro BS. The cell
range expansion (CRE) strategy, which is an efficient cell association scheme
for HetNets with perfect backhauling, is shown to be inefficient when in-band
wireless backhauling for small cells comes into play.