Several contributors modelled networks ad hoc by oriented or disoriented graphs,
whereby the problem of allowance (allocation) of the frequencies at the level
of the network was transformed into coloring problem of nodes in the graph.
Graph coloring is a tool to characterize the graphs. In our study, we were
interested in particular in the coloring of vertex. In this domain, a large
number of parameters of coloring were defined. A coloring for which two
neighboring summits do not have same color is called proper coloring. We
proposed to evaluate two other parameters vertex coloring maximizing the number
of colors to use: b-chromatic number and especially the number of Grundy. These
studies have focused on two types of graphs, which are the powers graphs and
Cartesian sum of graphs. In the first part, we determined borders among Grundy
for the Cartesian sum of graphs and finally we proposed algorithms for the
coloration of graphs. First of all, we gave some properties and results for
simple graphs (stable, chain, cycle, full, star, bipartisan). Secondly, we
studied the Cartesian sum of two graphs by giving exact values of the number of
Grundy for diverse classes of graphs (sum of a chain and a chain, a chain and a
cycle, a cycle and a cycle) then we estimated borders of this parameter for the
sum of a complete graph and any other graph. In the second part, we presented
the results of the Cartesian sum of several graphs and in the last part; we
also gave an algorithm for generating graphs with a given number of Grundy.
Thereafter, we studied another parameter namely the partial coloring Grundy.
The properties of this parameter are close to those of total Grundy. Finally,
we used parameters of coloring total Grundy and partial Grundy to generate
algorithms of coloring of graphs. We proposed algorithms of coloring basing on
the properties of certain graphs.