This research examines relationship between staging of Venture Capital (VC)
investments and social feedback visible in publicly available data on the Web.
We address the question of Venture Capital investment sensitivity to
performance and prospects of new venture, given as likelihood of obtaining
future financing, available exit options and duration between investment
rounds. We argue that in the case of Internet companies, publicly available
social feedback data, such as search trends and website traffic information,
can be used as a proxy for some of company's internal metrics such as user base
growth and product adoption. In order to answer questions of interest, we
compile unique dataset consisting of detailed information about Venture Capital
investments in the Internet Technology sector over the period from 2004 to 2012
and associated longitudinal search trend and website traffic data. By applying
methods of survival analysis, we find that positive trends in search and
website traffic volumes can lead to increased likelihood of future financing
and shortening of duration between subsequent financing rounds. We also find
evidence that social feedback only impacts company's ability to attract next
round of financing or exit via IPO, while M&A exits seem relatively independent
of such performance metrics and can occur at any stage of company development.
Such findings provide strong evidence in support of learning hypothesis and
suggest VC's ability to identify prospects of new venture early in it's
development and allocate funding accordingly. Given research also provides
methodological contributions to the problem of evaluating the prospects of new
startup companies using only publicly available data, and as such should be of
interest in applications such as new investment screening and industry-level
assessments by analysts or policy makers.