To reduce global biodiversity loss, there is an urgent need to determine the
most efficient allocation of conservation resources. Recently, there has been a
growing trend for many governments to supplement public ownership and
management of reserves with incentive programs for conservation on private
land. At the same time, policies to promote conservation on private land are
rarely evaluated in terms of their ecological consequences. This raises
important questions, such as the extent to which private land conservation can
improve conservation outcomes, and how it should be mixed with more traditional
public land conservation. We address these questions, using a general framework
for modelling environmental policies and a case study examining the
conservation of endangered native grasslands to the west of Melbourne,
Australia. Specifically, we examine three policies that involve: i) spending
all resources on creating public conservation areas; ii) spending all resources
on an ongoing incentive program where private landholders are paid to manage
vegetation on their property with 5-year contracts; and iii) splitting
resources between these two approaches. The performance of each strategy is
quantified with a vegetation condition change model that predicts future
changes in grassland quality. Of the policies tested, no one policy was always
best and policy performance depended on the objectives of those enacting the
policy. This work demonstrates a general method for evaluating environmental
policies and highlights the utility of a model which combines ecological and
socioeconomic processes.