We present Simulated Annealing fiber-to-target allocation simulations for the
proposed DESI and 4MOST massively multiplexed spectroscopic surveys, and for
both Poisson and realistically clustered mock target samples. We simulate both
Echidna and theta-phi actuator designs, including the restrictions caused by
the physical actuator characteristics during repositioning.
  For DESI, with theta-phi actuators, used in 5 passes over the sky for a mock
ELG/LRG/QSO sample, with matched fiber and target densities, a total target
allocation yield of 89.3% was achieved, but only 83.7% for the high-priority
Ly-alpha QSOs. If Echidna actuators are used with the same pitch and number of
passes, the yield increases by 5.7% and 16% respectively. Echidna also allows a
factor-of-two increase in the number of close Ly-alpha QSO pairs that can be
observed.
  Echidna spine tilt causes a variable loss of throughput, with average loss
being the same as the loss at the rms tilt. With a natural tilt minimization
scheme, we find an rms tilt always close to 0.58 x maximum. There is an
additional but much smaller defocus loss, equivalent to an average defocus of
30microns. These tilt losses offset the gains in yield for Echidna, but because
the survey strategy is driven by the higher priority targets, a clear survey
speed advantage remains.
  For 4MOST, high and low latitude sample mock catalogs were supplied by the
4MOST team, and allocations were carried out with the proposed Echidna-based
positioner geometry. At high latitudes, the resulting target completeness was
85.3% for LR targets and 78.9% for HR targets. At low latitude, the target
completeness was 93.9% for LR targets and 71.2% for HR targets.