Cloud computing is a technological advancement in the arena of computing and
has taken the utility vision of computing a step further by providing computing
resources such as network, storage, compute capacity and servers, as a service
via an internet connection. These services are provided to the users in a pay
per use manner subjected to the amount of usage of these resources by the cloud
users. Since the usage of these resources is done in an elastic manner thus an
on demand provisioning of these resources is the driving force behind the
entire cloud computing infrastructure therefore the maintenance of these
resources is a decisive task that must be taken into account. Eventually,
infrastructure level performance monitoring and enhancement is also important.
This paper proposes a framework for allocation of resources in a cloud based
environment thereby leading to an infrastructure level enhancement of
performance in a cloud environment. The framework is divided into four stages
Stage 1: Cloud service provider monitors the infrastructure level pattern of
usage of resources and behavior of the cloud users. Stage 2: Report the
monitoring activities about the usage to cloud service providers. Stage 3:
Apply proposed Network Bandwidth Dependent DMMM algorithm .Stage 4: Allocate
resources or provide services to cloud users, thereby leading to infrastructure
level performance enhancement and efficient management of resources. Analysis
of resource usage pattern is considered as an important factor for proper
allocation of resources by the service providers, in this paper Google cluster
trace has been used for accessing the resource usage pattern in cloud.
Experiments have been conducted on cloudsim simulation framework and the
results reveal that NBDMMM algorithm improvises allocation of resources in a
virtualized cloud.