In this paper, we investigate effective capacity by modeling a cognitive
radio broadcast channel with one secondary transmitter (ST) and two secondary
receivers (SRs) under quality-of-service constraints and interference power
limitations. We initially describe three different cooperative channel sensing
strategies with different hard-decision combining algorithms at the ST, namely
OR, Majority, and AND rules. Since the channel sensing occurs with possible
errors, we consider a combined interference power constraint by which the
transmission power of the secondary users (SUs) is bounded when the channel is
sensed as both busy and idle. Furthermore, regarding the channel sensing
decision and its correctness, there exist possibly four different transmission
scenarios. We provide the instantaneous ergodic capacities of the channel
between the ST and each SR in all of these scenarios. Granting that
transmission outage arises when the instantaneous transmission rate is greater
than the instantaneous ergodic capacity, we establish two different
transmission rate policies for the SUs when the channel is sensed as idle. One
of these policies features a greedy approach disregarding a possible
transmission outage, and the other favors a precautious manner to prevent this
outage. Subsequently, we determine the effective capacity region of this
channel model, and we attain the power allocation policies that maximize this
region. Finally, we present the numerical results. We first show the
superiority of Majority rule when the channel sensing results are good. Then,
we illustrate that a greedy transmission rate approach is more beneficial for
the SUs under strict interference power constraints, whereas sending with lower
rates will be more advantageous under loose interference constraints.