In the past few years there has been a significant rise in the short-circuit
current levels in transmission and distribution networks, it due to the
increasing demands on power and the addition of sources of distributed
generations. It leads to the need of integration of novel protection systems
such as the superconducting fault current limiters (SFCLs), ... . SFCL models
on the electric distribution networks largely rely on the insertion of a step
or exponential resistance that is determined by a predefined quenching time.
However, beyond the framework of these models, the study of the performance,
reliability, and location strategy for the installation of sole or multiple
SFCLs in power grids still lacks of proper development leading to the utter
need of comprehensive and systematic studies on this issue. In this paper, we
expand the scope of the aforementioned models by considering the actual
behaviour of a SFCL in terms of the temperature dynamic power-law dependence
between the electrical field and the current density. Our results are compared
with step-resistance models for the sake of discussion and clarity of the
conclusions. Both SFCL models were integrated into a power system model built
based on the UK power standard, and the impact of these protection strategies
on the performance of the overall electricity network was studied. As a
representative renewable energy source, a 90 MVA wind farm was considered for
the simulations. Three fault conditions have been simulated, and the figures
for the fault current reduction predicted by both fault current limiting models
have been compared in terms of multiple current measuring points and allocation
strategies...