This work examines the use of two-way training in multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) wireless systems to discriminate the channel estimation
performances between a legitimate receiver (LR) and an uncontributorized receiver
(UR). This thesis extends upon the previously proposed discriminatory channel
estimation (DCE) scheme that allows only the transmitter to send training
signals. The goal of DCE is to minimize the channel estimation error at LR
while requiring the channel estimation error at UR to remain beyond a certain
level. If the training signal is sent only by the transmitter, the performance
discrimination between LR and UR will be limited since the training signals
help both receivers perform estimates of their downlink channels. In this work,
we consider instead the two-way training methodology that allows both the
transmitter and LR to send training signals. In this case, the training signal
sent by LR helps the transmitter obtain knowledge of the transmitter-to-LR
channel, but does not help UR estimate its downlink channel (i.e., the
transmitter-to-UR channel). With transmitter knowledge of the estimated
transmitter-to-LR channel, artificial noise (AN) can then be embedded in the
null space of the transmitter-to-LR channel to disrupt UR's channel estimation
without severely degrading the channel estimation at LR. Based on these ideas,
two-way DCE training schemes are developed for both reciprocal and
non-reciprocal channels. The optimal power allocation between training and AN
signals is devised under both average and individual power constraints.
Numerical results are provided to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed
two-way DCE training schemes.