We investigate online algorithms for maximum (weight) independent set on
graph classes with bounded inductive independence number like, e.g., interval
and disk graphs with applications to, e.g., task scheduling and spectrum
allocation. In the online setting, it is assumed that nodes of an unknown graph
arrive one by one over time. An online algorithm has to decide whether an
arriving node should be included into the independent set. Unfortunately, this
natural and practically relevant online problem cannot be studied in a
meaningful way within a classical competitive analysis as the competitive ratio
on worst-case input sequences is lower bounded by $\Omega(n)$.
  As a worst-case analysis is pointless, we study online independent set in a
stochastic analysis. Instead of focussing on a particular stochastic input
model, we present a generic sampling approach that enables us to devise online
algorithms achieving performance guarantees for a variety of input models. In
particular, our analysis covers stochastic input models like the secretary
model, in which an adversarial graph is presented in random order, and the
prophet-inequality model, in which a randomly generated graph is presented in
adversarial order. Our sampling approach bridges thus between stochastic input
models of quite different nature. In addition, we show that our approach can be
applied to a practically motivated admission control setting.
  Our sampling approach yields an online algorithm for maximum independent set
with competitive ratio $O(\rho^2)$ with respect to all of the mentioned
stochastic input models. for graph classes with inductive independence number
$\rho$. The approach can be extended towards maximum-weight independent set by
losing only a factor of $O(\log n)$ in the competitive ratio with $n$ denoting
the (expected) number of nodes.