We present an observational and theoretical study of the optical emission
from nonradiative shocks in three supernova remnants: the Cygnus Loop, RCW 86
and Tycho. The spectra of these shocks are dominated by collisionally excited
hydrogen Balmer lines which have both a broad component caused by
proton-neutral charge exchange and a narrow component caused by excitation of
cold neutrals entering the shock. In each remnant we have obtained the broad to
narrow flux ratios of the Halpha and Hbeta lines and measured the Halpha broad
component width.
  A new numerical shock code computes the broad and narrow Balmer line emission
from nonradiative shocks in partially neutral gas. The Balmer line fluxes are
sensitive to Lyman line trapping and the degree of electron-proton temperature
equilibration. The code calculates the density, temperature and size of the
postshock ionization layer and uses a Monte Carlo simulation to compute narrow
Balmer line enhancement from Lyman line trapping. The initial fraction of the
shock energy allocated to the electrons and protons (the equilibration) is a
free parameter. Our models show that variations in electron-proton temperature
equilibration and Lyman line trapping can reproduce the observed range of broad
to narrow ratios. The results give 80%-100% equilibration in nonradiative
portions of the NE Cygnus Loop (v_shock ~ 300 km/s), 40%-50% equilibration in
nonradiative portions of RCW 86 (v_shock ~ 600 km/s) and <~ 20% equilibration
in Tycho (v_shock ~ 2000 km/s). Our results suggst an inverse correlation
between magnetosonic Mach number and equilibration in the observed remnants.