The Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS) is a wide field multi-fiber spectrograph
using the prime focus of the Subaru telescope, which is capable of observing up
to 2400 astronomical objects simultaneously.
  The instrument control software will manage the observation procedure
communicateing with subsystems such as the fiber positioner "COBRA", the
metrology camera system, and the spectrograph and camera systems. Before an
exposure starts, the instrument control system needs to access to a database
where target lists provided by observers are stored in advance, and accurately
position fibers onto astronomical targets as requested therein. This fiber
positioning will be carried out interacting with the metrology system which
measures the fiber positions. In parallel, the control system can issue a
command to point the telescope to the target position and to rotate the
instrument rotator. Finally the telescope pointing and the rotator angle will
be checked by imaging bright stars and checking their positions on the
auto-guide and acquisition cameras. After the exposure finishes, the data are
collected from the detector systems and are finalized as FITS files to archive
with necessary information.
  The observation preparation software is required, given target lists and a
sequence of observation, to find optimal fiber allocations with maximizing the
number of guide stars. To carry out these operations efficiently, the control
system will be integrated seamlessly with a database system which will store
information necessary for observation execution such as fiber configurations.
  In this article, the conceptual system design of the observation preparation
software and the instrument control software will be presented.