In this paper, we pioneer the study of physical-layer security in
heterogeneous networks (HetNets). We investigate secure communications in a
two-tier downlink HetNet, which comprises one macrocell and several femtocells.
Each cell has multiple users and an eavesdropper attempts to wiretap the
intended macrocell user. Firstly, we consider an orthogonal spectrum allocation
strategy to eliminate co-channel interference, and propose the secrecy transmit
beamforming only operating in the macrocell (STB-OM) as a partial solution for
secure communication in HetNet. Next, we consider a secrecy-oriented
non-orthogonal spectrum allocation strategy and propose two cooperative STBs
which rely on the collaboration amongst the macrocell base station (MBS) and
the adjacent femtocell base stations (FBSs). Our first cooperative STB is the
STB sequentially operating in the macrocell and femtocells (STB-SMF), where the
cooperative FBSs individually design their STB matrices and then feed their
performance metrics to the MBS for guiding the STB in the macrocell. Aiming to
improve the performance of STB-SMF, we further propose the STB jointly designed
in the macrocell and femtocells (STB-JMF), where all cooperative FBSs feed
channel state information to the MBS for designing the joint STB. Unlike
conventional STBs conceived for broadcasting or interference channels, the
three proposed STB schemes all entail relatively sophisticated optimizations
due to QoS constraints of the legitimate users. In order to efficiently use
these STB schemes, the original optimization problems are reformulated and
convex optimization techniques, such as second-order cone programming and
semidefinite programming, are invoked to obtain the optimal solutions.
Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed STB schemes are highly
effective in improving the secrecy rate performance of HetNet.