We adopt a game theoretic approach for the design and analysis of distributed
resource allocation algorithms in fading multiple access channels. The users
are assumed to be selfish, rational, and limited by average power constraints.
We show that the sum-rate optimal point on the boundary of the multipleaccess
channel capacity region is the unique Nash Equilibrium of the corresponding
water-filling game. This result sheds a new light on the opportunistic
communication principle and argues for the fairness of the sum-rate optimal
point, at least from a game theoretic perspective. The base-station is then
introduced as a player interested in maximizing a weighted sum of the
individual rates. We propose a Stackelberg formulation in which the
base-station is the designated game leader. In this set-up, the base-station
announces first its strategy defined as the decoding order of the different
users, in the successive cancellation receiver, as a function of the channel
state. In the second stage, the users compete conditioned on this particular
decoding strategy. We show that this formulation allows for achieving all the
corner points of the capacity region, in addition to the sum-rate optimal
point. On the negative side, we prove the non-existence of a base-station
strategy in this formulation that achieves the rest of the boundary points. To
overcome this limitation, we present a repeated game approach which achieves
the capacity region of the fading multiple access channel. Finally, we extend
our study to vector channels highlighting interesting differences between this
scenario and the scalar channel case.