This paper studies the transmit strategy for a secondary link or the
so-called cognitive radio (CR) link under opportunistic spectrum sharing with
an existing primary radio (PR) link. It is assumed that the CR transmitter is
equipped with multi-antennas, whereby transmit precoding and power control can
be jointly deployed to balance between avoiding interference at the PR
terminals and optimizing performance of the CR link. This operation is named as
cognitive beamforming (CB). Unlike prior study on CB that assumes perfect
knowledge of the channels over which the CR transmitter interferes with the PR
terminals, this paper proposes a practical CB scheme utilizing a new idea of
effective interference channel (EIC), which can be efficiently estimated at the
CR transmitter from its observed PR signals. Somehow surprisingly, this paper
shows that the learning-based CB scheme with the EIC improves the CR channel
capacity against the conventional scheme even with the exact CR-to-PR channel
knowledge, when the PR link is equipped with multi-antennas but only
communicates over a subspace of the total available spatial dimensions.
Moreover, this paper presents algorithms for the CR to estimate the EIC over a
finite learning time. Due to channel estimation errors, the proposed CB scheme
causes leakage interference at the PR terminals, which leads to an interesting
learning-throughput tradeoff phenomenon for the CR, pertinent to its time
allocation between channel learning and data transmission. This paper derives
the optimal channel learning time to maximize the effective throughput of the
CR link, subject to the CR transmit power constraint and the interference power
constraints for the PR terminals.