Motivated by a recent surge of interest in convex optimization techniques,
convexity/concavity properties of error rates of the maximum likelihood
detector operating in the AWGN channel are studied and extended to
frequency-flat slow-fading channels. Generic conditions are identified under
which the symbol error rate (SER) is convex/concave for arbitrary
multi-dimensional constellations. In particular, the SER is convex in SNR for
any one- and two-dimensional constellation, and also in higher dimensions at
high SNR. Pairwise error probability and bit error rate are shown to be convex
at high SNR, for arbitrary constellations and bit mapping. Universal bounds for
the SER 1st and 2nd derivatives are obtained, which hold for arbitrary
constellations and are tight for some of them. Applications of the results are
discussed, which include optimum power allocation in spatial multiplexing
systems, optimum power/time sharing to decrease or increase (jamming problem)
error rate, an implication for fading channels ("fading is never good in low
dimensions") and optimization of a unitary-precoded OFDM system. For example,
the error rate bounds of a unitary-precoded OFDM system with QPSK modulation,
which reveal the best and worst precoding, are extended to arbitrary
constellations, which may also include coding. The reported results also apply
to the interference channel under Gaussian approximation, to the bit error rate
when it can be expressed or approximated as a non-negative linear combination
of individual symbol error rates, and to coded systems.