Consider a requester who wishes to crowdsource a series of identical binary
labeling tasks to a pool of workers so as to achieve an assured accuracy for
each task, in a cost optimal way. The workers are heterogeneous with unknown
but fixed qualities and their costs are private. The problem is to select for
each task an optimal subset of workers so that the outcome obtained from the
selected workers guarantees a target accuracy level. The problem is a
challenging one even in a non strategic setting since the accuracy of
aggregated label depends on unknown qualities. We develop a novel multi-armed
bandit (MAB) mechanism for solving this problem. First, we propose a framework,
Assured Accuracy Bandit (AAB), which leads to an MAB algorithm, Constrained
Confidence Bound for a Non Strategic setting (CCB-NS). We derive an upper bound
on the number of time steps the algorithm chooses a sub-optimal set that
depends on the target accuracy level and true qualities. A more challenging
situation arises when the requester not only has to learn the qualities of the
workers but also elicit their true costs. We modify the CCB-NS algorithm to
obtain an adaptive exploration separated algorithm which we call { \em
Constrained Confidence Bound for a Strategic setting (CCB-S)}. CCB-S algorithm
produces an ex-post monotone allocation rule and thus can be transformed into
an ex-post incentive compatible and ex-post individually rational mechanism
that learns the qualities of the workers and guarantees a given target accuracy
level in a cost optimal way. We provide a lower bound on the number of times
any algorithm should select a sub-optimal set and we see that the lower bound
matches our upper bound upto a constant factor. We provide insights on the
practical implementation of this framework through an illustrative example and
we show the efficacy of our algorithms through simulations.