The 5G cellular wireless systems will have a multi-tier architecture
consisting of macrocells, different types of licensed small cells and D2D
networks to serve users with different quality-of-service (QoS) requirements in
a spectrum efficient manner. Distributed resource allocation and interference
management is one of the fundamental research challenges for such multi-tier
heterogeneous networks. In this chapter, we consider the radio resource
allocation problem in a multi-tier orthogonal frequency division multiple
access (OFDMA)-based cellular (e.g., 5G LTE-A) network. In particular, we
present three novel approaches for distributed resource allocation in such
networks utilizing the concepts of stable matching, factor-graph based message
passing, and distributed auction. We illustrate each of the modeling schemes
with respect to a practical radio resource allocation problem. In particular,
we consider a multi-tier network consisting a macro base station (MBS), a set
of small cell base stations (SBSs) and corresponding small cell user equipments
(SUEs), as well as D2D user equipments (DUEs). There is a common set of radio
resources (e.g., resource blocks [RBs]) available to the network tiers (e.g.,
MBS, SBSs and DUEs). The SUEs and DUEs use the available resources (e.g., RB
and power level) in an underlay manner as long as the interference caused to
the macro tier (e.g., macro user equipments [MUEs]) remains below a given
threshold. Followed by a brief theoretical overview of the modeling tools
(e.g., stable matching, message passing and auction algorithm), we present the
distributed solution approaches for the resource allocation problem in the
aforementioned network setup. We also provide a brief qualitative comparison in
terms of various performance metrics such as complexity, convergence, algorithm
overhead etc.