We propose the design of an original scalable image coder/decoder that is
inspired from the mammalians retina. Our coder accounts for the time-dependent
and also nondeterministic behavior of the actual retina. The present work
brings two main contributions: As a first step, (i) we design a deterministic
image coder mimicking most of the retinal processing stages and then (ii) we
introduce a retinal noise in the coding process, that we model here as a dither
signal, to gain interesting perceptual features. Regarding our first
contribution, our main source of inspiration will be the biologically plausible
model of the retina called Virtual Retina. The main novelty of this coder is to
show that the time-dependent behavior of the retina cells could ensure, in an
implicit way, scalability and bit allocation. Regarding our second
contribution, we reconsider the inner layers of the retina. We emit a possible
interpretation for the non-determinism observed by neurophysiologists in their
output. For this sake, we model the retinal noise that occurs in these layers
by a dither signal. The dithering process that we propose adds several
interesting features to our image coder. The dither noise whitens the
reconstruction error and decorrelates it from the input stimuli. Furthermore,
integrating the dither noise in our coder allows a faster recognition of the
fine details of the image during the decoding process. Our present paper goal
is twofold. First, we aim at mimicking as closely as possible the retina for
the design of a novel image coder while keeping encouraging performances.
Second, we bring a new insight concerning the non-deterministic behavior of the
retina.