The Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA) is an airborne
astronomical observatory comprised of a 2.5 meter infrared telescope mounted in
the aft section of a Boeing 747SP aircraft that flies at operational altitudes
between 37,000 and 45,00 feet, above 99% of atmospheric water vapor. During
routine operations, a host of instruments will be available to the astronomical
community including cameras and spectrographs in the near- to far-IR; a sub-mm
heterodyne receiver; and an high-speed occultation imager. One of the
challenges for SOFIA (and all observatories in general) is providing a uniform
set of tools that enable the non-expert General Investigator (GI) to propose,
plan, and obtain observations using a variety of very different instruments in
an easy and seamless manner. The SOFIA Data Cycle System (DCS) is an integrated
set of services and user tools for the SOFIA Science and Mission Operations GI
Program designed to address this challenge. Program activities supported by the
DCS include: proposal preparation and submission by the GI; proposal evaluation
by the telescope allocation committee and observatory staff; Astronomical
Observation Request (AOR) preparation and submission by the GI; observation and
mission planning by observatory staff; data processing and archiving; data
product distribution. In this poster paper we present an overview of the DCS
concepts, architecture, and user tools that are (or soon will be) available in
routine SOFIA operations. In addition, we present experience from the SOFIA
Basic Science program, and planned upgrades.