The elucidation upon fly's neuronal patterns as a link to computer graphics
and memory cards I/O's, is investigated for the phenomenon by propounding a
unified theory of Einstein's two known relativities. It is conclusive that
flies could contribute a certain amount of neuromatrices indicating an imagery
function of a visual-computational system into computer graphics and storage
systems. The visual system involves the time aspect, whereas flies possess
faster pulses compared to humans' visual ability due to the E-field state on an
active fly's eye surface. This behaviour can be tested on a dissected fly
specimen at its ommatidia. Electro-optical contacts and electrodes are wired
through the flesh forming organic emitter layer to stimulate light emission,
thereby to a computer circuit. The next step is applying a threshold voltage
with secondary voltages to the circuit denoting an array of essential
electrodes for bit switch. As a result, circuit's dormant pulses versus active
pulses at the specimen's area are recorded. The outcome matrix possesses a
construction of RGB and time radicals expressing the time problem in
consumption, allocating time into computational algorithms, enhancing the
technology far beyond. The obtained formulation generates consumed distance
cons(x), denoting circuital travel between data source/sink for pixel data and
bendable wavelengths. Once 'image logic' is in place, incorporating this point
of graphical acceleration permits one to enhance graphics and optimize
immensely central processing, data transmissions between memory and computer
visual system. The phenomenon can be mainly used in 360-deg. display/viewing,
3D scanning techniques, military and medicine, a robust and cheap substitution
for e.g. pre-motion pattern analysis, real-time rendering and LCDs.