The vision of seamlessly integrating information transfer (IT) and microwave
based power transfer (PT) in the same system has led to the emergence of a new
research area, called wirelessly power communications (WPC). Extensive research
has been conducted on developing WPC theory and techniques, building on the
extremely rich wireless communications litera- ture covering diversified topics
such as transmissions, resource allocations, medium access control and network
protocols and architectures. Despite these research efforts, transforming WPC
from theory to practice still faces many unsolved prob- lems concerning issues
such as mobile complexity, power transfer efficiency, and safety. Furthermore,
the fundamental limits of WPC remain largely unknown. Recent attempts to
address these open issues has resulted in the emergence of numerous new
research trends in the WPC area. A few promising trends are introduced in this
article. From the practical perspective, the use of backscatter antennas can
support WPC for low-complexity passive devices, the design of spiky waveforms
can improve the PT efficiency, and analog spatial decoupling is proposed for
solving the PT-IT near-far problem in WPC. From the theoretic perspective, the
fundamental limits of WPC can be quantified by leveraging recent results on
super-directivity and the limit can be improved by the deployment of
large-scale distributed antenna arrays. Specific research problems along these
trends are discussed, whose solutions can lead to significant advancements in
WPC.