In case of multiple node failures performance becomes very low as compare to
single node failure. Failures of nodes in cluster computing can be tolerated by
multiple fault tolerant computing. Existing recovery schemes are efficient for
single fault but not with multiple faults. Recovery scheme proposed in this
paper having two phases; sequentially phase, concurrent phase. In sequentially
phase, loads of all working nodes are uniformly and evenly distributed by
proposed dynamic rank based and load distribution algorithm. In concurrent
phase, loads of all failure nodes as well as new job arrival are assigned
equally to all available nodes by just finding the least loaded node among the
several nodes by failure nodes job allocation algorithm. Sequential and
concurrent executions of algorithms improve the performance as well better
resource utilization. Dynamic rank based algorithm for load redistribution
works as a sequential restoration algorithm and reassignment algorithm for
distribution of failure nodes to least loaded computing nodes works as a
concurrent recovery reassignment algorithm. Since load is evenly and uniformly
distributed among all available working nodes with less number of iterations,
low iterative time and communication overheads hence performance is improved.
Dynamic ranking algorithm is low overhead, high convergence algorithm for
reassignment of tasks uniformly among all available nodes. Reassignments of
failure nodes are done by a low overhead efficient failure job allocation
algorithm. Test results to show effectiveness of the proposed scheme are
presented.