In this paper, we investigate resource allocation strategies for a
point-to-point wireless communications system with hybrid energy sources
consisting of an energy harvester and a conventional energy source. In
particular, as an incentive to promote the use of renewable energy, we assume
that the renewable energy has a lower cost than the conventional energy. Then,
by assuming that the non-causal information of the energy arrivals and the
channel power gains are available, we minimize the total energy cost of such a
system over $N$ fading slots under a proposed outage constraint together with
the energy harvesting constraints. The outage constraint requires a minimum
fixed number of slots to be reliably decoded, and thus leads to a mixed-integer
programming formulation for the optimization problem. This constraint is
useful, for example, if an outer code is used to recover all the data bits.
Optimal linear time algorithms are obtained for two extreme cases, i.e., the
number of outage slot is $1$ or $N-1$. For the general case, a lower bound
based on the linear programming relaxation, and two suboptimal algorithms are
proposed. It is shown that the proposed suboptimal algorithms exhibit only a
small gap from the lower bound. We then extend the proposed algorithms to the
multi-cycle scenario in which the outage constraint is imposed for each cycle
separately. Finally, we investigate the resource allocation strategies when
only causal information on the energy arrivals and only channel statistics is
available. It is shown that the greedy energy allocation is optimal for this
scenario.