In this paper, we propose a novel class of Nash problems for Cognitive Radio
(CR) networks composed of multiple primary users (PUs) and secondary users
(SUs) wherein each SU (player) competes against the others to maximize his own
opportunistic throughput by choosing jointly the sensing duration, the
detection thresholds, and the vector power allocation over a multichannel link.
In addition to power budget constraints, several (deterministic or
probabilistic) interference constraints can be accommodated in the proposed
general formulation, such as constraints on the maximum individual/aggregate
(probabilistic) interference tolerable from the PUs. To keep the optimization
as decentralized as possible, global interference constraints, when present,
are imposed via pricing; the prices are thus additional variables to be
optimized. The resulting players' optimization problems are nonconvex and there
are price clearance conditions associated with the nonconvex global
interference constraints to be satisfied by the equilibria of the game, which
make the analysis of the proposed game a challenging task; none of classical
results in the game theory literature can be successfully applied. To deal with
the nonconvexity of the game, we introduce a relaxed equilibrium concept, the
Quasi-Nash Equilibrium (QNE), and study its main properties, performance, and
connection with local Nash equilibria. Quite interestingly, the proposed game
theoretical formulations yield a considerable performance improvement with
respect to current centralized and decentralized designs of CR systems, which
validates the concept of QNE.