This paper addresses the problem of correlation estimation in sets of
compressed images. We consider a framework where images are represented under
the form of linear measurements due to low complexity sensing or security
requirements. We assume that the images are correlated through the displacement
of visual objects due to motion or viewpoint change and the correlation is
effectively represented by optical flow or motion field models. The correlation
is estimated in the compressed domain by jointly processing the linear
measurements. We first show that the correlated images can be efficiently
related using a linear operator. Using this linear relationship we then
describe the dependencies between images in the compressed domain. We further
cast a regularized optimization problem where the correlation is estimated in
order to satisfy both data consistency and motion smoothness objectives with a
Graph Cut algorithm. We analyze in detail the correlation estimation
performance and quantify the penalty due to image compression. Extensive
experiments in stereo and video imaging applications show that our novel
solution stays competitive with methods that implement complex image
reconstruction steps prior to correlation estimation. We finally use the
estimated correlation in a novel joint image reconstruction scheme that is
based on an optimization problem with sparsity priors on the reconstructed
images. Additional experiments show that our correlation estimation algorithm
leads to an effective reconstruction of pairs of images in distributed image
coding schemes that outperform independent reconstruction algorithms by 2 to 4
dB.