A workflow specification defines a set of steps and the order in which those
steps must be executed. Security requirements may impose constraints on which
groups of users are permitted to perform subsets of those steps. A workflow
specification is said to be satisfiable if there exists an assignment of users
to workflow steps that satisfies all the constraints. An algorithm for
determining whether such an assignment exists is important, both as a static
analysis tool for workflow specifications, and for the construction of run-time
reference monitors for workflow management systems. Finding such an assignment
is a hard problem in general, but work by Wang and Li in 2010 using the theory
of parameterized complexity suggests that efficient algorithms exist under
reasonable assumptions about workflow specifications. In this paper, we improve
the complexity bounds for the workflow satisfiability problem. We also
generalize and extend the types of constraints that may be defined in a
workflow specification and prove that the satisfiability problem remains
fixed-parameter tractable for such constraints. Finally, we consider
preprocessing for the problem and prove that in an important special case, in
polynomial time, we can reduce the given input into an equivalent one, where
the number of users is at most the number of steps. We also show that no such
reduction exists for two natural extensions of this case, which bounds the
number of users by a polynomial in the number of steps, provided a
widely-accepted complexity-theoretical assumption holds.