Crowdsourcing markets have emerged as a popular platform for matching
available workers with tasks to complete. The payment for a particular task is
typically set by the task's requester, and may be adjusted based on the quality
of the completed work, for example, through the use of "bonus" payments. In
this paper, we study the requester's problem of dynamically adjusting
quality-contingent payments for tasks. We consider a multi-round version of the
well-known principal-agent model, whereby in each round a worker makes a
strategic choice of the effort level which is not directly observable by the
requester. In particular, our formulation significantly generalizes the
budget-free online task pricing problems studied in prior work.
  We treat this problem as a multi-armed bandit problem, with each "arm"
representing a potential contract. To cope with the large (and in fact,
infinite) number of arms, we propose a new algorithm, AgnosticZooming, which
discretizes the contract space into a finite number of regions, effectively
treating each region as a single arm. This discretization is adaptively
refined, so that more promising regions of the contract space are eventually
discretized more finely. We analyze this algorithm, showing that it achieves
regret sublinear in the time horizon and substantially improves over
non-adaptive discretization (which is the only competing approach in the
literature).
  Our results advance the state of art on several different topics: the theory
of crowdsourcing markets, principal-agent problems, multi-armed bandits, and
dynamic pricing.