In the context of influence propagation in a social graph, we can identify
three orthogonal dimensions - the number of seed nodes activated at the
beginning (known as budget), the expected number of activated nodes at the end
of the propagation (known as expected spread or coverage), and the time taken
for the propagation. We can constrain one or two of these and try to optimize
the third. In their seminal paper, Kempe et al. constrained the budget, left
time unconstrained, and maximized the coverage: this problem is known as
Influence Maximization.
  In this paper, we study alternative optimization problems which are naturally
motivated by resource and time constraints on viral marketing campaigns. In the
first problem, termed Minimum Target Set Selection (or MINTSS for short), a
coverage threshold n is given and the task is to find the minimum size seed set
such that by activating it, at least n nodes are eventually activated in the
expected sense. In the second problem, termed MINTIME, a coverage threshold n
and a budget threshold k are given, and the task is to find a seed set of size
at most k such that by activating it, at least n nodes are activated, in the
minimum possible time. Both these problems are NP-hard, which motivates our
interest in their approximation.
  For MINTSS, we develop a simple greedy algorithm and show that it provides a
bicriteria approximation. We also establish a generic hardness result
suggesting that improving it is likely to be hard. For MINTIME, we show that
even bicriteria and tricriteria approximations are hard under several
conditions. However, if we allow the budget to be boosted by a logarithmic
factor and allow the coverage to fall short, then the problem can be solved
exactly in PTIME.
  Finally, we show the value of the approximation algorithms, by comparing them
against various heuristics.