In this paper, we study statistical properties of semi-supervised learning,
which is considered as an important problem in the community of machine
learning. In the standard supervised learning, only the labeled data is
observed. The classification and regression problems are formalized as the
supervised learning. In semi-supervised learning, unlabeled data is also
obtained in addition to labeled data. Hence, exploiting unlabeled data is
important to improve the prediction accuracy in semi-supervised learning. This
problems is regarded as a semiparametric estimation problem with missing data.
Under the the discriminative probabilistic models, it had been considered that
the unlabeled data is useless to improve the estimation accuracy. Recently, it
was revealed that the weighted estimator using the unlabeled data achieves
better prediction accuracy in comparison to the learning method using only
labeled data, especially when the discriminative probabilistic model is
misspecified. That is, the improvement under the semiparametric model with
missing data is possible, when the semiparametric model is misspecified. In
this paper, we apply the density-ratio estimator to obtain the weight function
in the semi-supervised learning. The benefit of our approach is that the
proposed estimator does not require well-specified probabilistic models for the
probability of the unlabeled data. Based on the statistical asymptotic theory,
we prove that the estimation accuracy of our method outperforms the supervised
learning using only labeled data. Some numerical experiments present the
usefulness of our methods.