The notion of aggregate signature has been motivated by applications and it
enables any user to compress different signatures signed by different signers
on different messages into a short signature. Sequential aggregate signature,
in turn, is a special kind of aggregate signature that only allows a signer to
add his signature into an aggregate signature in sequential order. This latter
scheme has applications in diversified settings such as in reducing bandwidth
of certificate chains and in secure routing protocols. Lu, Ostrovsky, Sahai,
Shacham, and Waters (EUROCRYPT 2006) presented the first sequential aggregate
signature scheme in the standard model. The size of their public key, however,
is quite large (i.e., the number of group elements is proportional to the
security parameter), and therefore, they suggested as an open problem the
construction of such a scheme with short keys.
  In this paper, we propose the first sequential aggregate signature schemes
with short public keys (i.e., a constant number of group elements) in prime
order (asymmetric) bilinear groups that are secure under static assumptions in
the standard model. Furthermore, our schemes employ a constant number of
pairing operations per message signing and message verification operation.
Technically, we start with a public-key signature scheme based on the recent
dual system encryption technique of Lewko and Waters (TCC 2010). This technique
cannot directly provide an aggregate signature scheme since, as we observed,
additional elements should be published in a public key to support aggregation.
Thus, our constructions are careful augmentation techniques for the dual system
technique to allow it to support sequential aggregate signature schemes. We
also propose a multi-signature scheme with short public parameters in the
standard model.