For $f$ a weighted voting scheme used by $n$ voters to choose between two
candidates, the $n$ \emph{Shapley-Shubik Indices} (or {\em Shapley values}) of
$f$ provide a measure of how much control each voter can exert over the overall
outcome of the vote. Shapley-Shubik indices were introduced by Lloyd Shapley
and Martin Shubik in 1954 \cite{SS54} and are widely studied in social choice
theory as a measure of the "influence" of voters. The \emph{Inverse Shapley
Value Problem} is the problem of designing a weighted voting scheme which
(approximately) achieves a desired input vector of values for the
Shapley-Shubik indices. Despite much interest in this problem no provably
correct and efficient algorithm was known prior to our work.
  We give the first efficient algorithm with provable performance guarantees
for the Inverse Shapley Value Problem. For any constant $\eps > 0$ our
algorithm runs in fixed poly$(n)$ time (the degree of the polynomial is
independent of $\eps$) and has the following performance guarantee: given as
input a vector of desired Shapley values, if any "reasonable" weighted voting
scheme (roughly, one in which the threshold is not too skewed) approximately
matches the desired vector of values to within some small error, then our
algorithm explicitly outputs a weighted voting scheme that achieves this vector
of Shapley values to within error $\eps.$ If there is a "reasonable" voting
scheme in which all voting weights are integers at most $\poly(n)$ that
approximately achieves the desired Shapley values, then our algorithm runs in
time $\poly(n)$ and outputs a weighted voting scheme that achieves the target
vector of Shapley values to within error $\eps=n^{-1/8}.$