The Container Relocation Problem (CRP) is concerned with finding a sequence
of moves to retrieve containers in a given order with minimum number of
relocations. While the problem is known to be NP-hard, there is much evidence
that certain algorithms and heuristics perform reasonably well on many
instances of the problem. In this paper, we first focus on the A* search
algorithm, and analyze easy to compute lower and upper bounds that can be used
to prune nodes and to determine the gap between the solution found and the
optimum. Our analysis sheds light on which bounds result in fast computation
within a given approximation gap. We also present extensive simulation results
that show our method finds the optimum solution on most instances of
medium-size bays. On the "hard" instances, our method finds a near-optimal
solution with a small gap and within a time frame that is fast for practical
applications. We also study the average-case asymptotic behavior of the CRP
where the number of columns grows. We show that the optimum number of
relocations converges to a simple and intuitive lower-bound. This gives strong
evidence that the CRP is "easier" in large instances, and heuristic approach
can give near optimal solution.
  We further study the CRP with incomplete information in a 2-stage setting
where the retrieval order of a subset of containers is known initially and the
retrieval order of the remaining containers is observed later at a given
revelation time. Before this time, we assume a probabilistic distribution on
the retrieval order of unknown containers. We extend the A* algorithm and
combine it with sampling technique to solve this 2-stage stochastic
optimization problem. We show that our algorithm is fast and the error due to
sampling is reasonably small. Using our framework, we study the value of
information and the effect of revelation time on the average number of
relocations.