Finding an informative subset of a large number of data points or models is
at the center of many problems in machine learning, computer vision, bio/health
informatics and image/signal processing. Given pairwise dissimilarities between
the elements of a `source set' and a `target set,' we consider the problem of
finding a subset of the source set, called representatives or exemplars, that
can efficiently describe the target set. We formulate the problem as a
row-sparsity regularized trace minimization problem. Since the proposed
formulation is, in general, an NP-hard problem, we consider a convex
relaxation. The solution of our proposed optimization program finds the
representatives and the probability that each element of the target set is
associated with the representatives. We analyze the solution of our proposed
optimization as a function of the regularization parameter. We show that when
the two sets jointly partition into multiple groups, the solution of our
proposed optimization program finds representatives from all groups and reveals
clustering of the sets. In addition, we show that our proposed formulation can
effectively deal with outliers. Our algorithm works with arbitrary
dissimilarities, which can be asymmetric or violate the triangle inequality. To
efficiently implement our proposed algorithm, we consider an Alternating
Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) framework, which results in quadratic
complexity in the problem size. We show that the ADMM implementation allows to
parallelize the algorithm, hence further reducing the computational cost.
Finally, by experiments on real-world datasets, we show that our proposed
algorithm improves the state of the art on the two problems of scene
categorization using representative images and time-series modeling and
segmentation using representative models.