Symmetric submodular functions are an important family of submodular
functions capturing many interesting functions including cut functions of
graphs and hypergraphs. Maximization of such functions subject to various
constraints receives little attention by current research, unlike similar
minimization problems which have been widely studied. In this work, we identify
a few submodular maximization problems for which one can get a better
approximation for symmetric objectives than the state of the art approximation
for general submodular functions.
  We first consider the problem of maximizing a non-negative symmetric
submodular function $f\colon 2^\mathcal{N} \to \mathbb{R}^+$ subject to a
down-monotone solvable polytope $\mathcal{P} \in [0, 1]^\mathcal{N}$. For this
problem we describe an algorithm producing a fractional solution of value at
least $0.432 \cdot f(OPT)$, where $OPT$ is the optimal \emph{integral}
solution. Our second result considers the problem $\max \{f(S) : |S| = k\}$ for
a non-negative symmetric submodular function $f\colon 2^\mathcal{N} \to
\mathbb{R}^+$. For this problem, we give an approximation ratio that depends on
the value $k / |\mathcal{N}|$ and is always at least $0.432$. Our method can
also be applied to non-negative non-symmetric submodular function, in which
case it produces $1/e - o(1)$ approximation, improving over the best known
result for this problem. Finally, we describe a deterministic linear-time
$1/2$-approximation algorithm for unconstrained maximization of a non-negative
symmetric submodular function.