Formamide (NH2CHO) has been proposed as a pre-biotic precursor with a key
role in the emergence of life on Earth. While this molecule has been observed
in space, most of its detections correspond to high-mass star-forming regions.
Motivated by this lack of investigation in the low-mass regime, we searched for
formamide, as well as isocyanic acid (HNCO), in 10 low- and intermediate-mass
pre-stellar and protostellar objects. The present work is part of the IRAM
Large Programme ASAI (Astrochemical Surveys At IRAM), which makes use of
unbiased broadband spectral surveys at millimetre wavelengths. We detected HNCO
in all the sources and NH2CHO in five of them. We derived their abundances and
analysed them together with those reported in the literature for high-mass
sources. For those sources with formamide detection, we found a tight and
almost linear correlation between HNCO and NH2CHO abundances, with their ratio
being roughly constant -between 3 and 10- across 6 orders of magnitude in
luminosity. This suggests the two species are chemically related. The sources
without formamide detection, which are also the coldest and devoid of hot
corinos, fall well off the correlation, displaying a much larger amount of HNCO
relative to NH2CHO. Our results suggest that, while HNCO can be formed in the
gas phase during the cold stages of star formation, NH2CHO forms most
efficiently on the mantles of dust grains at these temperatures, where it
remains frozen until the temperature rises enough to sublimate the icy grain
mantles. We propose hydrogenation of HNCO as a likely formation route leading
to NH2CHO.