We determine how a system composed of two nonidentical two-level atoms with
different resonance frequencies and different damping rates could work as a
nano-antenna for controlled mode switching and light routing. We calculate the
angular distribution of the emitted field detected in a far-field zone of the
system including the direct interatomic interactions and arbitrary linear
dimensions of the system. The calculation is carried out in terms of the
symmetric and antisymmetric modes of the two atom system. We find that as long
as the atoms are identical, the emission cannot be switched between the
symmetric and antisymmetric modes. The switching may occur when the atoms are
non-identical and the emission can then be routed to different modes by
changing the relative ratio of the atomic frequencies, or damping rates or by a
proper tuning of the laser frequency to the atomic resonance frequencies. It is
shown that in the case of atoms of different resonance frequencies but equal
damping rates, the light routing is independent of the frequency of the driving
laser field. It depends only on the sign of the detuning between the atomic
resonance frequencies. In the case of atoms of different damping rates, the
emission can be switched between different modes by changing the laser
frequency from the blue to red detuned from the atomic resonance. The effect of
the interatomic interactions is also considered and it is found that in the
case of unequal resonance frequencies of the atoms, the interactions slightly
modify the visibility of the intensity pattern. The case of unequal damping
rates of the atoms is affected rather more drastically, the light routing
becoming asymmetric under the dipole-dipole interaction with the enhanced
intensities of the modes turned towards the atom of smaller damping rate.