In this thesis we consider the problem of information hiding in the scenarios
of interactive systems, statistical disclosure control, and refinement of
specifications. We apply quantitative approaches to information flow in the
first two cases, and we propose improvements for the usual solutions based on
process equivalences for the third case. In the first scenario we consider the
problem of defining the information leakage in interactive systems where
secrets and observables can alternate during the computation and influence each
other. We show that the information-theoretic approach which interprets such
systems as (simple) noisy channels is not valid. The principle can be recovered
if we consider channels with memory and feedback. We also propose the use of
directed information from input to output as the real measure of leakage in
interactive systems. In the second scenario we consider the problem of
statistical disclosure control, which concerns how to reveal accurate
statistics about a set of respondents while preserving the privacy of
individuals. We focus on the concept of differential privacy, a notion that has
become very popular in the database community. We show how to model the query
system in terms of an information-theoretic channel, and we compare the notion
of differential privacy with that of min-entropy leakage.In the third scenario
we address the problem of using process equivalences to characterize
information-hiding properties. We show that, in the presence of nondeterminism,
this approach may rely on the assumption that the scheduler "works for the
benefit of the protocol", and this is often not a safe assumption. We present a
formalism in which we can specify admissible schedulers and, correspondingly,
safe versions of complete-trace equivalence and bisimulation, and we show that
safe equivalences can be used to establish information-hiding properties.