Very recently, the Large Hadron Collider was turned on. There, the
experiments are aiming to test different scenarios for elementary particles
interactions from SUSY, Extra dimensions to others. In fact, SUSY was invented
to kill the conceptual problems existing in the conventional Standard model
\textit{i.e.} the Hierarchy problem. However, in recent years, certain theories
which was rejected in the past like the wrong sign $\phi^{4}$ theory is now
well known to be a truly physically acceptable theory. Here, we analyze the
renormalization group flow of the different parameters in the theory. We find
that, rather than the conventional $\phi^{4}$ theory and because the theory is
asymptotically free, it does not sufferer from the catastrophic blow up of the
mass parameter for UV scales. This feature greatly recommend that this theory
is a plausible candidate to play the role of the $SU(2)\times U(1)$ symmetry
breaking in the standard model. If this picture will agree with the
experimental results from LHC, then the Higgs particle was massless in the far
past. Moreover, the cosmological constant problem as a Hierarchy problem may be
solved too. However, when trying to calculate the metric operator, we expected
that the equivalent Hermitian theory may attain non-remormalizabe terms and
thus the theory is incalculable. In fact, we show that there exists a Hermitian
and renormalizable equivalent theory though of indefinite metric. We
reformulated the Klein-Gordon equation in such a way that the wrong sign in the
propagator attains a new physical meaning that the Higgs particle is made from
exotic matter.