The beyond worst-case threshold problem (BWC), recently introduced by
Bruy\`ere et al., asks given a quantitative game graph for the synthesis of a
strategy that i) enforces some minimal level of performance against any
adversary, and ii) achieves a good expectation against a stochastic model of
the adversary. They solved the BWC problem for finite-memory strategies and
unidimensional mean-payoff objectives and they showed membership of the problem
in NP$\cap$coNP. They also noted that infinite-memory strategies are more
powerful than finite-memory ones, but the respective threshold problem was left
open. We extend these results in several directions. First, we consider
multidimensional mean-payoff objectives. Second, we study both finite-memory
and infinite-memory strategies. We show that the multidimensional BWC problem
is coNP-complete in both cases. Third, in the special case when the worst-case
objective is unidimensional (but the expectation objective is still
multidimensional) we show that the complexity decreases to NP$\cap$coNP. This
solves the infinite-memory threshold problem left open by Bruy\`ere et al., and
this complexity cannot be improved without improving the currently known
complexity of classical mean-payoff games. Finally, we introduce a natural
relaxation of the BWC problem, the beyond almost-sure threshold problem (BAS),
which asks for the synthesis of a strategy that ensures some minimal level of
performance with probability one and a good expectation against the stochastic
model of the adversary. We show that the multidimensional BAS threshold problem
is solvable in P.