We study the quickest detection problem of a sudden change in the arrival
rate of a Poisson process from a known value to an unknown and unobservable
value at an unknown and unobservable disorder time. Our objective is to design
an alarm time which is adapted to the history of the arrival process and
detects the disorder time as soon as possible. In previous solvable versions of
the Poisson disorder problem, the arrival rate after the disorder has been
assumed a known constant. In reality, however, we may at most have some prior
information about the likely values of the new arrival rate before the disorder
actually happens, and insufficient estimates of the new rate after the disorder
happens. Consequently, we assume in this paper that the new arrival rate after
the disorder is a random variable. The detection problem is shown to admit a
finite-dimensional Markovian sufficient statistic, if the new rate has a
discrete distribution with finitely many atoms. Furthermore, the detection
problem is cast as a discounted optimal stopping problem with running cost for
a finite-dimensional piecewise-deterministic Markov process. This optimal
stopping problem is studied in detail in the special case where the new arrival
rate has Bernoulli distribution. This is a nontrivial optimal stopping problem
for a two-dimensional piecewise-deterministic Markov process driven by the same
point process. Using a suitable single-jump operator, we solve it fully,
describe the analytic properties of the value function and the stopping region,
and present methods for their numerical calculation. We provide a concrete
example where the value function does not satisfy the smooth-fit principle on a
proper subset of the connected, continuously differentiable optimal stopping
boundary, whereas it does on the complement of this set.