Recent works proposed the relaying at the MAC layer in cognitive radio
networks whereby the primary packets are forwarded by the secondary node
maintaining an extra queue devoted to the relaying function. However, relaying
of primary packets may introduce delays on the secondary packets (called
secondary delay) and require additional power budget in order to forward the
primary packets that is especially crucial when the network is deployed using
sensors with limited power resources. To this end, an admission control can be
employed in order to manage efficiently the relaying in cognitive radio sensor
networks. In this paper, we first analyse and formulate the secondary delay and
the required power budget of the secondary sensor node in relation with the
acceptance factor that indicates whether the primary packets are allowed to be
forwarded or not. Having defined the above, we present the tradeoff between the
secondary delay and the required power budget when the acceptance factor is
adapted. In the sequel, we formulate an optimization problem to minimize the
secondary delay over the admission control parameter subject to a limit on the
required power budget plus the constraints related to the stabilities of the
individual queues due to their interdependencies observed by the analysis. The
solution of this problem is provided using iterative decomposition methods i.e.
dual and primal decompositions using Lagrange multipliers that simplifies the
original complicated problem resulting in a final equivalent dual problem that
includes the initial Karush Kuhn Tucker conditions. Using the derived
equivalent dual problem, we obtain the optimal acceptance factor while in
addition we highlight the possibilities for extra delay minimization that is
provided by relaxing the initial constraints through changing the values of the
Lagrange multipliers.