We present a series of almost settled inapproximability results for three
fundamental problems. The first in our series is the subexponential-time
inapproximability of the maximum independent set problem, a question studied in
the area of parameterized complexity. The second is the hardness of
approximating the maximum induced matching problem on bounded-degree bipartite
graphs. The last in our series is the tight hardness of approximating the
k-hypergraph pricing problem, a fundamental problem arising from the area of
algorithmic game theory. In particular, assuming the Exponential Time
Hypothesis, our two main results are:
  - For any r larger than some constant, any r-approximation algorithm for the
maximum independent set problem must run in at least
2^{n^{1-\epsilon}/r^{1+\epsilon}} time. This nearly matches the upper bound of
2^{n/r} (Cygan et al., 2008). It also improves some hardness results in the
domain of parameterized complexity (e.g., Escoffier et al., 2012 and Chitnis et
al., 2013)
  - For any k larger than some constant, there is no polynomial time min
(k^{1-\epsilon}, n^{1/2-\epsilon})-approximation algorithm for the k-hypergraph
pricing problem, where n is the number of vertices in an input graph. This
almost matches the upper bound of min (O(k), \tilde O(\sqrt{n})) (by Balcan and
Blum, 2007 and an algorithm in this paper).
  We note an interesting fact that, in contrast to n^{1/2-\epsilon} hardness
for polynomial-time algorithms, the k-hypergraph pricing problem admits
n^{\delta} approximation for any \delta >0 in quasi-polynomial time. This puts
this problem in a rare approximability class in which approximability
thresholds can be improved significantly by allowing algorithms to run in
quasi-polynomial time.