Tikhonov regularization for projected solutions of large-scale ill-posed
problems is considered. The Golub-Kahan iterative bidiagonalization is used to
project the problem onto a subspace and regularization then applied to find a
subspace approximation to the full problem. Determination of the regularization
parameter using the method of unbiased predictive risk estimation is considered
and contrasted with the generalized cross validation and discrepancy principle
techniques. Examining the unbiased predictive risk estimator for the projected
problem, it is shown that the obtained regularized parameter provides a good
estimate for that to be used for the full problem with the solution found on
the projected space. The connection between regularization for full and
projected systems for the discrepancy and generalized cross validation
estimators is also discussed and an argument for the weight parameter in the
weighted generalized cross validation approach is provided. All results are
independent of whether systems are over or underdetermined, the latter of which
has not been considered in discussions of regularization parameter estimation
for projected systems. Numerical simulations for standard one dimensional test
problems and two dimensional data for both image restoration and tomographic
image reconstruction support the analysis and validate the techniques. The size
of the projected problem is found using an extension of a noise revealing
function for the projected problem. Furthermore, an iteratively reweighted
regularization approach for edge preserving regularization is extended for
projected systems, providing stabilization of the solutions of the projected
systems with respect to the determination of the size of the projected
subspace.