This scientific paper delves into the problems related to the develop-ment of
intellectual data analysis system that could support decision making to manage
municipal power supply services. The management problems of mu-nicipal power
supply system have been specified taking into consideration modern tendencies
shown by new technologies that allow for an increase in the energy efficiency.
The analysis findings of the system problems related to the integrated
computer-aided control of the power supply for the city have been given. The
consideration was given to the hierarchy-level management decom-position model.
The objective task targeted at an increase in the energy effi-ciency to
minimize expenditures and energy losses during the generation and
transportation of energy carriers to the Consumer, the optimization of power
consumption at the prescribed level of the reliability of pipelines and
networks and the satisfaction of Consumers has been defined. To optimize the
support of the decision making a new approach to the monitoring of engineering
systems and technological processes related to the energy consumption and
transporta-tion using the technologies of geospatial analysis and Knowledge
Discovery in databases (KDD) has been proposed. The data acquisition for
analytical prob-lems is realized in the wireless heterogeneous medium, which
includes soft-touch VPN segments of ZigBee technology realizing the 6LoWPAN
standard over the IEEE 802.15.4 standard and also the segments of the networks
of cellu-lar communications. JBoss Application Server is used as a server-based
plat-form for the operation of the tools used for the retrieval of data
collected from sensor nodes, PLC and energy consumption record devices. The KDD
tools are developed using Java Enterprise Edition platform and Spring and ORM
Hiber-nate technologies.