Swarm dynamics is the study of collections of agents that interact with one
another without central control. In natural systems, insects, birds, fish and
other large mammals function in larger units to increase the overall fitness of
the individuals. Their behavior is coordinated through local interactions to
enhance mate selection, predator detection, migratory route identification and
so forth [Andersson and Wallander 2003; Buhl et al. 2006; Nagy et al. 2010;
Partridge 1982; Sumpter et al. 2008]. In artificial systems, swarms of
autonomous agents can augment human activities such as search and rescue, and
environmental monitoring by covering large areas with multiple nodes [Alami et
al. 2007; Caruso et al. 2008; Ogren et al. 2004; Paley et al. 2007; Sibley et
al. 2002]. In this paper, we explore the interplay between swarm dynamics,
covert leadership and theoretical information transfer. A leader is a member of
the swarm that acts upon information in addition to what is provided by local
interactions. Depending upon the leadership model, leaders can use their
external information either all the time or in response to local conditions
[Couzin et al. 2005; Sun et al. 2013]. A covert leader is a leader that is
treated no differently than others in the swarm, so leaders and followers
participate equally in whatever interaction model is used [Rossi et al. 2007].
In this study, we use theoretical information transfer as a means of analyzing
swarm interactions to explore whether or not it is possible to distinguish
between followers and leaders based on interactions within the swarm. We find
that covert leaders can be distinguished from followers in a swarm because they
receive less transfer entropy than followers.