Centering was formulated as a model of the relationship between attentional
state, the form of referring expressions, and the coherence of an utterance
within a discourse segment (Grosz, Joshi and Weinstein, 1986; Grosz, Joshi and
Weinstein, 1995). In this chapter, I argue that the restriction of centering to
operating within a discourse segment should be abandoned in order to integrate
centering with a model of global discourse structure. The within-segment
restriction causes three problems. The first problem is that centers are often
continued over discourse segment boundaries with pronominal referring
expressions whose form is identical to those that occur within a discourse
segment. The second problem is that recent work has shown that listeners
perceive segment boundaries at various levels of granularity. If centering
models a universal processing phenomenon, it is implausible that each listener
is using a different centering algorithm.The third issue is that even for
utterances within a discourse segment, there are strong contrasts between
utterances whose adjacent utterance within a segment is hierarchically recent
and those whose adjacent utterance within a segment is linearly recent. This
chapter argues that these problems can be eliminated by replacing Grosz and
Sidner's stack model of attentional state with an alternate model, the cache
model. I show how the cache model is easily integrated with the centering
algorithm, and provide several types of data from naturally occurring
discourses that support the proposed integrated model. Future work should
provide additional support for these claims with an examination of a larger
corpus of naturally occurring discourses.