In presence of a synthetic non-Abelian gauge field that induces a Rashba like
spin-orbit interaction, a collection of weakly interacting fermions undergoes a
crossover from a BCS ground state to a BEC ground state when the strength of
the gauge field is increased [Phys. Rev. B {\bf 84}, 014512 (2011)]. The BEC
that is obtained at large gauge coupling strengths is a condensate of tightly
bound bosonic fermion-pairs whose properties are solely determined by the
Rashba gauge field -- hence called rashbons. In this paper, we conduct a
systematic study of the properties of rashbons and their dispersion. This study
reveals a new qualitative aspect of the problem of interacting fermions in
non-Abelian gauge fields, i.e., that the rashbon state induced by the gauge
field for small centre of mass momenta of the fermions ceases to exist when
this momentum exceeds a critical value which is of the order of the gauge
coupling strength. The study allows us to estimate the transition temperature
of the rashbon BEC, and suggests a route to enhance the exponentially small
transition temperature of the system with a fixed weak attraction to the order
of the Fermi temperature by tuning the strength of the non-Abelian gauge field.
The nature of the rashbon dispersion, and in particular the absence of the
rashbon states at large momenta, suggests a regime of parameter space where the
normal state of the system will be a dynamical mixture of uncondensed rashbons
and unpaired helical fermions. Such a state should show many novel features
including pseudogap physics.