We propose and describe a magnetic NanoFabric which provides a route to
building reconfigurable spin-based logic circuits compatible with conventional
electron-based devices. A distinctive feature of the proposed NanoFabric is
that a bit of information is encoded into the phase of the spin wave signal. It
makes possible to transmit information without the use of electric current and
utilize wave interference for useful logic functionality. The basic elements
include voltage-to-spin wave and wave-to-voltage converters, spin waveguides, a
modulator, and a magnetoelectric cell. As an example of a magnetoelectric cell,
we consider a two-phase piezoelectric-piezomagnetic system, where the spin wave
signal modulation is due to the stress-induced anisotropy caused by the applied
electric field. The performance of the basic elements is illustrated by
experimental data and results of numerical modeling. The combination of the
basic elements let us construct magnetic circuits for NOT and Majority logic
gates. Logic gates AND, OR, NAND and NOR are shown to be constructed as the
combination of NOT and a reconfigurable Majority gates. The examples of
computational architectures such as Cellular Automata, Cellular Nonlinear
Network and Field Programmable Gate Array are described. The main advantage of
the proposed NanoFabric is in the ability to realize logic gates with less
number of devices than it required for CMOS-based circuits. Potentially, the
area of the elementary reconfigurable Majority gate can be scaled down to
0.1um2. The disadvantages and limitations of the proposed NanoFabric are
discussed.