The problem of the late accretion phase of the evolution of an axisymmetric,
isothermal magnetic disk surrounding a forming star has been formulated in a
companion paper. The "central sink approximation" is used to circumvent the
problem of describing the evolution inside the opaque central region for
densities greater than 10^11 cm^-3 and radii smaller than a few AUs. Only the
electrons are assumed to be attached to the magnetic field lines, and the
effects of both negatively and positively charged grains are accounted for.
After a mass of 0.1 solar mass accumulates in the central cell (forming star),
a series of magnetically driven outflows and associated outward propagating
shocks form in a quasi-periodic fashion. As a result, mass accretion onto the
protostar occurs in magnetically controlled bursts. We refer to this process as
spasmodic accretion. The shocks propagate outward with supermagnetosonic
speeds. The period of dissipation and revival of the outflow decreases in time,
as the mass accumulated in the central sink increases. We evaluate the
contribution of ambipolar diffusion to the resolution of the magnetic flux
problem of star formation during the accretion phase, and we find it to be very
significant although not sufficient to resolve the entire problem yet. Ohmic
dissipation is completely negligible in the disk during this phase of the
evolution. The protostellar disk is found to be stable against interchange-like
instabilities, despite the fact that the mass-to-flux ratio has temporary local
maxima.