Commercial cities like Colombo constantly face to problem of traffic
congestion due to the large number of people visiting the city for various
reasons. Also these cities have a large number of roads with many roads
connecting any two selected locations. Finding the best path between two
locations in Colombo city is not a trivial task, due to the complexity of the
road network and other reasons such as heavy traffic, changes to the road
networks such as road closures and one-ways. This paper presents the results of
a study carried out to understand this problem and development of a system to
plan the travel way ahead of the planned day or time of the journey. This
system can compute the best route from between two locations taking multiple
factors such as traffic conditions, road closures or one-way declarations etc.,
into account. This system also has the capability to compute the best route
between any two locations on a future date based on the road conditions on that
date. The system comprises three main modules and two user interfaces one for
normal users and the other for administrators. The Administrative interface can
only be accessed via web browser running on a computer, while the other
interface can be accessed either via a web browser or a GPRS enabled mobile
phone. The system is powered mainly by the Geographic Information System (GIS)
technology and the other supporting technologies used are database management
system, ASP.Net technology and the GPRS technology. Finally the developed
system was evaluated for its functionality and user friendliness using a user
survey. The results of the survey are also presented in this paper.