Travel sharing, i.e., the problem of finding parts of routes which can be
shared by several travellers with different points of departure and
destinations, is a complex multiagent problem that requires taking into account
individual agents' preferences to come up with mutually acceptable joint plans.
In this paper, we apply state-of-the-art planning techniques to real-world
public transportation data to evaluate the feasibility of multiagent planning
techniques in this domain. The potential application value of improving travel
sharing technology has great application value due to its ability to reduce the
environmental impact of travelling while providing benefits to travellers at
the same time. We propose a three-phase algorithm that utilises performant
single-agent planners to find individual plans in a simplified domain first,
then merges them using a best-response planner which ensures resulting
solutions are individually rational, and then maps the resulting plan onto the
full temporal planning domain to schedule actual journeys. The evaluation of
our algorithm on real-world, multi-modal public transportation data for the
United Kingdom shows linear scalability both in the scenario size and in the
number of agents, where trade-offs have to be made between total cost
improvement, the percentage of feasible timetables identified for journeys, and
the prolongation of these journeys. Our system constitutes the first
implementation of strategic multiagent planning algorithms in large-scale
domains and provides insights into the engineering process of translating
general domain-independent multiagent planning algorithms to real-world
applications.