VMAT optimization is a computationally challenging problem due to its large
data size, high degrees of freedom, and many hardware constraints.
High-performance graphics processing units have been used to speed up the
computations. However, its small memory size cannot handle cases with a large
dose-deposition coefficient (DDC) matrix. This paper is to report an
implementation of our column-generation based VMAT algorithm on a multi-GPU
platform to solve the memory limitation problem. The column-generation approach
generates apertures sequentially by solving a pricing problem (PP) and a master
problem (MP) iteratively. The DDC matrix is split into four sub-matrices
according to beam angles, stored on four GPUs in compressed sparse row format.
Computation of beamlet price is accomplished using multi-GPU. While the
remaining steps of PP and MP problems are implemented on a single GPU due to
their modest computational loads. A H&N patient case was used to validate our
method. We compare our multi-GPU implementation with three single GPU
implementation strategies: truncating DDC matrix (S1), repeatedly transferring
DDC matrix between CPU and GPU (S2), and porting computations involving DDC
matrix to CPU (S3). Two more H&N patient cases and three prostate cases were
also used to demonstrate the advantages of our method. Our multi-GPU
implementation can finish the optimization within ~1 minute for the H&N patient
case. S1 leads to an inferior plan quality although its total time was 10
seconds shorter than the multi-GPU implementation. S2 and S3 yield same plan
quality as the multi-GPU implementation but take ~4 minutes and ~6 minutes,
respectively. High computational efficiency was consistently achieved for the
other 5 cases. The results demonstrate that the multi-GPU implementation can
handle the large-scale VMAT optimization problem efficiently without
sacrificing plan quality.