Context. Mass-loss, occurring through radiation driven supersonic winds, is a
key issue throughout the evolution of massive stars. Two outstanding problems
are currently challenging the theory of radiation-driven winds: wind clumping
and the weak-wind problem. Aims. We seek to obtain accurate mass-loss rates of
OB stars at different evolutionary stages to constrain the impact of both
problems in our current understanding of massive star winds. Methods. We
perform a multi-wavelength quantitative analysis of a sample of ten Galactic
OB-stars by means of the atmospheric code CMFGEN, with special emphasis on the
L-band window. A detailed investigation is carried out on the potential of
Br\alpha\ and Pf\gamma\ as mass-loss and clumping diagnostics. Results. For
objects with dense winds, Br\alpha\ samples the intermediate wind while
Pf\gamma\ maps the inner one. In combination with other indicators (UV,
H\alpha, Br\gamma) these lines enable us to constrain the wind clumping
structure and to obtain "true" mass-loss rates. For objects with weak winds,
Br\alpha\ emerges as a reliable diagnostic tool to constrain the mass-loss
rates. The emission component at the line Doppler-core superimposed on the
rather shallow Stark absorption wings reacts very sensitively to mass loss
already at very low mass-loss values. On the other hand, the line wings display
similar sensitivity to mass loss as H\alpha, the classical optical mass loss
diagnostics. Conclusions. Our investigation reveals the great diagnostic
potential of L-band spectroscopy to derive clumping properties and mass-loss
rates of hot star winds. We are confident that Br\alpha\ will become the
primary diagnostic tool to measure very low mass-loss rates with unprecedented
accuracy