We examine the minimal magnitude of perturbations necessary to change the
number $N$ of static equilibrium points of a convex solid $K$. We call the
normalized volume of the minimally necessary truncation robustness and we seek
shapes with maximal robustness for fixed values of $N$. While the upward
robustness (referring to the increase of $N$) of smooth, homogeneous convex
solids is known to be zero, little is known about their downward robustness.
The difficulty of the latter problem is related to the coupling (via integrals)
between the geometry of the hull $\bd K$ and the location of the center of
gravity $G$. Here we first investigate two simpler, decoupled problems by
examining truncations of $\bd K$ with $G$ fixed, and displacements of $G$ with
$\bd K$ fixed, leading to the concept of external \rm and internal \rm
robustness, respectively. In dimension 2, we find that for any fixed number
$N=2S$, the convex solids with both maximal external and maximal internal
robustness are regular $S$-gons. Based on this result we conjecture that
regular polygons have maximal downward robustness also in the original, coupled
problem. We also show that in the decoupled problems, 3-dimensional regular
polyhedra have maximal internal robustness, however, only under additional
constraints. Finally, we prove results for the full problem in case of 3
dimensional solids. These results appear to explain why monostatic pebbles
(with either one stable, or one unstable point of equilibrium) are found so
rarely in Nature.