In recent advances in solving the problem of transmission network expansion
planning, the use of robust optimization techniques has been put forward, as an
alternative to stochastic mathematical programming methods, to make the problem
tractable in realistic systems. Different sources of uncertainty have been
considered, mainly related to the capacity and availability of generation
facilities and demand, and making use of adaptive robust optimization models.
The mathematical formulations for these models give rise to three-level
mixed-integer optimization problems, which are solved using different
strategies. Although it is true that these robust methods are more efficient
than their stochastic counterparts, it is also correct that solution times for
mixed-integer linear programming problems increase exponentially with respect
to the size of the problem. Because of this, practitioners and system operators
need to use computationally efficient methods when solving this type of
problem. In this paper the issue of improving computational performance by
taking different features from existing algorithms is addressed. In particular,
we replace the lower-level problem with a dual one, and solve the resulting
bi-level problem using a primal cutting plane algorithm within a decomposition
scheme. By using this alternative and simple approach, the computing time for
solving transmission expansion planning problems has been reduced drastically.
Numerical results in an illustrative example, the IEEE-24 and IEEE 118-bus test
systems demonstrate that the algorithm is superior in terms of computational
performance with respect to existing methods.