In the online labeling problem with parameters n and m we are presented with
a sequence of n keys from a totally ordered universe U and must assign each
arriving key a label from the label set {1,2,...,m} so that the order of labels
(strictly) respects the ordering on U. As new keys arrive it may be necessary
to change the labels of some items; such changes may be done at any time at
unit cost for each change. The goal is to minimize the total cost. An
alternative formulation of this problem is the file maintenance problem, in
which the items, instead of being labeled, are maintained in sorted order in an
array of length m, and we pay unit cost for moving an item.
  For the case m=cn for constant c>1, there are known algorithms that use at
most O(n log(n)^2) relabelings in total [Itai, Konheim, Rodeh, 1981], and it
was shown recently that this is asymptotically optimal [Bul\'anek, Kouck\'y,
Saks, 2012]. For the case of m={\Theta}(n^C) for C>1, algorithms are known that
use O(n log n) relabelings. A matching lower bound was claimed in [Dietz,
Seiferas, Zhang, 2004]. That proof involved two distinct steps: a lower bound
for a problem they call prefix bucketing and a reduction from prefix bucketing
to online labeling. The reduction seems to be incorrect, leaving a (seemingly
significant) gap in the proof. In this paper we close the gap by presenting a
correct reduction to prefix bucketing. Furthermore we give a simplified and
improved analysis of the prefix bucketing lower bound. This improvement allows
us to extend the lower bounds for online labeling to the case where the number
m of labels is superpolynomial in n. In particular, for superpolynomial m we
get an asymptotically optimal lower bound {\Omega}((n log n) / (log log m - log
log n)).