Under weak regularity assumptions, only, we develop a fully geometric theory
of vacuum Einstein spacetimes with T2 symmetry, establish the global
well-posedness of the initial value problem for Einstein's field equations, and
investigate the global causal structure of the constructed spacetimes. Our weak
regularity assumptions are the minimal ones allowing to give a meaning to the
Einstein equations under the assumed symmetry and to solve the initial value
problem. First of all, we introduce a frame adapted to the symmetry in which
each Christoffel symbol can be checked to belong to some Lp space. We identify
certain cancellation properties taking place in the expression of the Riemann
and Ricci curvatures, and this leads us to a reformulation of the initial value
problem for the Einstein field equations when the initial data set has weak
regularity. Second, we investigate the future development of a weakly regular
initial data set. We check that the area R of the orbits of symmetry must grow
to infinity in the future timelike directions, and we establish the existence
of a global foliation by the level sets of R. Our weak regularity assumptions
only require that R is Lipschitz continuous while the metric coefficients
describing the initial geometry of the orbits of symmetry are in the Sobolev
space H1 and the remaining coefficients have even weaker regularity. We develop
here the compactness arguments required to cover the natural level of
regularity associated with the energy of the system of partial differential
equations determined from Einstein's field equations.