This paper describes and analyzes a hierarchical gossip algorithm for solving
the distributed average consensus problem in wireless sensor networks. The
network is recursively partitioned into subnetworks. Initially, nodes at the
finest scale gossip to compute local averages. Then, using geographic routing
to enable gossip between nodes that are not directly connected, these local
averages are progressively fused up the hierarchy until the global average is
computed. We show that the proposed hierarchical scheme with $k$ levels of
hierarchy is competitive with state-of-the-art randomized gossip algorithms, in
terms of message complexity, achieving $\epsilon$-accuracy with high
probability after $O\big(n \log \log n \log \frac{kn}{\epsilon} \big)$
messages. Key to our analysis is the way in which the network is recursively
partitioned. We find that the optimal scaling law is achieved when subnetworks
at scale $j$ contain $O(n^{(2/3)^j})$ nodes; then the message complexity at any
individual scale is $O(n \log \frac{kn}{\epsilon})$, and the total number of
scales in the hierarchy grows slowly, as $\Theta(\log \log n)$. Another
important consequence of hierarchical construction is that the longest distance
over which messages are exchanged is $O(n^{1/3})$ hops (at the highest scale),
and most messages (at lower scales) travel shorter distances. In networks that
use link-level acknowledgements, this results in less congestion and resource
usage by reducing message retransmissions. Simulations illustrate that the
proposed scheme is more message-efficient than existing state-of-the-art
randomized gossip algorithms based on averaging along paths.