Given a graph where vertices represent alternatives and arcs represent
pairwise comparison data, the statistical ranking problem is to find a
potential function, defined on the vertices, such that the gradient of the
potential function agrees with the pairwise comparisons. Our goal in this paper
is to develop a method for collecting data for which the least squares
estimator for the ranking problem has maximal Fisher information. Our approach,
based on experimental design, is to view data collection as a bi-level
optimization problem where the inner problem is the ranking problem and the
outer problem is to identify data which maximizes the informativeness of the
ranking. Under certain assumptions, the data collection problem decouples,
reducing to a problem of finding multigraphs with large algebraic connectivity.
This reduction of the data collection problem to graph-theoretic questions is
one of the primary contributions of this work. As an application, we study the
Yahoo! Movie user rating dataset and demonstrate that the addition of a small
number of well-chosen pairwise comparisons can significantly increase the
Fisher informativeness of the ranking. As another application, we study the
2011-12 NCAA football schedule and propose schedules with the same number of
games which are significantly more informative. Using spectral clustering
methods to identify highly-connected communities within the division, we argue
that the NCAA could improve its notoriously poor rankings by simply scheduling
more out-of-conference games.