In the online random-arrival model, an algorithm receives a sequence of n
requests that arrive in a random order. The algorithm is expected to make an
irrevocable decision with regard to each request based only on the observed
history. We consider the following natural extension of this model: each
request arrives k times, and the arrival order is a random permutation of the
kn arrivals; the algorithm is expected to make a decision regarding each
request only upon its last arrival. We focus primarily on the case when k=2,
which can also be interpreted as each request arriving at, and departing from
the system, at a random time. We examine the secretary problem: the problem of
selecting the best secretary when the secretaries are presented online
according to a random permutation. We show that when each secretary arrives
twice, we can achieve a competitive ratio of ~0.768 (compared to 1/e in the
classical secretary problem), and that it is optimal. We also show that without
any knowledge about the number of secretaries or their arrival times, we can
still hire the best secretary with probability at least 2/3, in contrast to the
impossibility of achieving a constant success probability in the classical
setting. We extend our results to the matroid secretary problem, introduced by
Babaioff et al., (2007) and show a simple algorithm that achieves a
2-approximation to the maximal weighted basis in the new model (for k=2). We
show that this approximation factor can be improved in special cases of the
matroid secretary problem; in particular, we give a 16/9-competitive algorithm
for the returning edge-weighted bipartite matching problem.