The new representation of the Coulomb three-body wave function via the
well-known solutions of the separable Coulomb two-centre problem
$\phi_j(\xi,\eta)=X_j(\xi)Y_j(\eta)$ is obtained, where $X_j(\xi)$ and
$Y_j(\eta)$ are the Coulomb spheroidal functions. Its distinguishing
characteristic is the coordination with the boundary conditions of the
scattering problem below the three-particle breakup. That is, the wave function
of the scattering particles in any open channel is the asymptotics of the
single, corresponding to that channel, term of the expansion suggested. The
effect is achieved due to the new relation between three internal coordinates
of the three-body system and the parameters of $\phi_j(\xi,\eta)$. It ensures
the orthogonality of $\phi_j(\xi,\eta)$ on the sphere of a constant
hyperradius, $\rho=const$, in place of the surface
$R=|\bi{x}_2-\bi{x}_1|=const$ appearing in the traditional Born-Oppenheimer
approach. The independent variables $\xi$ and $\eta$ are the orthogonal
coordinates on that sphere with three poles in the coalescence points. They are
connected with the elliptic coordinates on the plane by means of the
stereographic projection. For the total angular momentum $J\ge 0$ the products
of $\phi_j$ and the Wigner $D$-functions form the hyperspherical Coulomb
spheroidal (HSCS) basis on the five-dimensional hypersphere, $\rho$ being a
parameter. The system of the differential equations and the boundary conditions
for the radial functions $f^J_i(\rho)$, the coefficients of the HSCS
decomposition of the three-body wave function, are presented.