Now that the properties of the ground state of quantum-mechanical many-body
systems (bosons) at low density, $\rho$, can be examined experimentally it is
appropriate to revisit some of the formulas deduced by many contributors 4-5 decades
ago. One of these is that the leading term in the energy/particle is $4\pi a
\rho$ where $a$ is the scattering length of the 2-body potential. Owing to the
delicate and peculiar nature of bosonic correlations (such as the strange
$N^{7/5}$ law for charged bosons), four decades of research failed to establish
this plausible formula rigorously. The only previous lower bound for the energy
was found by Dyson in 1957, but it was 14 times too small. The correct
asymptotic formula has recently been obtained jointly with J. Yngvason and this
work will be presented. The reason behind the mathematical difficulties will be
emphasized. A different formula, postulated as late as 1971 by Schick, holds in
two-dimensions and this, too, will be shown to be correct. Another problem of
great interest is the existence of Bose-Einstein condensation, and what little
is known about this rigorously will also be discussed. With the aid of the
methodology developed to prove the lower bound for the homogeneous gas, two
other problems have been successfully addressed. One is the proof (with
Yngvason and Seiringer) that the Gross-Pitaevskii equation correctly describes
the ground state in the `traps' actually used in the experiments. The other is
a very recent proof (with Solovej) that Foldy's 1961 theory of a high density
gas of charged particles correctly describes its ground state energy.