In this paper we analyze the predictions of the forward approximation in some
models which exhibit an Anderson (single-) or many-body localized phase. This
approximation, which consists in summing over the amplitudes of only the
shortest paths in the locator expansion, is known to over-estimate the critical
value of the disorder which determines the onset of the many body localized
phase. Nevertheless, the results provided by the approximation become more and
more accurate as the local coordination (dimensionality) of the graph, defined
by the hopping matrix, is made larger. In this sense, the forward approximation
can be regarded as a mean field theory for the Anderson transition in infinite
dimensions. The sum can be efficiently computed using transfer matrix
techniques, and the results are compared with the most precise exact
diagonalization results available.
  For the Anderson problem, we find a critical value of the disorder which is
$0.9\%$ off the most precise available numerical value already in 5 spatial
dimensions, while for the many-body localized phase of the Heisenberg model
with random fields the critical disorder $h_c=4.0\pm 0.3$ is strikingly close
to the most recent results obtained by exact diagonalization. The most
significant difference we find is that, while in the single-particle problem
the final amplitude is mostly determined by the contribution of a single path,
in the many-body problem cancellations are quite important and a factorial
number of paths is responsible for an exponentially growing (or decreasing)
amplitude. We comment also on the connections of our results with the problem
of directed polymers in random medium in higher dimensions.