Let $\mathcal{H}_\infty$ be the set of all ordinary Dirichlet series
$D=\sum_n a_n n^{-s}$ representing bounded holomorphic functions on the right
half plane. A multiplicative sequence $(b_n)$ of complex numbers is said to be
an $\ell_1$-multiplier for $\mathcal{H}_\infty$ whenever $\sum_n |a_n b_n| <
\infty$ for every $D \in \mathcal{H}_\infty$. We study the problem of
describing such sequences
  $(b_n)$ in terms of the asymptotic decay of the subsequence $(b_{p_j})$,
where $p_j$ denotes the $j$th prime number. Given a multiplicative sequence
$b=(b_n)$ we prove (among other results): $b$ is an $\ell_1$-multiplier for
$\mathcal{H}_\infty$ provided $|b_{p_j}| < 1$ for all $j$ and
$\overline{\lim}_n \frac{1}{\log n} \sum_{j=1}^n b_{p_j}^{*2} < 1$, and
conversely, if $b$ is an $\ell_1$-multiplier for $\mathcal{H}_\infty$, then
$|b_{p_j}| < 1$ for all $j$ and $\overline{\lim}_n \frac{1}{\log n}
\sum_{j=1}^n b_{p_j}^{*2} \leq 1$ (here $b^*$ stands for the decreasing
rearrangement of $b$).
  Following an ingenious idea of Harald Bohr it turns out that this problem is
intimately related with the question of characterizing those sequences $z$ in
the infinite dimensional polydisk $\mathbb{D}^\infty$ (the open unit ball of
$\ell_\infty$) for which every bounded and holomorphic function $f$ on
$\mathbb{D}^\infty$ has an absolutely convergent monomial series expansion
$\sum_{\alpha} \frac{\partial_\alpha f(0)}{\alpha!} z^\alpha$. Moreover, we
study analogous problems in Hardy spaces of Dirichlet series and Hardy spaces
of functions on the infinite dimensional polytorus $\mathbb{T}^\infty$.