The search for linear kernels for the Dominating Set problem on classes of
graphs of a topological nature has been one of the leading trends in
kernelization in recent years. Following the fundamental work of Alber et al.
that established a linear kernel for the problem on planar graphs, linear
kernels have been given for bounded-genus graphs, apex-minor-free graphs,
$H$-minor-free graphs, and $H$-topological-minor-free graphs. These
generalizations are based on bidimensionality and powerful decomposition
theorems for $H$-minor-free graphs and $H$-topological-minor-free graphs of
Robertson and Seymour and of Grohe and Marx.
  In this work we investigate a new approach to kernelization for Dominating
Set on sparse graph classes. The approach is based on the theory of bounded
expansion and nowhere dense graph classes, developed in the recent years by
Ne\v{s}et\v{r}il and Ossona de Mendez, among others. More precisely, we prove
that Dominating Set admits a linear kernel on any hereditary graph class of
bounded expansion and an almost linear kernel on any hereditary nowhere dense
graph class. Since the class of $H$-topological-minor-free graphs has bounded
expansion, our results strongly generalize all the above mentioned works on
kernelization of Dominating Set. At the same time, our algorithms are based on
relatively short and self-contained combinatorial arguments, and do not depend
on bidimensionality or decomposition theorems.
  Finally, we prove that for the closely related Connected Dominating Set
problem, the existence of such kernelization algorithms is unlikely, even
though the problem is known to admit a linear kernel on
$H$-topological-minor-free graphs. Thus, it seems that whereas for Dominating
Set sparsity is enough to guarantee the existence of an efficient kernelization
algorithm, for Connected Dominating Set stronger constraints of topological
nature become necessary.