The Flat Wall Theorem of Robertson and Seymour states that there is some
function $f$, such that for all integers $w,t>1$, every graph $G$ containing a
wall of size $f(w,t)$, must contain either (i) a $K_t$-minor; or (ii) a small
subset $A\subset V(G)$ of vertices, and a flat wall of size $w$ in $G\setminus
A$. Kawarabayashi, Thomas and Wollan recently showed a self-contained proof of
this theorem with the following two sets of parameters: (1)
$f(w,t)=\Theta(t^{24}(t^2+w))$ with $|A|=O(t^{24})$, and (2)
$f(w,t)=w^{2^{\Theta(t^{24})}}$ with $|A|\leq t-5$. The latter result gives the
best possible bound on $|A|$. In this paper we improve their bounds to
$f(w,t)=\Theta(t(t+w))$ with $|A|\leq t-5$. For the special case where the
maximum vertex degree in $G$ is bounded by $D$, we show that, if $G$ contains a
wall of size $\Omega(Dt(t+w))$, then either $G$ contains a $K_t$-minor, or
there is a flat wall of size $w$ in $G$. This setting naturally arises in
algorithms for the Edge-Disjoint Paths problem, with $D\leq 4$. Like the proof
of Kawarabayashi et al., our proof is self-contained, except for using a
well-known theorem on routing pairs of disjoint paths. We also provide
efficient algorithms that return either a model of the $K_t$-minor, or a vertex
set $A$ and a flat wall of size $w$ in $G\setminus A$.
  We complement our result for the low-degree scenario by proving an almost
matching lower bound: namely, for all integers $w,t>1$, there is a graph $G$,
containing a wall of size $\Omega(wt)$, such that the maximum vertex degree in
$G$ is 5, and $G$ contains no flat wall of size $w$, and no $K_t$-minor.