In mobile networks, wireless data broadcast is a powerful approach for
disseminating a large number of data copies to a great number of clients. The
largest weight data retrieval (LWDR) problem, first addressed by
\cite{Infocom12LuEfficient}, is to schedule the download of a specified subset
of data items in a given time interval, such that the weight of the downloaded
items will be maximized.
  In this paper, we present an approximation algorithm with ratio $0.632$ for
LWDR via approximating the maximum sectionalized coverage (MSC) problem, a
generalization of the maximum coverage problem which is one of the most famous
${\cal NP}-$complete problems. Let
$\mathbb{F}=\{\mathbb{F}_{1},\dots,\mathbb{F}_{N}\}$, in which
$\mathbb{F}_{i}=\{S_{i,\, j}\vert j=1,\,2\,\dots\}$ is a collection of subsets
of $S=\{u_{1},\, u_{2},\,\dots,u_{n}\}$, and $w(u_{i})$ be the weight of
$u_{i}$. MSC is to select at most one $S_{i,\, j_{i}}$ from each
$\mathbb{F}_{i}$, such that $\sum_{u_{i}\in S'}w(u_{i})$ is maximized, where
$S'=\underset{i=1}{\overset{N}{\cup}}S_{i,\, j_{i}}$. First, the paper presents
a factor-$0.632$ approximation algorithm for MSC by giving a novel linear
programming (LP) formula and employing the randomized LP rounding technique. By
reducing from the maximum 3 dimensional matching problem, the paper then shows
that MSC is ${\cal NP}-$complete even when every $S\in\mathbb{F}_{i}$ is with
cardinality 2, i.e. $|S|=2$. Last but not the least, the paper gives a method
transforming any instance of LWDR to an instance of MSC, and shows that an
approximation for MSC can be applied to LWDR almost preserving the
approximation ratio. That is a factor-$0.632$ approximation for LWDR, improving
the currently best ratio of $0.5$ in \cite{Infocom12LuEfficient}.