In the companion paper we began the task of systematically studying the
detection of planets in wide orbits ($a > 1.5 R_E$) via microlensing surveys.
In this paper we continue, focusing on repeating events. We find that, if all
planetary systems are similar to our own Solar System, reasonable extensions of
the present observing strategies would allow us to detect 3-6 repeating events
per year along the direction to the Bulge. Indeed, if planetary systems with
multiple planets are common, then future monitoring programs which lead to the
discovery of thousands of stellar-lens events will likely discover events in
which several different planets within a single system serve as lenses, with
light curves exhibiting multiple repetitions. In this paper we discuss
observing strategies to maximize the discovery of all wide-orbit planet-lens
events. We also compare the likely detection rates of planets in wide orbits to
those of planets located in the zone for resonant lensing. We find that,
depending on the values of the planet masses and stellar radii of the lensed
sources (which determine whether or not finite source size is important), and
also on the sensitivity of the photometry used by observers, the detection of
planets in wide orbits may be the primary route to the discovery of planets via
microlensing. We also discuss how the combination of resonant and wide-orbit
events can help us to learn about the distribution of planetary system
properties (S 6.1). In addition, by determining the fraction of short-duration
events due to planets, we indirectly derive information about the fraction of
all short-duration events that may be due to low-mass MACHOs (S 6.2).