Certain two-component reaction-diffusion systems on a finite interval are
known to possess mesa (box-like) steadystate patterns in the singularly
perturbed limit of small diffusivity for one of the two solution components. As
the diffusivity D of the second component is decreased below some critical
value Dc, with Dc = O(1), the existence of a steady-state mesa pattern is lost,
triggering the onset of a mesa self-replication event that ultimately leads to
the creation of additional mesas. The initiation of this phenomena is studied
in detail for a particular scaling limit of the Brusselator model. Near the
existence threshold Dc of a single steady-state mesa, it is shown that an
internal layer forms in the center of the mesa. The structure of the solution
within this internal layer is shown to be governed by a certain core problem,
comprised of a single non-autonomous second-order ODE. By analyzing this core
problem using rigorous and formal asymptotic methods, and by using the Singular
Limit Eigenvalue Problem (SLEP) method to asymptotically calculate small
eigenvalues, an analytical verification of the conditions of Nishiura and
Ueyema [Physica D, 130, No. 1, (1999), pp. 73-104], believed to be responsible
for self-replication, is given. These conditions include: (1) The existence of
a saddle-node threshold at which the steady-state mesa pattern disappears; (2)
the dimple-shaped eigenfunction at the threshold, believed to be responsible
for the initiation of the replication process; and (3) the stability of the
mesa pattern above the existence threshold. Finally, we show that the core
problem is universal in the sense that it pertains to a class of
reaction-diffusion systems, including the Gierer-Meinhardt model with
saturation, where mesa self-replication also occurs.