Several works have outlined the fact that the mobility in intermittently
connected wireless networks is strongly governed by human behaviors as they are
basically human-centered. It has been shown that the users' moves can be
correlated and that the social ties shared by the users highly impact their
mobility patterns and hence the network structure. Tracking these correlations
and measuring the strength of social ties have led us to propose an efficient
distributed tensor-based link prediction technique. In fact, we are convinced
that the feedback provided by such a prediction mechanism can enhance
communication protocols such as opportunistic routing protocols. In this paper,
we aim to bring out that measuring the stabilities of the link and the
proximity at two hops can improve the efficiency of the proposed link
prediction technique. To quantify these two parameters, we propose an entropy
estimator in order to measure the two stability aspects over successive time
periods. Then, we join these entropy estimations to the tensor-based link
prediction framework by designing new prediction metrics. To assess the
contribution of these entropy estimations in the enhancement of tensor-based
link prediction efficiency, we perform prediction on two real traces. Our
simulation results show that by exploiting the information corresponding to the
link stability and/or to the proximity stability, the performance of the
tensor-based link prediction technique is improved. Moreover, the results
attest that our proposal's ability to outperform other well-known prediction
metrics.