In massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems that operate with
high bandwidths, it may not be power efficient to have a high-resolution
analog-to-digital converter (ADC) for each antenna element. In this paper, a
near maximum likelihood (nML) detector for uplink multiuser massive MIMO
systems is proposed where each antenna is connected to a pair of one-bit ADCs,
i.e., one for each real and imaginary component of the baseband signal. To
achieve low complexity in the proposed nML detector, a strict constraint on the
possible transmitted symbols in the original maximum likelihood (ML) detection
problem is relaxed to formulate an ML estimation problem. Then, the ML
estimation problem is converted into a convex optimization problem which can be
efficiently solved. After obtaining the ML estimate by solving the convex
problem, the base station can perform simple symbol-by-symbol detection for the
transmitted signals from multiple users. The minimum required number of receive
antennas for detectors using one-bit ADCs to work is also discussed. Numerical
results show that the proposed nML detector is efficient enough to
simultaneously support multiple uplink users adopting higher-order
constellations, e.g., 16 quadrature amplitude modulation. Since our detector
makes use of the channel as part of the decoding, an ML channel estimation
technique with one-bit ADCs that shares the same structure with our proposed
nML detector is also developed. The proposed detector and channel estimator
provide a complete low power solution for the uplink of a massive MIMO system.