InAs/GaSb and similar materials systems have generated great interest as a
heterojunction for tunnel field effect transistors (TFETs) due to favorable
band alignment. However, little is currently understood about how such TFETs
are affected by materials defects and nonidealities. We present measurements of
the conductance slope for various InAs/GaSb heterojunctions via two-terminal
electrical measurements, which removes three-terminal parasitics and enables
direct study on the effect of microstructure on tunnelling. Using this, we can
predict how subthreshold swings in TFETs can depend on microstructure. We also
demonstrate growth and electrical characterization for structures grown by
metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) - a generally more scalable
process compared to molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). We determine that misfit
dislocations and point defects near the interface can lead to energy states in
the band-gap and local band bending that result in trap-assisted leakage routes
and nonuniform band alignment across the junction area that lower the steepness
of the conductance slope. Despite the small lattice mismatch, misfit
dislocations still form in InAs on GaSb due to relaxation as a result of large
strain from intermixed compositions. This can be circumvented by growing GaSb
on InAs, straining the GaSb underlayer, or lowering the InAs growth temperature
in the region of the interface. The conductance slope can also be improved by
annealing the samples at higher temperatures, which we believe acts to
annihilate point defects and average out major fluctuations in band alignment
across the interface. Using a combination of these techniques, we can greatly
improve the steepness of the conductance slope which could result in steeper
subthreshold swings in TFETs in the future.