We consider a private variant of the classical allocation problem: given k
goods and n agents with individual, private valuation functions over bundles of
goods, how can we partition the goods amongst the agents to maximize social
welfare? An important special case is when each agent desires at most one good,
and specifies her (private) value for each good: in this case, the problem is
exactly the maximum-weight matching problem in a bipartite graph.
  Private matching and allocation problems have not been considered in the
differential privacy literature, and for good reason: they are plainly
impossible to solve under differential privacy. Informally, the allocation must
match agents to their preferred goods in order to maximize social welfare, but
this preference is exactly what agents wish to hide. Therefore, we consider the
problem under the relaxed constraint of joint differential privacy: for any
agent i, no coalition of agents excluding i should be able to learn about the
valuation function of agent i. In this setting, the full allocation is no
longer published---instead, each agent is told what good to get. We first show
that with a small number of identical copies of each good, it is possible to
efficiently and accurately solve the maximum weight matching problem while
guaranteeing joint differential privacy. We then consider the more general
allocation problem, when bidder valuations satisfy the gross substitutes
condition. Finally, we prove that the allocation problem cannot be solved to
non-trivial accuracy under joint differential privacy without requiring
multiple copies of each type of good.