A new algorithm developed to perform autonomous fitting of gravitational
microlensing lightcurves is presented. The new algorithm is conceptually
simple, versatile and robust, and parallelises trivially; it combines features
of extant evolutionary algorithms with some novel ones, and fares well on the
problem of fitting binary-lens microlensing lightcurves, as well as on a number
of other difficult optimisation problems. Success rates in excess of 90% are
achieved when fitting synthetic though noisy binary-lens lightcurves, allowing
no more than 20 minutes per fit on a desktop computer; this success rate is
shown to compare very favourably with that of both a conventional (iterated
simplex) algorithm, and a more state-of-the-art, artificial neural
network-based approach. As such, this work provides proof of concept for the
use of an evolutionary algorithm as the basis for real-time, autonomous
modelling of microlensing events. Further work is required to investigate how
the algorithm will fare when faced with more complex and realistic microlensing
modelling problems; it is, however, argued here that the use of parallel
computing platforms, such as inexpensive graphics processing units, should
allow fitting times to be constrained to under an hour, even when dealing with
complicated microlensing models. In any event, it is hoped that this work might
stimulate some interest in evolutionary algorithms, and that the algorithm
described here might prove useful for solving microlensing and/or more general
model-fitting problems.