The CMS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider has reported a 2.8\sigma
excess in the (2e)(2jets) channel around 2.1 TeV. Interpretation of this data
in terms of the production of a right-handed weak gauge boson, W_R, of the
left-right symmetric model and in an SO(10) grand unified theory is
reconsidered. The left-right symmetric model can be consistent with this excess
if (a) the heavy right-handed neutrino has a mass near W_R, or (b) if g_L \neq
g_R, or (c) the right-handed CKM matrix is nontrivial. Combinations of the
above possibilities are also viable. A W_R with a mass in the TeV region if
embedded in SO(10) is not compatible with g_L = g_R. Rather, it implies 0.64
\leq g_R/g_L \leq 0.78. Further, a unique symmetry-breaking route -- the order
being left-right discrete symmetry breaking first followed by SU(4)_C and
finally SU(2)_R -- to the standard model is picked out. The L \leftrightarrow R
discrete symmetry has to be broken at around 10^{17} GeV. The grand unification
scale is pushed to 10^{18} GeV making the detection of proton decay in ongoing
searches rather unlikely. The SU(4)_C breaking scale can be at its allowed
lower limit of 10^6 GeV so that n - \bar{n} oscillation or flavour changing
processes such as K_L \rightarrow \mu e and B_{d,s} \rightarrow \mu e may be
detectable. The Higgs scalar multiplets responsible for symmetry breaking at
various stages are uniquely identified so long as one adheres to a minimalist
principle. We also remark, {\em en passant}, about a partially unified
Pati-Salam model.