This paper presents an event-driven way finding algorithm for pedestrians in
an evacuation scenario, which operates on a graph-based structure. The
motivation of each pedestrian is to leave the facility. The events used to
redirect pedestrians include the identification of a jam situation and/or
identification of a better route than the current. This study considers two
types of pedestrians: familiar and unfamiliar with the facility. Four
strategies are modelled to cover those groups. The modelled strategies are the
shortest path (local and global); They are combined with a quickest path
approach, which is based on an observation principle. In the quickest path
approach, pedestrians take their decisions based on the observed environment
and are routed dynamically in the network using an appropriate cost benefit
analysis function. The dynamic modelling of route choice with different
strategies and types of pedestrians considers the manifold of in uences which
appears in the real system and raises questions about the criticality of an
evacuation process. To address this question criteria are elaborated. The
criteria we focus on in this contribution are the evacuation time, the
individual times spent in jam, the jam size evolution and the overall jam size
itself. The in uences of the different strategies on those evaluation criteria
are investigated. The sensibility of the system to disturbances (e.g. broken
escape route) is also analysed. Keywords: pedestrian dynamics, routing,
quickest path, evacuation, jam, critical state