This paper studies a multiple-input single-output (MISO) broadcast channel
(BC) featuring simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT),
where a multi-antenna access point (AP) delivers both information and energy
via radio signals to multiple single-antenna receivers simultaneously, and each
receiver implements either information decoding (ID) or energy harvesting (EH).
In particular, pseudo-random sequences that are {\it a priori} known and
therefore can be cancelled at each ID receiver is used as the energy signals,
and the information-theoretically optimal dirty paper coding (DPC) is employed
for the information transmission. We characterize the capacity region for ID
receivers under given energy requirements for EH receivers, by solving a
sequence of weighted sum-rate (WSR) maximization (WSRMax) problems subject to a
maximum sum-power constraint for the AP, and a set of minimum harvested power
constraints for individual EH receivers. The problem corresponds to a new form
of WSRMax problem in MISO-BC with combined maximum and minimum linear transmit
covariance constraints (MaxLTCCs and MinLTCCs), which differs from the
celebrated capacity region characterization problem for MISO-BC under a set of
MaxLTCCs only and is challenging to solve. By extending the general BC-multiple
access channel (MAC) duality, which is only applicable to WSRMax problems with
MaxLTCCs, and applying the ellipsoid method, we propose an efficient algorithm
to solve this problem globally optimally. Furthermore, we also propose two
suboptimal algorithms with lower complexity by assuming that the information
and energy signals are designed separately. Finally, numerical results are
provided to validate our proposed algorithms.