Peer-to-peer (P2P) Data-sharing systems now generate a significant portion of
Internet traffic. P2P systems have emerged as an accepted way to share enormous
volumes of data. Needs for widely distributed information systems supporting
virtual organizations have given rise to a new category of P2P systems called
schema-based. In such systems each peer is a database management system in
itself, ex-posing its own schema. In such a setting, the main objective is the
efficient search across peer databases by processing each incoming query
without overly consuming bandwidth. The usability of these systems depends on
successful techniques to find and retrieve data; however, efficient and
effective routing of content-based queries is an emerging problem in P2P
networks. This work was attended as an attempt to motivate the use of mining
algorithms in the P2P context may improve the significantly the efficiency of
such methods. Our proposed method based respectively on combination of
clustering with hypergraphs. We use ECCLAT to build approximate clustering and
discovering meaningful clusters with slight overlapping. We use an algorithm
MTMINER to extract all minimal transversals of a hypergraph (clusters) for
query routing. The set of clusters improves the robustness in queries routing
mechanism and scalability in P2P Network. We compare the performance of our
method with the baseline one considering the queries routing problem. Our
experimental results prove that our proposed methods generate impressive levels
of performance and scalability with with respect to important criteria such as
response time, precision and recall.