This paper compares two important downlink multicell interference mitigation
techniques, namely, large-scale (LS) multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) and
network MIMO. We consider a cooperative wireless cellular system operating in
time-division duplex (TDD) mode, wherein each cooperating cluster includes $B$
base-stations (BSs), each equipped with multiple antennas and scheduling $K$
single-antenna users. In an LS-MIMO system, each BS employs $BM$ antennas not
only to serve its scheduled users, but also to null out interference caused to
the other users within the cooperating cluster using zero-forcing (ZF)
beamforming. In a network MIMO system, each BS is equipped with only $M$
antennas, but interference cancellation is realized by data and channel state
information exchange over the backhaul links and joint downlink transmission
using ZF beamforming. Both systems are able to completely eliminate
intra-cluster interference and to provide the same number of spatial degrees of
freedom per user. Assuming the uplink-downlink channel reciprocity provided by
TDD, both systems are subject to identical channel acquisition overhead during
the uplink pilot transmission stage. Further, the available sum power at each
cluster is fixed and assumed to be equally distributed across the downlink
beams in both systems. Building upon the channel distribution functions and
using tools from stochastic ordering, this paper shows, however, that from a
performance point of view, users experience better quality of service, averaged
over small-scale fading, under an LS-MIMO system than a network MIMO system.
Numerical simulations for a multicell network reveal that this conclusion also
holds true with regularized ZF beamforming scheme. Hence, given the likely
lower cost of adding excess number of antennas at each BS, LS-MIMO could be the
preferred route toward interference mitigation in cellular networks.