The perennial problem of "how many clusters?" remains an issue of substantial
interest in data mining and machine learning communities, and becomes
particularly salient in large data sets such as populational genomic data where
the number of clusters needs to be relatively large and open-ended. This
problem gets further complicated in a co-clustering scenario in which one needs
to solve multiple clustering problems simultaneously because of the presence of
common centroids (e.g., ancestors) shared by clusters (e.g., possible descents
from a certain ancestor) from different multiple-cluster samples (e.g.,
different human subpopulations). In this paper we present a hierarchical
nonparametric Bayesian model to address this problem in the context of
multi-population haplotype inference. Uncovering the haplotypes of single
nucleotide polymorphisms is essential for many biological and medical
applications. While it is uncommon for the genotype data to be pooled from
multiple ethnically distinct populations, few existing programs have explicitly
leveraged the individual ethnic information for haplotype inference. In this
paper we present a new haplotype inference program, Haploi, which makes use of
such information and is readily applicable to genotype sequences with thousands
of SNPs from heterogeneous populations, with competent and sometimes superior
speed and accuracy comparing to the state-of-the-art programs. Underlying
Haploi is a new haplotype distribution model based on a nonparametric Bayesian
formalism known as the hierarchical Dirichlet process, which represents a
tractable surrogate to the coalescent process. The proposed model is
exchangeable, unbounded, and capable of coupling demographic information of
different populations.