The problem of identification of statistically significant patterns in a
sequence of data has been applied to many domains such as intrusion detection
systems, financial models, web-click records, automated monitoring systems,
computational biology, cryptology, and text analysis. An observed pattern of
events is deemed to be statistically significant if it is unlikely to have
occurred due to randomness or chance alone. We use the chi-square statistic as
a quantitative measure of statistical significance. Given a string of
characters generated from a memoryless Bernoulli model, the problem is to
identify the substring for which the empirical distribution of single letters
deviates the most from the distribution expected from the generative Bernoulli
model. This deviation is captured using the chi-square measure. The most
significant substring (MSS) of a string is thus defined as the substring having
the highest chi-square value. Till date, to the best of our knowledge, there
does not exist any algorithm to find the MSS in better than O(n^2) time, where
n denotes the length of the string. In this paper, we propose an algorithm to
find the most significant substring, whose running time is O(n^{3/2}) with high
probability. We also study some variants of this problem such as finding the
top-t set, finding all substrings having chi-square greater than a fixed
threshold and finding the MSS among substrings greater than a given length. We
experimentally demonstrate the asymptotic behavior of the MSS on varying the
string size and alphabet size. We also describe some applications of our
algorithm on cryptology and real world data from finance and sports. Finally,
we compare our technique with the existing heuristics for finding the MSS.