Protein aggregation, linked to many of diseases, is initiated when monomers
access rogue conformations that are poised to form amyloid fibrils. We show,
using simulations of src SH3 domain, that mechanical force enhances the
population of the aggregation prone ($N^*$) states, which are rarely populated
under force free native conditions, but are encoded in the spectrum of native
fluctuations. The folding phase diagrams of SH3 as a function of denaturant
concentration ($[C]$), mechanical force ($f$), and temperature exhibit an
apparent two-state behavior, without revealing the presence of the elusive
$N^*$ states. Interestingly, the phase boundaries separating the folded and
unfolded states at all [C] and $f$ fall on a master curve, which can can be
quantitatively described using an analogy to superconductors in a magnetic
field. The free energy profiles as a function of the molecular extension ($R$),
which are accessible in pulling experiments, ($R$), reveal the presence of a
native-like $N^*$ with a disordered solvent-exposed amino terminal
$\beta$-strand. The structure of the $N^*$ state is identical to that found in
Fyn SH3 by NMR dispersion experiments. We show that the time scale for fibril
formation can be estimated from the population of the $N^*$ state, determined
by the free energy gap separating the native structure and the $N^*$ state, a
finding that can be used to assess fibril forming tendencies of proteins. The
structures of the $N^*$ state are used to show that oligomer formation and
likely route to fibrils occur by a domain-swap mechanism in SH3 domain.