We address the problem of surface inpainting, which aims to fill in holes or
missing regions on a Riemann surface based on its surface geometry. In
practical situation, surfaces obtained from range scanners often have holes
where the 3D models are incomplete. In order to analyze the 3D shapes
effectively, restoring the incomplete shape by filling in the surface holes is
necessary. In this paper, we propose a novel conformal approach to inpaint
surface holes on a Riemann surface based on its surface geometry. The basic
idea is to represent the Riemann surface using its conformal factor and mean
curvature. According to Riemann surface theory, a Riemann surface can be
uniquely determined by its conformal factor and mean curvature up to a rigid
motion. Given a Riemann surface $S$, its mean curvature $H$ and conformal
factor $\lambda$ can be computed easily through its conformal parameterization.
Conversely, given $\lambda$ and $H$, a Riemann surface can be uniquely
reconstructed by solving the Gauss-Codazzi equation on the conformal parameter
domain. Hence, the conformal factor and the mean curvature are two geometric
quantities fully describing the surface. With this $\lambda$-$H$ representation
of the surface, the problem of surface inpainting can be reduced to the problem
of image inpainting of $\lambda$ and $H$ on the conformal parameter domain.
Once $\lambda$ and $H$ are inpainted, a Riemann surface can be reconstructed
which effectively restores the 3D surface with missing holes. Since the
inpainting model is based on the geometric quantities $\lambda$ and $H$, the
restored surface follows the surface geometric pattern. We test the proposed
algorithm on synthetic data as well as real surface data. Experimental results
show that our proposed method is an effective surface inpainting algorithm to
fill in surface holes on an incomplete 3D models based their surface geometry.