A novel strategy to handle divergences typical of perturbative calculations
is implemented for the Nambu--Jona-Lasinio model and its phenomenological
consequences investigated. The central idea of the method is to avoid the
critical step involved in the regularization process, namely the explicit
evaluation of divergent integrals. This goal is achieved by assuming a
regularization distribution in an implicit way and making use, in intermediary
steps, only of very general properties of such regularization. The finite parts
are separated of the divergent ones and integrated free from effects of the
regularization. The divergent parts are organized in terms of standard objects
which are independent of the (arbitrary) momenta running in internal lines of
loop graphs. Through the analysis of symmetry relations, a set of properties
for the divergent objects are identified, which we denominate consistency
relations, reducing the number of divergent objects to only a few ones. The
calculational strategy eliminates unphysical dependencies of the arbitrary
choices for the routing of internal momenta, leading to ambiguity-free, and
symmetry-preserving physical amplitudes. We show that the imposition of scale
properties for the basic divergent objects leads to a critical condition for
the constituent quark mass such that the remaining arbitrariness is removed.
The model become predictive in the sense that its phenomenological consequences
do not depend on possible choices made in intermediary steps. Numerical results
are obtained for physical quantities at the one-loop level for the pion and
sigma masses and pion-quark and sigma-quark coupling constants.