Since the innovation of the ubiquitous Kalman filter more than five decades
back it is well known that to obtain the best possible estimates the tuning of
its statistics $X_0$, $P_0$, $\Theta$, $R$ and $Q$ namely initial state and
covariance, unknown parameters, and the measurement and state noise covariances
is very crucial. The earlier tweaking and other systematic approaches are
reviewed but none has reached a simple and easily implementable approach for
any application. The present reference recursive recipe based on multiple
filter passes through the data leads to a converged `statistical equilibrium'
solution. It utilizes the pre, post, and smoothed state estimates and their
corresponding measurements and the actual measurements as well as their
covariances to balance the state and measurement equations and form generalized
cost functions. The filter covariance at the end of each pass is heuristically
scaled up by the number of data points and further trimmed to provide the $P_0$
for subsequent passes. A simultaneous and proper choice for $Q$ and $R$ based
on the filter sample statistics and certain other covariances leads to a stable
filter operation providing the results after few iterations. When only $R$ is
present in the data by minimizing the `innovation' cost function using the non
filter based Newton Raphson optimization results served as an anchor for
matching and tuning the filter statistics. When both $R$ and $Q$ are present in
the data the consistency between the injected noise sequences and their
statistics provided a simple route and confidence in the present approach. A
typical simulation study of a spring, mass, damper system with a weak non
linear spring constant shows the present approach out performs earlier
techniques. The Part-2 of the paper further consolidates the present approach
based on an analysis of real airplane flight test data.