In this paper, we derive a variational integrator for certain highly
oscillatory problems in mechanics. To do this, we take a new approach to the
splitting of fast and slow potential forces: rather than splitting these forces
at the level of the differential equations or the Hamiltonian, we split the two
potentials with respect to the Lagrangian action integral. By using a different
quadrature rule to approximate the contribution of each potential to the
action, we arrive at a geometric integrator that is implicit in the fast force
and explicit in the slow force. This can allow for significantly longer time
steps to be taken (compared to standard explicit methods, such as
St\"ormer/Verlet) at the cost of only a linear solve rather than a full
nonlinear solve. We also analyze the stability of this method, in particular
proving that it eliminates the linear resonance instabilities that can arise
with explicit multiple-time-stepping methods. Next, we perform some numerical
experiments, studying the behavior of this integrator for two test problems: a
system of coupled linear oscillators, for which we compare against the
resonance behavior of the r-RESPA method; and slow energy exchange in the
Fermi--Pasta--Ulam problem, which couples fast linear oscillators with slow
nonlinear oscillators. Finally, we prove that this integrator accurately
preserves the slow energy exchange between the fast oscillatory components,
which explains the numerical behavior observed for the Fermi--Pasta--Ulam
problem.