We present an approximation scheme for optimizing certain Quadratic Integer
Programming problems with positive semidefinite objective functions and global
linear constraints. This framework includes well known graph problems such as
Minimum graph bisection, Edge expansion, Uniform sparsest cut, and Small Set
expansion, as well as the Unique Games problem. These problems are notorious
for the existence of huge gaps between the known algorithmic results and
NP-hardness results. Our algorithm is based on rounding semidefinite programs
from the Lasserre hierarchy, and the analysis uses bounds for low-rank
approximations of a matrix in Frobenius norm using columns of the matrix.
  For all the above graph problems, we give an algorithm running in time
$n^{O(r/\epsilon^2)}$ with approximation ratio
$\frac{1+\epsilon}{\min\{1,\lambda_r\}}$, where $\lambda_r$ is the $r$'th
smallest eigenvalue of the normalized graph Laplacian $\mathcal{L}$. In the
case of graph bisection and small set expansion, the number of vertices in the
cut is within lower-order terms of the stipulated bound. Our results imply
$(1+O(\epsilon))$ factor approximation in time $n^{O(r^\ast/\epsilon^2)}$ where
$r^\ast$ is the number of eigenvalues of $\mathcal{L}$ smaller than
$1-\epsilon$.
  For Unique Games, we give a factor $(1+\frac{2+\epsilon}{\lambda_r})$
approximation for minimizing the number of unsatisfied constraints in
$n^{O(r/\epsilon)}$ time. This improves an earlier bound for solving Unique
Games on expanders, and also shows that Lasserre SDPs are powerful enough to
solve well-known integrality gap instances for the basic SDP.
  We also give an algorithm for independent sets in graphs that performs well
when the Laplacian does not have too many eigenvalues bigger than $1+o(1)$.