In routing games, agents pick their routes through a network to minimize
their own delay. A primary concern for the network designer in routing games is
the average agent delay at equilibrium. A number of methods to control this
average delay have received substantial attention, including network tolls,
Stackelberg routing, and edge removal.
  A related approach with arguably greater practical relevance is that of
making investments in improvements to the edges of the network, so that, for a
given investment budget, the average delay at equilibrium in the improved
network is minimized. This problem has received considerable attention in the
literature on transportation research and a number of different algorithms have
been studied. To our knowledge, none of this work gives guarantees on the
output quality of any polynomial-time algorithm. We study a model for this
problem introduced in transportation research literature, and present both
hardness results and algorithms that obtain nearly optimal performance
guarantees.
  - We first show that a simple algorithm obtains good approximation guarantees
for the problem. Despite its simplicity, we show that for affine delays the
approximation ratio of 4/3 obtained by the algorithm cannot be improved.
  - To obtain better results, we then consider restricted topologies. For
graphs consisting of parallel paths with affine delay functions we give an
optimal algorithm. However, for graphs that consist of a series of parallel
links, we show the problem is weakly NP-hard.
  - Finally, we consider the problem in series-parallel graphs, and give an
FPTAS for this case.
  Our work thus formalizes the intuition held by transportation researchers
that the network improvement problem is hard, and presents topology-dependent
algorithms that have provably tight approximation guarantees.