For large-scale symmetric discrete ill-posed problems, MINRES and MR-II are
commonly used iterative solvers. In this paper, we analyze their regularizing
effects. We first prove that the regularized solutions by MINRES have filtered
SVD forms. Then we show that (i) a hybrid MINRES that uses explicit
regularization within projected problems is generally needed to compute a best
possible regularized solution to a given ill-posed problem and (ii) the $k$th
iterate by MINRES is more accurate than the $(k-1)$th iterate by MR-II until
the semi-convergence of MINRES, though MR-II has globally better regularizing
effects than MINRES. Here a best possible regularized solution means that it
essentially has the minimum 2-norm error when standard-form Tikhonov
regularization is used, or from the other perspective, it is at least as
accurate as the best regularized solution obtained by the truncated singular
value decomposition (TSVD) method. Moreover, we establish bounds for the
distance between an underlying $k$-dimensional Krylov subspace and the
$k$-dimensional dominant eigenspace. They show that MR-II has better
regularizing effects for severely and moderately ill-posed problems than for
mildly ill-posed problems, indicating that a hybrid MR-II is needed to get a
best possible regularized solution for mildly ill-posed problems. Numerical
experiments confirm our assertions. Stronger than our theory, MR-II is
experimentally good enough to compute best possible regularized solutions for
severely and moderately ill-posed problems. We also justify that MR-II is as
equally effective as and twice as efficient as LSQR for symmetric ill-posed
problems.