This paper presents a new intelligent algorithm that can solve the problems
of finding the optimum solution in the state space among which the desired
solution resides. The algorithm mimics the principles of bat sonar in finding
its targets. The algorithm introduces three search approaches. The first search
approach considers a single sonar unit (SSU) with a fixed beam length and a
single starting point. In this approach, although the results converge toward
the optimum fitness, it is not guaranteed to find the global optimum solution
especially for complex problems; it is satisfied with finding 'acceptably good'
solutions to these problems. The second approach considers multisonar units
(MSU) working in parallel in the same state space. Each unit has its own
starting point and tries to find the optimum solution. In this approach the
probability that the algorithm converges toward the optimum solution is
significantly increased. It is found that this approach is suitable for complex
functions and for problems of wide state space. In the third approach, a single
sonar unit with a moment (SSM) is used in order to handle the problem of
convergence toward a local optimum rather than a global optimum. The momentum
term is added to the length of the transmitted beams. This will give the chance
to find the best fitness in a wider range within the state space. In this paper
a comparison between the proposed algorithm and genetic algorithm (GA) has been
made. It showed that both of the algorithms can catch approximately the optimum
solutions for all of the testbed functions except for the function that has a
local minimum, in which the proposed algorithm's result is much better than
that of the GA algorithm. On the other hand, the comparison showed that the
required execution time to obtain the optimum solution using the proposed
algorithm is much less than that of the GA algorithm.