Because of the prominent position of urban rail in reducing urban
transport-related problems, such as congestion and air pollution, insights into
the costs of possible new urban rail projects is very relevant for those
involved with cost estimations, policy makers, cost-benefit analysts, and other
target groups. Knowledge of the differences in costs per kilometre, including
explanations of differences and their breakdowns is currently lacking in the
literature. This paper aims to provide a first stage insight into how cost per
kilometre varies across urban rail projects. The methodology applied is a
simple cost comparison across projects where the data collected are comparable.
We conclude that capital costs per route-kilometre of urban rail vary highly
between projects. Looking at European projects and excluding outliers, the
total capital costs per route-kilometre (including stations and rolling stock)
lie mainly between US$50-100 million (2002 prices). Including US projects, the
range is US$50-150 million. The main reasons for the high variation in the
route-kilometre costs are differences between projects as regards the ratio of
underground to above-ground construction, ground conditions, station spacing,
type of rolling stock, environmental and safety constraints and labour costs.
We warn, however, that the observations used to reach the conclusions are too
few to obtain results with statistical significance. Our results must therefore
be seen as a first step towards collecting more data so that a more succinct
statistical analysis can be conducted. Another conclusion is therefore that
this area has future research potential.