A well-established numerical approach to solve the Navier--Stokes equations
for incompressible fluids is Chorin's projection method, whereby the fluid
velocity is explicitly updated, and then an elliptic problem for the pressure
is solved, which is used to orthogonally project the velocity field to maintain
the incompressibility constraint. In this paper, we develop a mathematical
correspondence between Newtonian fluids in the incompressible limit and
hypo-elastoplastic solids in the slow, quasi-static limit. Using this
correspondence, we formulate a new fixed-grid, Eulerian numerical method for
simulating quasi-static hypo-elastoplastic solids, whereby the stress is
explicitly updated, and then an elliptic problem for the velocity is solved,
which is used to orthogonally project the stress to maintain the
quasi-staticity constraint. We develop a finite-difference implementation of
the method and apply it to an elasto-viscoplastic model of a bulk metallic
glass based on the shear transformation zone theory. We show that in a
two-dimensional plane strain simple shear simulation, the method is in
quantitative agreement with an explicit method. Like the fluid projection
method, it is efficient and numerically robust, making it practical for a wide
variety of applications. We also demonstrate that the method can be extended to
simulate objects with evolving boundaries. We highlight a number of
correspondences between incompressible fluid mechanics and quasi-static
elastoplasticity, creating possibilities for translating other numerical
methods between the two classes of physical problems.