The effectiveness and validity of applying variation partitioning methods in
community ecology has been questioned. Here, using mathematical deduction and
numerical simulation, we made an attempt to uncover the underlying mechanisms
determining the effectiveness of variation partitioning techniques. The
covariance among independent variables determines the under-fitting and
over-fitting problem with the variation partitioning process. Ideally, it is
assumed that the covariance among independent variables will be zero (no
correlation at all), however, typically there will be some colinearities.
Therefore, we analyzed the role of slight covariance on influencing species
variation partitioning. We concluded that when the covariance between spatial
and environmental predictors is positive, all the three components-pure
environmental, spatial variations and mixed covariation were over-fitted, with
the sign of the true covariation being negative. In contrast, when the
covariance is negative, all the three components were under-fitted with the
sign of true covariation being positive. Other factors, including extra noise
levels, the strengths of variable coefficients and the patterns of landscape
gradients, could reduce the fitting problems caused by the covariance of
variables. The conventional calculation of mixed covariation is incorrect and
misleading, as the true and estimated covariations are always sign-opposite. In
conclusion, I challenge the conventional three-step procedure of variation
partitioning, suggesting that a full regression model with all variables
together is robust enough to correctly partition variations.