Given a set ${\cal R}=\{R_1,R_2,..., R_n\}$ of $n$ randomly positioned axis
parallel rectangles in 2D, the problem of computing the minimum clique cover
(MCC) and maximum independent set (MIS) for the intersection graph $G({\cal
R})$ of the members in $\cal R$ are both computationally hard \cite{CC05}. For
the MCC problem, it is proved that polynomial time constant factor
approximation is impossible to obtain \cite{PT11}. Though such a result is not
proved yet for the MIS problem, no polynomial time constant factor
approximation algorithm exists in the literature. We study the performance of
greedy algorithms for computing these two parameters of $G({\cal R})$.
Experimental results shows that for each of the MCC and MIS problems, the
corresponding greedy algorithm produces a solution that is very close to its
optimum solution. Scheinerman \cite{Scheinerman80} showed that the size of MIS
is tightly bounded by $\sqrt{n}$ for a random instance of the 1D version of the
problem, (i.e., for the interval graph). Our experiment shows that the size of
independent set and the clique cover produced by the greedy algorithm is at
least $2\sqrt{n}$ and at most $3\sqrt{n}$, respectively. Thus the
experimentally obtained approximation ratio of the greedy algorithm for MIS
problem is at most 3/2 and the same for the MCC problem is at least 2/3.
Finally we will provide refined greedy algorithms based on a concept of {\it
simplicial rectangle}. The characteristics of this algorithm may be of interest
in getting a provably constant factor approximation algorithm for random
instance of both the problems. We believe that the result also holds true for
any finite dimension.