Objective. The main goal of this work is to develop a model for multi-sensor
signals such as MEG or EEG signals, that accounts for the inter-trial
variability, suitable for corresponding binary classification problems. An
important constraint is that the model be simple enough to handle small size
and unbalanced datasets, as often encountered in BCI type experiments.
Approach. The method involves linear mixed effects statistical model, wavelet
transform and spatial filtering, and aims at the characterization of localized
discriminant features in multi-sensor signals. After discrete wavelet transform
and spatial filtering, a projection onto the relevant wavelet and spatial
channels subspaces is used for dimension reduction. The projected signals are
then decomposed as the sum of a signal of interest (i.e. discriminant) and
background noise, using a very simple Gaussian linear mixed model. Main
results. Thanks to the simplicity of the model, the corresponding parameter
estimation problem is simplified. Robust estimates of class-covariance matrices
are obtained from small sample sizes and an effective Bayes plug-in classifier
is derived. The approach is applied to the detection of error potentials in
multichannel EEG data, in a very unbalanced situation (detection of rare
events). Classification results prove the relevance of the proposed approach in
such a context. Significance. The combination of linear mixed model, wavelet
transform and spatial filtering for EEG classification is, to the best of our
knowledge, an original approach, which is proven to be effective. This paper
improves on earlier results on similar problems, and the three main ingredients
all play an important role.