A new paradigm has recently emerged in brain science whereby communications
between glial cells and neuron-glia interactions should be considered together
with neurons and their networks to understand higher brain functions. In
particular, astrocytes, the main type of glial cells in the cortex, have been
shown to communicate with neurons and with each other. They are thought to form
a gap-junction-coupled syncytium supporting cell-cell communication via
propagating Ca2+ waves. An identified mode of propagation is based on
cytoplasm-to-cytoplasm transport of inositol trisphosphate (IP3) through gap
junctions that locally trigger Ca2+ pulses via IP3-dependent Ca2+-induced Ca2+
release. It is, however, currently unknown whether this intracellular route is
able to support the propagation of long-distance regenerative Ca2+ waves or is
restricted to short-distance signaling. Furthermore, the influence of the
intracellular signaling dynamics on intercellular propagation remains to be
understood. In this work, we propose a model of the gap-junctional route for
intercellular Ca2+ wave propagation in astrocytes showing that: (1)
long-distance regenerative signaling requires nonlinear coupling in the gap
junctions, and (2) even with nonlinear gap junctions, long-distance
regenerative signaling is favored when the internal Ca2+ dynamics implements
frequency modulation-encoding oscillations with pulsating dynamics, while
amplitude modulation-encoding dynamics tends to restrict the propagation range.
As a result, spatially heterogeneous molecular properties and/or weak couplings
are shown to give rise to rich spatiotemporal dynamics that support complex
propagation behaviors. These results shed new light on the mechanisms
implicated in the propagation of Ca2+ waves across astrocytes and precise the
conditions under which glial cells may participate in information processing in
the brain.