Tolerance graphs model interval relations in such a way that intervals can
tolerate a certain degree of overlap without being in conflict. This subclass
of perfect graphs has been extensively studied, due to both its interesting
structure and its numerous applications. Several efficient algorithms for
optimization problems that are NP-hard on general graphs have been designed for
tolerance graphs. In spite of this, the recognition of tolerance graphs -
namely, the problem of deciding whether a given graph is a tolerance graph - as
well as the recognition of their main subclass of bounded tolerance graphs,
have been the most fundamental open problems on this class of graphs (cf. the
book on tolerance graphs \cite{GolTol04}) since their introduction in 1982
\cite{GoMo82}. In this article we prove that both recognition problems are
NP-complete, even in the case where the input graph is a trapezoid graph. The
presented results are surprising because, on the one hand, most subclasses of
perfect graphs admit polynomial recognition algorithms and, on the other hand,
bounded tolerance graphs were believed to be efficiently recognizable as they
are a natural special case of trapezoid graphs (which can be recognized in
polynomial time) and share a very similar structure with them. For our
reduction we extend the notion of an \emph{acyclic orientation} of permutation
and trapezoid graphs. Our main tool is a new algorithm that uses \emph{vertex
splitting} to transform a given trapezoid graph into a permutation graph, while
preserving this new acyclic orientation property. This method of vertex
splitting is of independent interest; very recently, it has been proved a
powerful tool also in the design of efficient recognition algorithms for other
classes of graphs \cite{MC-Trapezoid}.