In this paper, we propose an inexact multi-block ADMM-type first-order method
for solving a class of high-dimensional convex composite conic optimization
problems to moderate accuracy. The design of this method combines an inexact
2-block majorized semi-proximal ADMM and the recent advances in the inexact
symmetric Gauss-Seidel (sGS) technique for solving a multi-block convex
composite quadratic programming whose objective contains a nonsmooth term
involving only the first block-variable. One distinctive feature of our
proposed method (called sGS-imsPADMM) is that it only needs one cycle of an
inexact sGS iteration, instead of an unknown number of cycles, to solve each of
the subproblems involved. With some simple and implementable error tolerance
criteria, the cost for solving the subproblems can be greatly reduced, and many
steps in the forward sweep of each of the sGS iterations can often be skipped,
which further contributes to the efficiency of the proposed method. Global
convergence, as well as the iteration complexity in both the non-ergodic and
the ergodic senses, are established. Preliminary numerical experiments on a
class of high-dimensional linear and convex quadratic SDP problems with a large
number of linear equality and inequality constraints are also provided. The
results show that for the vast majority of the tested problems, the
sGS-imsPADMM is 2 to 3 times faster than the directly extended multi-block ADMM
even with the aggressive step length of 1.618, which is more or less the
current benchmark among first-order methods for solving multi-block linear and
quadratic SDPs though its convergence is not guaranteed.