Wireless mesh networks (WMNs) have emerged as a key technology for next
generation wireless broadband networks showing rapid progress and inspiring
numerous compelling applications. A WMN comprises of a set of mesh routers
(MRs) and mesh clients (MCs), where MRs are connected to the Internet backbone
through the Internet gateways (IGWs). The MCs are wireless devices and
communicate among themselves over possibly multi-hop paths with or without the
involvement of MRs. User privacy and security have been primary concerns in
WMNs due to their peer-to-peer network topology, shared wireless medium,
stringent resource constraints, and highly dynamic environment. Moreover, to
support real-time applications, WMNs must also be equipped with robust,
reliable and efficient routing protocols so as to minimize the end-to-end
latency. Design of a secure and efficient routing protocol for WMNs, therefore,
is of paramount importance. In this paper, we propose an efficient and reliable
routing protocol that also provides user anonymity in WMNs. The protocol is
based on an accurate estimation of the available bandwidth in the wireless
links and a robust estimation of the end-to-end delay in a routing path, and
minimization of control message overhead. The user anonymity, authentication
and data privacy is achieved by application of a novel protocol that is based
on Rivest's ring signature scheme. Simulations carried out on the proposed
protocol demonstrate that it is more efficient than some of the existing
routing protocols.