The problem of rate control in multi-user multiple-input multiple-output
(MIMO) interference systems is formulated as a multicriteria optimization (MCO)
problem. The Pareto rate region of the MCO problem is characterized. It is
shown that for the convexity of the Pareto rate region it is sufficient that
the interference-plus-noise covariance matrices (INCMs) of multiple users with
conflicting objectives approach identity matrix. The latter can be achieved by
using either orthogonal signaling, time-sharing, or interference cancellation
strategies. In the case of high interference, the interference cancellation is
preferable in order to increase the Pareto boundary and guarantee the convexity
of the Pareto rate region. The Nash bargaining (NB) is applied to transform the
MCO problem into a single-objective one. The characteristics of the NB over
MIMO interference systems such as the uniqueness, existence of the NB solution,
and feasibility of the NB set are investigated. When the NB solution exists,
the sufficient condition for the corresponding single-objective problem to have
a unique solution is that the INCMs of users approach identity matrix. A simple
multi-stage interference cancellation scheme, which leads to a larger convex
Pareto rate region and, correspondingly, a unique NB solution with larger user
rates compared to the orthogonal and time-sharing signaling schemes, is
proposed. The convexity of the rate region, effectiveness of the proposed
interference cancellation technique, and existence of the NB solution for MIMO
interference systems are examined by means of numerical studies. The fairness
of the NB solution is also demonstrated. Finally, the special cases of
multi-input single-output (MISO) and single-input single-output (SISO)
interference systems are also considered.