We address the problem of optimal experimental design (OED) for Bayesian
nonlinear inverse problems governed by PDEs. The goal is to find a placement of
sensors, at which experimental data are collected, so as to minimize the
uncertainty in the inferred parameter field. We formulate the OED objective
function by generalizing the classical A-optimal experimental design criterion
using the expected value of the trace of the posterior covariance. We seek a
method that solves the OED problem at a cost (measured in the number of forward
PDE solves) that is independent of both the parameter and sensor dimensions. To
facilitate this, we construct a Gaussian approximation to the posterior at the
maximum a posteriori probability (MAP) point, and use the resulting covariance
operator to define the OED objective function. We use randomized trace
estimation to compute the trace of this (implicitly defined) covariance
operator. The resulting OED problem includes as constraints the PDEs
characterizing the MAP point, and the PDEs describing the action of the
covariance operator to vectors. The sparsity of the sensor configurations is
controlled using sparsifying penalty functions. We elaborate our OED method for
the problem of determining the sensor placement to best infer the coefficient
of an elliptic PDE. Adjoint methods are used to compute the gradient of the
PDE-constrained OED objective function. We provide numerical results for
inference of the permeability field in a porous medium flow problem, and
demonstrate that the number of PDE solves required for the evaluation of the
OED objective function and its gradient is essentially independent of both the
parameter and sensor dimensions. The number of quasi-Newton iterations for
computing an OED also exhibits the same dimension invariance properties.