Staggered chiral perturbation theory (schpt) takes into account the
"fourth-root trick" for reducing unwanted (taste) degrees of freedom with
staggered quarks by multiplying the contribution of each sea quark loop by a
factor of 1/4. In the special case of four staggered fields (four flavors,
nF=4), I show here that certain assumptions about analyticity and phase
structure imply the validity of this procedure for representing the rooting
trick in the chiral sector. I start from the observation that, when the four
flavors are degenerate, the fourth root simply reduces nF=4 to nF=1. One can
then treat nondegenerate quark masses by expanding around the degenerate limit.
With additional assumptions on decoupling, the result can be extended to the
more interesting cases of nF=3, 2, or 1. A apparent paradox associated with the
one-flavor case is resolved. Coupled with some expected features of unrooted
staggered quarks in the continuum limit, in particular the restoration of taste
symmetry, schpt then implies that the fourth-root trick induces no problems
(for example, a violation of unitarity that persists in the continuum limit) in
the lowest energy sector of staggered lattice QCD. It also says that the theory
with staggered valence quarks and rooted staggered sea quarks behaves like a
simple, partially-quenched theory, not like a "mixed" theory in which sea and
valence quarks have different lattice actions. In most cases, the assumptions
made in this paper are not only sufficient but also necessary for the validity
of schpt, so that a variety of possible new routes for testing this validity
are opened.