The action of a B\"acklund-Darboux transformation on a spectral problem
associated with a known integrable system can define a new discrete spectral
problem. In this paper, we interpret a slightly generalized version of the
binary B\"acklund-Darboux (or Zakharov-Shabat dressing) transformation for the
nonlinear Schr\"odinger (NLS) hierarchy as a discrete spectral problem, wherein
the two intermediate potentials appearing in the Darboux matrix are considered
as a pair of new dependent variables. Then, we associate the discrete spectral
problem with a suitable isospectral time-evolution equation, which forms the
Lax-pair representation for a space-discrete NLS system. This formulation is
valid for the most general case where the two dependent variables take values
in (rectangular) matrices. In contrast to the matrix generalization of the
Ablowitz-Ladik lattice, our discretization has a rational nonlinearity and
admits a Hermitian conjugation reduction between the two dependent variables.
Thus, a new proper space-discretization of the vector/matrix NLS equation is
obtained; by changing the time part of the Lax pair, we also obtain an
integrable space-discretization of the vector/matrix modified KdV (mKdV)
equation. Because B\"acklund-Darboux transformations are permutable, we can
increase the number of discrete independent variables in a multi-dimensionally
consistent way. By solving the consistency condition on the two-dimensional
lattice, we obtain a new Yang-Baxter map of the NLS type, which can be
considered as a fully discrete analog of the principal chiral model for
projection matrices.