We study the asymptotic behaviour of sharp front solutions arising from the
nonlinear diffusion equation \theta_t = (D(\theta)\theta_x)_x, where the
diffusivity is an exponential function D({\theta}) = D_o exp(\beta\theta). This
problem arises in the study of unsaturated flow in porous media where {\theta}
represents the liquid saturation. For the physical parameters corresponding to
actual porous media, the diffusivity at the residual saturation is D(0) = D_o
<< 1 so that the diffusion problem is nearly degenerate. Such problems are
characterised by wetting fronts that sharply delineate regions of saturated and
unsaturated flow, and that propagate with a well-defined speed. Using matched
asymptotic expansions in the limit of large {\beta}, we derive an analytical
description of the solution that is uniformly valid throughout the wetting
front. This is in contrast with most other related analyses that instead
truncate the solution at some specific wetting front location, which is then
calculated as part of the solution, and beyond that location the solution is
undefined. Our asymptotic analysis demonstrates that the solution has a
four-layer structure, and by matching through the adjacent layers we obtain an
estimate of the wetting front location in terms of the material parameters
describing the porous medium. Using numerical simulations of the original
nonlinear diffusion equation, we demonstrate that the first few terms in our
series solution yields approximations to physical quantities such as wetting
front location and speed of propagation that are more accurate (over a wide
range of admissible {\beta} values) than other asymptotic approximations
reported in the literature.