The goal of this paper is to develop and analyze some fully discrete finite
element methods for a displacement-pressure model modeling swelling dynamics of
polymer gels under mechanical constraints. In the model, the swelling dynamics
is governed by the solvent permeation and the elastic interaction; the
permeation is described by a pressure equation for the solvent, and the elastic
interaction is described by displacement equations for the solid network of the
gel. By introducing an "elastic pressure" we first present a reformulation of
the original model, and then propose a time-stepping scheme which decouples the
PDE system at each time step into two sub-problems, one of which is a
generalized Stokes problem for the displacement vector field and another is a
diffusion problem for a "pseudo-pressure" field. To make such a multiphysical
approach feasible, it is vital to discover admissible constraints to resolve
the uniqueness issue for both sub-problems. The main advantage of the proposed
approach is that it allows one to utilize any convergent Stokes solver together
with any convergent diffusion equation solver to solve the polymer gel model.
In the paper, the Taylor-Hood mixed finite element method combined with the
continuous linear finite element method are used as an example to present the
ideas and to demonstrate the viability of the proposed multiphysical approach.
It is proved that, under a mesh constraint, both the proposed semi-discrete (in
space) and fully discrete methods enjoy some discrete energy laws which mimic
the differential energy law satisfied by the PDE solution. Optimal order error
estimates in various norms are established for the numerical solutions of both
the semi-discrete and fully discrete methods. Numerical experiments are also
presented to show the efficiency of the proposed approach and methods.