This paper investigates the problem of interference among the simultaneous
multiuser transmissions in the downlink of multiple antennas systems. Using
symbol level precoding, a new approach towards the multiuser interference is
discussed along this paper. The concept of exploiting the interference between
the spatial multiuser transmissions by jointly utilizing the data information
(DI) and channel state information (CSI), in order to design symbol-level
precoders, is proposed. In this direction, the interference among the data
streams is transformed under certain conditions to useful signal that can
improve the signal to interference noise ratio (SINR) of the downlink
transmissions. We propose a maximum ratio transmission (MRT) based algorithm
that jointly exploits DI and CSI to glean the benefits from constructive
multiuser interference. Subsequently, a relation between the constructive
interference downlink transmission and physical layer multicasting is
established. In this context, novel constructive interference precoding
techniques that tackle the transmit power minimization (min power) with
individual SINR constraints at each user's receivers is proposed. Furthermore,
fairness through maximizing the weighted minimum SINR (max min SINR) of the
users is addressed by finding the link between the min power and max min SINR
problems. Moreover, heuristic precoding techniques are proposed to tackle the
weighted sum rate problem. Finally, extensive numerical results show that the
proposed schemes outperform other state of the art techniques.