An important question in the study of constraint satisfaction problems (CSP)
is understanding how the graph or hypergraph describing the incidence structure
of the constraints influences the complexity of the problem. For binary CSP
instances (i.e., where each constraint involves only two variables), the
situation is well understood: the complexity of the problem essentially depends
on the treewidth of the graph of the constraints. However, this is not the
correct answer if constraints with unbounded number of variables are allowed,
and in particular, for CSP instances arising from query evaluation problems in
database theory. Formally, if H is a class of hypergraphs, then let CSP(H) be
CSP restricted to instances whose hypergraph is in H. Our goal is to
characterize those classes of hypergraphs for which CSP(H) is polynomial-time
solvable or fixed-parameter tractable, parameterized by the number of
variables. Note that in the applications related to database query evaluation,
we usually assume that the number of variables is much smaller than the size of
the instance, thus parameterization by the number of variables is a meaningful
question. The most general known property of H that makes CSP(H)
polynomial-time solvable is bounded fractional hypertree width. Here we
introduce a new hypergraph measure called submodular width, and show that
bounded submodular width of H implies that CSP(H) is fixed-parameter tractable.
In a matching hardness result, we show that if H has unbounded submodular
width, then CSP(H) is not fixed-parameter tractable, unless the Exponential
Time Hypothesis fails.