We present a detailed study of localised magnetohydrodynamical (MHD)
instabilities occuring in two--dimensional magnetized accretion disks. We model
axisymmetric MHD disk tori, and solve the equations governing a
two--dimensional magnetized accretion disk equilibrium and linear wave modes
about this equilibrium. We show the existence of novel MHD instabilities in
these two--dimensional equilibria which do not occur in an accretion disk in
the cylindrical limit. The disk equilibria are numerically computed by the
FINESSE code. The stability of accretion disks is investigated analytically as
well as numerically. We use the PHOENIX code to compute all the waves and
instabilities accessible to the computed disk equilibrium. We concentrate on
strongly magnetized disks and sub--Keplerian rotation in a large part of the
disk. These disk equilibria show that the thermal pressure of the disk can only
decrease outwards if there is a strong gravitational potential. Our theoretical
stability analysis shows that convective continuum instabilities can only
appear if the density contours coincide with the poloidal magnetic flux
contours. Our numerical results confirm and complement this theoretical
analysis. Furthermore, these results show that the influence of gravity can
either be stabilizing or destabilizing on this new kind of MHD instability. In
the likely case of a non--constant density, the height of the disk should
exceed a threshold before this type of instability can play a role. This
localised MHD instability provides an ideal, linear route to MHD turbulence in
strongly magnetized accretion disk tori.