This work deals with two problems arising in mathematical ecology. The first
problem is concerned with diploid branching particle models and its behavior
when rapid stirring is added to the interaction. The particle models involve
two types of particles, male and female, and branching can only occur when both
types of particles are present. We show that if the branching rate is
sufficiently large, this particle model has a nontrivial stationary
distribution, i.e. one that does not concentrate all weight on the all-0 state,
using a comparison argument due to R. Durrett. We also show extinction for
small branching rates, thereby establishing the existence of a phase
transition. We then add two different rapid stirring mechanisms to the
interactions and show that for the particle models with rapid stirring, there
also exist nontrivial stationary distribution(s); for this, we analyze the
limiting PDE and establish a condition on the PDE that guarantees existence of
nontrivial stationary distributions for sufficient fast stirring.
  The second problem deals with a model of sympatric speciation, i.e.
speciation in the absence of geographical separation, originally proposed by U.
Dieckmann and M. Doebeli in 1999. We modify their original model to obtain
several constant-population particle models. We concentrate on a
continuous-time model that converges to a deterministic dynamical system as the
number of particles becomes large. We establish various results regarding
whether speciation occurs by studying the existence of bimodal stationary
distributions for the limiting dynamical system.