Runge Kutta Discontinuous Galerkin (RKDG) schemes can provide highly accurate
solutions for a large class of important scientific problems. Using them for
problems with shocks and other discontinuities requires that one has a strategy
for detecting the presence of these discontinuities. In order to get past
previous limitations in designing a limiter, we realize that the solution in
RKDG schemes can carry meaningful sub-structure within a zone that may not need
to be limited. To make this sub-structure visible, we take a sub-cell approach
to detecting zones with discontinuities, known as troubled zones. A
monotonicity preserving (MP) strategy is applied to distinguish between
meaningful sub-structure and shocks. The strategy does not indiscriminately
clip extrema and is, nevertheless, scale-free and problem-independent. The
moments of the troubled zones is corrected using a weighted essentially
non-oscillatory (WENO) or Hermite WENO (HWENO) approach. In the course of doing
this work it was also realized that the most significant variation in the
solution is contained in the solution variables and their first moments. Thus
it is shown that the additional moments can be reconstructed using the
variables and their first moments, resulting in a very substantial savings in
computer memory and without any loss in order of accuracy. We call such schemes
hybrid RKDG+HWENO schemes. Explicit, easy to implement formulae have been
catalogued for third and fourth order of spatial accuracy. Several stringent
test problems have also been presented.