We deal with the general problem of scattering by open-arcs in
two-dimensional space. We show that this problem can be solved by means of
certain second-kind integral equations of the form $\tilde{N}
\tilde{S}[\varphi] = f$, where $\tilde{N}$ and $\tilde{S}$ are first-kind
integral operators whose composition gives rise to a generalized Calder\'on
formula of the form $\tilde{N} \tilde{S} = \tilde{J}_0^\tau + \tilde{K}$ in a
{\em weighted, periodized} Sobolev space. The $\tilde{N} \tilde{S}$ formulation
provides, for the first time, a second-kind integral equation for the open-arc
scattering problem with Neumann boundary conditions. Numerical experiments show
that, for both the Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions, our second-kind
integral equations have spectra that are bounded away from zero and infinity as
$k\to \infty$; to the contributors' knowledge these are the first integral equations
for these problems that possess this desirable property. Our proofs rely on
three main elements: 1) Algebraic manipulations enabled by the presence of
integral weights; 2) Use of the classical result of continuity of the Ces\`aro
operator; and 3) Explicit characterization of the point spectrum of
$\tilde{J}^\tau_0$, which, interestingly, can be decomposed into the union of a
countable set and an open set, both tightly clustered around -1/4. As shown in
a separate contribution, the new approach can be used to construct simple
spectrally-accurate numerical solvers and, when used in conjunction with
Krylov-subspace solvers such as GMRES, gives rise to dramatic reductions of
Krylov-subspace iteration numbers vs. those required by other approaches.