We consider extensive data on Spanish international trades and population
composition and, through statistical-mechanics and graph-theory driven
analysis, we unveil that the social network made of native and foreign-born
individuals plays a role in the evolution and in the diversification of trades.
Indeed, migrants naturally provide key information on policies and needs in
their native countries, hence allowing firm's holders to leverage transactional
costs of exports and duties. As a consequence, international trading is
affordable for a larger basin of firms and thus results in an increased number
of transactions, which, in turn, implies a larger diversification of
international traded products. These results corroborate the novel scenario
depicted by "Economical Complexity", where the pattern of production and trade
of more developed countries is highly diversified. We also address a central
question in Economics, concerning the existence of a critical threshold for
migrants (within a given territorial district) over which they effectively
contribute to boost international trades: in our physically-driven picture,
this phenomenon corresponds to the emergence of a phase transition and,
tackling the problem from this perspective, results in a novel successful
quantitative route. Finally, we can infer that the pattern of interaction
between native and foreign-born population exhibits small-world features as
small diameter, large clustering, and weak ties working as optimal cut-edge, in
complete agreement with findings in "Social Complexity".