Finding an unconstrained and statistically interpretable reparameterization
of a covariance matrix is still an open problem in statistics. Its solution is
of central importance in covariance estimation, particularly in the recent
high-dimensional data environment where enforcing the positive-definiteness
constraint could be computationally expensive. We provide a survey of the
progress made in modeling covariance matrices from two relatively complementary
perspectives: (1) generalized linear models (GLM) or parsimony and use of
covariates in low dimensions, and (2) regularization or sparsity for
high-dimensional data. An emerging, unifying and powerful trend in both
perspectives is that of reducing a covariance estimation problem to that of
estimating a sequence of regression problems. We point out several instances of
the regression-based formulation. A notable case is in sparse estimation of a
precision matrix or a Gaussian graphical model leading to the fast graphical
LASSO algorithm. Some advantages and limitations of the regression-based
Cholesky decomposition relative to the classical spectral (eigenvalue) and
variance-correlation decompositions are highlighted. The former provides an
unconstrained and statistically interpretable reparameterization, and
guarantees the positive-definiteness of the estimated covariance matrix. It
reduces the unintuitive task of covariance estimation to that of modeling a
sequence of regressions at the cost of imposing an a priori order among the
variables. Elementwise regularization of the sample covariance matrix such as
banding, tapering and thresholding has desirable asymptotic properties and the
sparse estimated covariance matrix is positive definite with probability
tending to one for large samples and dimensions.