Knowledge Management (KM) is an approach to achieving strategic objectives by
visualizing, sharing, and using intangible resources of an organization and its
stakeholders. There are many studies that analyze specific factors for the
successful implementation of KM programs, and the evaluation of such factors is
considered a strategic tool for Public Organizations (POs) for efficiently
directing the implementation of a KM program. Nevertheless, there are cultural
problems such as weak trust, bad collaboration; technological problems as KM
systems difficult to use, nor interconnected or interoperable; and strategic
problems as political changes, not inter-administration continuity or lack of
political willingness. In this research we provide an overview of the key
factors for facilitating the implementation of KM programs. To this end, we
conducted a Systematic Literature Review (SLR) of success factors to create a
KM program for POs. Analyzing the twenty related studies we summarize benefits
and quality attributes of KM. Moreover, we obtained from an ongoing project
evaluation results of the KM factors ranked cultural, technological and
strategic. The results show that the Mexican POs have strategic and
technological issues such as: a misalignment between knowledge management and
organizational goals, it seems that POs are barely reusing their knowledge to
execute their daily activities or to take decisions, and is not possible to
know who and how a knowledge asset has been used. Finally, according to the
gaps and difficulties of the SLR, we provide strategies to successfully
implement KM programs in Mexico.