We describe the Riemann-Hilbert (RH) approach to computing the long-time
response of a Fermi gas to a time-dependent perturbation. The approach maps the
problem onto a non-commuting RH problem. The method is non-perturbative, quite
general and can be used to compute the Fermi gas response in driven (out of
equilibrium) as well as equilibrium systems. We illustrate the power of the
method by rederiving standard results for the core-hole and open-line Greens
functions for the equilibrium Fermi edge singularity (FES) problem. We then
show that the case of the non-separable potential can be solved
non-perturbatively with no more effort than for the separable case. We compute
the corresponding results for a biased (non-equilibrium) model tunneling
device, similar to those used in single photon detectors, in which a photon
absorption process can significantly change the conductance of the barrier. For
times much larger than the inverse bias across the device, the response of the
Fermi gases in the two electrodes shows that the equilibrium Fermi edge
singularity is smoothed, shifted in frequency and becomes
polarity-dependent.These results have a simple interpretation in terms of known
results for the equilibrium case but with (in general complex-valued)
combinations of elements of the scattering matrix replacing the equilibrium
phase shifts. We also consider the shot noise spectrum of a tunnel junction
subject to a time-dependent bias and demonstrate that the calculation is
essentially the same as for the FES problem. For the case of a periodically
driven device we show that the noise spectrum for the Coherent States of
Alternating Current can be easily obtained using this approach.