Let $G$ be a finitely generated group, and let $\Sigma$ be a finite subset
that generates $G$ as a monoid. The \emph{word problem of $G$ with respect to
$\Sigma$} consists of all words in the free monoid $\Sigma^{\ast}$ that are
equal to the identity in $G$. The \emph{co-word problem of $G$ with respect to
$\Sigma$} is the complement in $\Sigma^{\ast}$ of the word problem. We say that
a group $G$ is \emph{co$\mathcal{CF}$} if its co-word problem with respect to
some (equivalently, any) finite generating set $\Sigma$ is a context-free
language.
  We describe a generalized Thompson group $V_{(G, \theta)}$ for each finite
group G and homomorphism $\theta$: $G \rightarrow G$. Our group is constructed
using the cloning systems introduced by Witzel and Zaremsky. We prove that
$V_{(G, \theta)}$ is co$\mathcal{CF}$ for any homomorphism $\theta$ and finite
group G by constructing a pushdown automaton and showing that the co-word
problem of $V_{(G, \theta)}$ is the cyclic shift of the language accepted by
our automaton.
  A version of a conjecture due to Lehnert says that a group has context-free
co-word problem exactly if it is a finitely generated subgroup of V. The groups
$V_{(G,\theta)}$ where $\theta$ is not the identity homomorphism do not appear
to have obvious embeddings into V, and may therefore be considered possible
counterexamples to the conjecture.
  Demonstrative subgroups of $V$, which were introduced by Bleak and
Salazar-Diaz, can be used to construct embeddings of certain wreath products
and amalgamated free products into $V$. We extend the class of known finitely
generated demonstrative subgroups of V to include all virtually cyclic groups.