Internet users such as individuals and organizations are subject to different
types of epidemic risks such as worms, viruses, spams, and botnets. To reduce
the probability of risk, an Internet user generally invests in traditional
security mechanisms like anti-virus and anti-spam software, sometimes also
known as \emph{self-defense} mechanisms. However, according to security
experts, such software (and their subsequent advancements) will not completely
eliminate risk. Recent research efforts have considered the problem of residual
risk elimination by proposing the idea of \emph{cyber-insurance}. In this
regard, an important research problem is resolving information asymmetry issues
associated with cyber-insurance contracts. In this paper we propose
\emph{three} mechanisms to resolve information asymmetry in cyber-insurance.
Our mechanisms are based on the \emph{Principal-Agent} (PA) model in
microeconomic theory. We show that (1) optimal cyber-insurance contracts
induced by our mechanisms only provide partial coverage to the insureds. This
ensures greater self-defense efforts on the part of the latter to protect their
computing systems, which in turn increases overall network security, (2) the
level of deductible per network user contract increases in a concave manner
with the topological degree of the user, and (3) a market for cyber-insurance
can be made to exist in the presence of monopolistic insurers under effective
mechanism design. Our methodology is applicable to any distributed network
scenario in which a framework for cyber-insurance can be implemented.