It is remarked that the SuperKamiokande (SK) discovery of $\nu_\mu$ to
$\nu_\tau$ (or $\nu_X$)-oscillation, with a $\delta m^2 \approx 10^{-2}-10^{-3}
eV^2$ and $sin^2 2 \theta > 0.8$, provides a clear need for the right-handed
(RH) neutrinos. This in turn reinforces the ideas of the left-right symmetric
gauge structure $SU(2)_L \times SU(2)_R$ as well as SU(4)-color, for which the
RH neutrinos are a compelling feature. It is noted that by assuming (a) that
B-L and $I_{3R}$, contained in a string-derived $G(224) = SU(2)_L \times
SU(2)_R \times SU(4)^c$ or SO(10), break near the GUT-scale, as opposed to an
intermediate scale, (b) the see-saw mechanism, and (c) the SU(4)-color relation
between the Dirac mass of the tau neutrino and $m_{top}$, one obtains a mass
for $\nu^\tau_L$ which is just about what is observed. This is assuming that
the SK group is actually seeing $\nu^\mu_L - \nu^\tau_L$ (rather than
$\nu_L^\mu - \nu_X$) oscillation. Following a very recent work by Babu, Wilczek
and myself, it is furthermore noted that one can quite plausibly obtain a large
$\nu_L^\mu-\nu_L^\tau$ oscillation angle, as observed, in spite of highly
non-degenerate masses of the light neutrinos: e.g. with
$m(\nu_L^\mu)/m(\nu_L^\tau)\approx 1/10-1/20$. Such non-degeneracy is of course
natural to see-saw. In this case, $\nu^e_L - \nu^\mu_L$ oscillation can be
relevant to the small angle MSW explanation of the solar neutrino puzzle.
Implications of the mass of $\nu^\tau_L$ suggested by the SK result, on proton
decay are noted. Comments are made at the end on how the SuperKamiokande result
supplements the LEP result in selecting out the route to higher unification.