In this paper, the filter-and-forward (FF) relay design for orthogonal
frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) transmission systems is considered to
improve the system performance over simple amplify-and-forward (AF) relaying.
Unlike conventional OFDM relays performing OFDM demodulation and remodulation,
to reduce processing complexity, the proposed FF relay directly filters the
incoming signal in time domain with a finite impulse response (FIR) and
forwards the filtered signal to the destination. Three design criteria are
considered to optimize the relay filter. The first criterion is the
minimization of the relay transmit power subject to per-subcarrier
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) constraints, the second is the maximization of the
worst subcarrier channel SNR subject to source and relay transmit power
constraints, and the third is the maximization of data rate subject to source
and relay transmit power constraints. It is shown that the first problem
reduces to a semi-definite programming (SDP) problem by semi-definite
relaxation and the solution to the relaxed SDP problem has rank one under a
mild condition. For the latter two problems, the problem of joint source power
allocation and relay filter design is considered and an efficient algorithm is
proposed for each problem based on alternating optimization and the projected
gradient method (PGM). Numerical results show that the proposed FF relay
significantly outperforms simple AF relays with insignificant increase in
complexity. Thus, the proposed FF relay provides a practical alternative to the
AF relaying scheme for OFDM transmission.