The split Bregman (SB) method [T. Goldstein and S. Osher, SIAM J. Imaging
Sci., 2 (2009), pp. 323-43] is a fast splitting-based algorithm that solves
image reconstruction problems with general l1, e.g., total-variation (TV) and
compressed sensing (CS), regularizations by introducing a single variable split
to decouple the data-fitting term and the regularization term, yielding simple
subproblems that are separable (or partially separable) and easy to minimize.
Several convergence proofs have been proposed, and these proofs either impose a
"full column rank" assumption to the split or assume exact updates in all
subproblems. However, these assumptions are impractical in many applications
such as the X-ray computed tomography (CT) image reconstructions, where the
inner least-squares problem usually cannot be solved efficiently due to the
highly shift-variant Hessian. In this paper, we show that when the data-fitting
term is quadratic, the SB method is a convergent alternating direction method
of multipliers (ADMM), and a straightforward convergence proof with inexact
updates is given using [J. Eckstein and D. P. Bertsekas, Mathematical
Programming, 55 (1992), pp. 293-318, Theorem 8]. Furthermore, since the SB
method is just a special case of an ADMM algorithm, it seems likely that the
ADMM algorithm will be faster than the SB method if the augmented Largangian
(AL) penalty parameters are selected appropriately. To have a concrete example,
we conduct a convergence rate analysis of the ADMM algorithm using two splits
for image restoration problems with quadratic data-fitting term and
regularization term. According to our analysis, we can show that the two-split
ADMM algorithm can be faster than the SB method if the AL penalty parameter of
the SB method is suboptimal. Numerical experiments were conducted to verify our
analysis.