Sum-rate maximization in two-way amplify-and-forward (AF) multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) relaying belongs to the class of difference-of-convex
functions (DC) programming problems. DC programming problems occur as well in
other signal processing applications and are typically solved using different
modifications of the branch-and-bound method. This method, however, does not
have any polynomial time complexity guarantees. In this paper, we show that a
class of DC programming problems, to which the sum-rate maximization in two-way
MIMO relaying belongs, can be solved very efficiently in polynomial time, and
develop two algorithms. The objective function of the problem is represented as
a product of quadratic ratios and parameterized so that its convex part (versus
the concave part) contains only one (or two) optimization variables. One of the
algorithms is called POlynomial-Time DC (POTDC) and is based on semi-definite
programming (SDP) relaxation, linearization, and an iterative search over a
single parameter. The other algorithm is called RAte-maximization via
Generalized EigenvectorS (RAGES) and is based on the generalized eigenvectors
method and an iterative search over two (or one, in its approximate version)
optimization variables. We also derive an upper-bound for the optimal values of
the corresponding optimization problem and show by simulations that this
upper-bound can be achieved by both algorithms. The proposed methods for
maximizing the sum-rate in the two-way AF MIMO relaying system are shown to be
superior to other state-of-the-art algorithms.