The discovery of causal relationships from purely observational data is a
fundamental problem in science. The most elementary form of such a causal
discovery problem is to decide whether X causes Y or, alternatively, Y causes
X, given joint observations of two variables X,Y. An example is to decide
whether altitude causes temperature, or vice versa, given only joint
measurements of both variables. Even under the simplifying assumptions of
causal sufficiency, no feedback loops, and no selection bias, such bivariate
causal discovery problems are very challenging. Nevertheless, several
approaches for addressing those problems have been proposed in recent years. We
review two families of such methods: Additive Noise Methods (ANM) and
Information Geometric Causal Inference (IGCI). We present the benchmark
CauseEffectPairs that consists of data for 96 different cause-effect pairs
selected from 34 datasets from various domains (e.g., meteorology, biology,
medicine, engineering, economy, etc.). We motivate our decisions regarding the
"ground truth" causal directions of all pairs. We evaluate the performance of
several bivariate causal discovery methods on these real-world benchmark data
and in addition on artificially simulated data. Our empirical results indicate
that certain methods are able to distinguish cause from effect using only
purely observational data with an accuracy of 63-69%. Because of
multiple-testing corrections, however, considerably more benchmark data would
be needed to obtain statistically significant conclusions. A theoretical
contribution of this paper is a proof of the consistency of the additive-noise
method as originally proposed by Hoyer et al. (2009).