A key task in social network and other complex network analysis is role
analysis: describing and categorizing nodes according to how they interact with
other nodes. Two nodes have the same role if they interact with equivalent sets
of neighbors. The most fundamental role equivalence is automorphic equivalence.
Unfortunately, the fastest algorithms known for graph automorphism are
nonpolynomial. Moreover, since exact equivalence may be rare, a more meaningful
task is to measure the role similarity between any two nodes. This task is
closely related to the structural or link-based similarity problem that SimRank
attempts to solve. However, SimRank and most of its offshoots are not
sufficient because they do not fully recognize automorphically or structurally
equivalent nodes. In this paper we tackle two problems. First, what are the
necessary properties for a role similarity measure or metric? Second, how can
we derive a role similarity measure satisfying these properties? For the first
problem, we justify several axiomatic properties necessary for a role
similarity measure or metric: range, maximal similarity, automorphic
equivalence, transitive similarity, and the triangle inequality. For the second
problem, we present RoleSim, a new similarity metric with a simple iterative
computational method. We rigorously prove that RoleSim satisfies all the
axiomatic properties. We also introduce an iceberg RoleSim algorithm which can
guarantee to discover all pairs with RoleSim score no less than a user-defined
threshold $\theta$ without computing the RoleSim for every pair. We demonstrate
the superior interpretative power of RoleSim on both both synthetic and real
datasets.