The travel time required for one civilisation to explore the Milky Way using
probes is a crucial component of Fermi's Paradox. Previous attempts to estimate
this travel time have assumed that the probe's motion is simple, moving at a
constant maximum velocity, with powered flight producing the necessary change
in velocity required at each star to complete its chosen trajectory. This
approach ignores lessons learned from interplanetary exploration, where orbital
slingshot maneouvres can provide significant velocity boosts at little to no
fuel cost. It is plausible that any attempt to explore the Galaxy would utilise
such economising techniques, despite there being an upper limit to these
velocity boosts, related to the escape velocity of the object being used to
provide the slingshot.
  In order to investigate the effects of these techniques, we present multiple
realisations of single probes exploring a small patch of the Milky Way. We
investigate 3 separate scenarios, studying the slingshot effect on trajectories
defined by simple heuristics. These scenarios are: i) standard powered flight
to the nearest unvisited star without using slingshot techniques; ii) flight to
the nearest unvisited star using slingshot techniques, and iii) flight to the
next unvisited star which provides the maximal velocity boost under a slingshot
trajectory.
  We find that adding slingshot velocity boosts can decrease the travel time by
up to two orders of magnitude over simple powered flight. In the third case,
selecting a route which maximises velocity boosts also reduces the travel time
relative to powered flight, but by a much reduced factor. From these
simulations, we suggest that adding realistic probe trajectories tends to
strengthen Fermi's Paradox.