We consider a single-hop data gathering sensor cluster consisting of a set of
sensors that need to transmit data periodically to a base-station. We are
interested in maximizing the lifetime of this network. Even though the setting
of our problem is very simple, it turns out that the solution is far from easy.
The complexity arises from several competing system-level opportunities
available to reduce the energy consumed in radio transmission. First, sensor
data is spatially and temporally correlated. Recent advances in distributed
source-coding allow us to take advantage of these correlations to reduce the
number of transmitted bits, with concomitant savings in energy. Second, it is
also well-known that channel-coding can be used to reduce transmission energy
by increasing transmission time. Finally, sensor nodes are cooperative, unlike
nodes in an ad hoc network that are often modeled as competitive, allowing us
to take full advantage of the first two opportunities for the purpose of
maximizing cluster lifetime. In this paper, we pose the problem of maximizing
lifetime as a max-min optimization problem subject to the constraint of
successful data collection and limited energy supply at each node. By
introducing the notion of instantaneous decoding, we are able to simplify this
optimization problem into a joint scheduling and time allocation problem. We
show that even with our ample simplification, the problem remains NP-hard. We
provide some algorithms, heuristics and insight for various scenarios. Our
chief contribution is to illustrate both the challenges and gains provided by
joint source-channel coding and scheduling.