In spatial evolutionary games the fitness of each individual is traditionally
determined by the payoffs it obtains upon playing the game with its neighbors.
Since defection yields the highest individual benefits, the outlook for
cooperators is gloomy. While network reciprocity promotes collaborative
efforts, chances of averting the impending social decline are slim if the
temptation to defect is strong. It is therefore of interest to identify viable
mechanisms that provide additional support for the evolution of cooperation.
Inspired by the fact that the environment may be just as important as
inheritance for individual development, we introduce a simple switch that
allows a player to either keep its original payoff or use the average payoff of
all its neighbors. Depending on which payoff is higher, the influence of either
option can be tuned by means of a single parameter. We show that, in general,
taking into account the environment promotes cooperation. Yet coveting the
fitness of one's neighbors too strongly is not optimal. In fact, cooperation
thrives best only if the influence of payoffs obtained in the traditional way
is equal to that of the average payoff of the neighborhood. We present results
for the prisoner's dilemma and the snowdrift game, for different levels of
uncertainty governing the strategy adoption process, and for different
neighborhood sizes. Our approach outlines a viable route to increased levels of
cooperative behavior in structured populations, but one that requires a
thoughtful implementation.