We analyze the dispersions of distributed lossless source coding (the
Slepian-Wolf problem), the multiple-access channel and the asymmetric broadcast
channel. For the two-encoder Slepian-Wolf problem, we introduce a quantity
known as the entropy dispersion matrix, which is analogous to the scalar
dispersions that have gained interest recently. We prove a global dispersion
result that can be expressed in terms of this entropy dispersion matrix and
provides intuition on the approximate rate losses at a given blocklength and
error probability. To gain better intuition about the rate at which the
non-asymptotic rate region converges to the Slepian-Wolf boundary, we define
and characterize two operational dispersions: the local dispersion and the
weighted sum-rate dispersion. The former represents the rate of convergence to
a point on the Slepian-Wolf boundary while the latter represents the fastest
rate for which a weighted sum of the two rates converges to its asymptotic
fundamental limit. Interestingly, when we approach either of the two corner
points, the local dispersion is characterized not by a univariate Gaussian but
a bivariate one as well as a subset of off-diagonal elements of the
aforementioned entropy dispersion matrix. Finally, we demonstrate the
versatility of our achievability proof technique by providing inner bounds for
the multiple-access channel and the asymmetric broadcast channel in terms of
dispersion matrices. All our proofs are unified a so-called vector rate
redundancy theorem which is proved using the multidimensional Berry-Esseen
theorem.