We consider generalizations of kinetic granular gas models given by Boltzmann
equations of Maxwell type. These type of models for non-linear elastic or
inelastic interactions, have many applications in physics, dynamics of granular
gases, economy, etc. We present the problem and develop its form in the space
of characteristic functions, i.e. Fourier transforms of probability measures,
from a very general point of view, including those with arbitrary polynomial
non-linearities and in any dimension space. We find a whole class of
generalized Maxwell models that satisfy properties that characterize the
existence and asymptotic of dynamically scaled or self-similar solutions, often
referred as {\em homogeneous cooling states}. Of particular interest is a
concept interpreted as an operator generalization of usual Lipschitz conditions
which allows to describe the behavior of solutions to the corresponding initial
value problem. In particular, we present, in the most general case, existence
of self similar solutions and study, in the sense of probability measures, the
convergence of dynamically scaled solutions associated with the Cauchy problem
to those self-similar solutions, as time goes to infinity. In addition we show
that the properties of these self-similar solutions lead to non classical
equilibrium stable states exhibiting power tails. These results apply to
different specific problems related to the Boltzmann equation (with elastic and
inelastic interactions) and show that all physically relevant properties of
solutions follow directly from the general theory developed in this
presentation.