Quantum above-barrier reflection of ultra-cold atoms by the Rosen-Morse
potential is analytically considered within the mean field Gross-Pitaevskii
approximation. Reformulating the problem of reflectionless transmission as a
quasi-linear eigenvalue problem for the potential depth, an approximation for
the specific height of the potential that supports reflectionless transmission
of the incoming matter wave is derived via modification of the
Rayleigh-Schroedinger time-independent perturbation theory. The approximation
provides highly accurate description of the resonance position for all the
resonance orders if the nonlinearity parameter is small compared with the
incoming particles chemical potential. Notably, the result for the first
transmission resonance turns out to be exact, i.e., the derived formula for the
resonant potential height gives the exact value of the first nonlinear
resonances position for all the allowed variation range of the involved
parameters, the nonlinearity parameter and chemical potential. This has been
shown by constructing the exact solution of the problem for the first
resonance. Furthermore, the presented approximation reveals that, in contrast
to the linear case, in the nonlinear case reflectionless transmission may occur
not only for potential wells but also for potential barriers with positive
potential height. It also shows that the nonlinear shift of the resonance
position from the position of the corresponding linear resonance is
approximately described as a linear function of the resonance order. Finally, a
compact (yet, highly accurate) analytic formula for the n-th order resonance
position is constructed via combination of analytical and numerical methods.