The Boolean satisfiability (SAT) problem is the first known example of an
NP-complete problem, and thousands of NP-compete problems have been identified
by reducing the SAT to the problems. Researchers have tried to find a definite
mathematical expression that distinguishes among NL-complete, P-complete, and
NP-complete problems such as 2-SAT, Horn-SAT, and 3-SAT. In this paper, we
introduce the natural number system hidden inside the SAT structure. We reduce
a SAT instance to an integer-programming instance. Then, we focus on the
distance from an integral point to the facets of the projected polytope. We
newly define a dominant variable, decision chain, and chain coupler as a novel
element of a Boolean formula. From the analysis of the SAT structure using the
elements, we show that the coefficients of the normal vector of the facet can
be expressed with the natural number system of which the exponent is
exponential in the input size. Furthermore, we prove that an integral point,
which is not contained in the solution region, can locate exponentially near
the projected polytope by the number system. Finally, we show that the number
system is not formed in 2-SAT, but partially formed in Horn-SAT according to
the feasible value of a dominant variable, and always formed in k-SAT (k>2)
regardless of the feasible value of a dominant variable. Two questions, NL =? P
and P =? NP, have been open problems for several decades. This study presents a
definite supporting evidence for the conjecture that NL is a proper subset of P
and P is a proper subset of NP, and a new solving direction for the P versus NP
problem.