In situations where establishing a network infrastructure is impossible,
Ad-hoc networks are considered particularly important. Most of the previous
research in Ad-hoc networks concentrated on the development and enhancement of
dynamic routing protocols, which could efficiently discover routes between two
communicating nodes. Although routing strategies is an important topic in
MANETs, other topics such as data access are also crucial since the final goal
of using Ad-hoc networks is to provide data access to mobile nodes. One of the
most attractive techniques used to improve the data access performance in MANET
environment is cooperative caching; which means multiple caching nodes share
and cooperatively manage the cached contents. It is lead the research to
important questions, what data should be cached, where, when, and how? A
cooperative caching addressed into two basic issues: cache discovery and cache
management, in other words, how to find requested data efficiently and how to
manage an individual cache to improve the overall capacity of a cooperated
cache. In this paper we have made a review of the existing cache discovery
algorithms to address four stages after application request and before server
response, using an historical file to record the previous data requests, and
proposed cluster architecture with data cluster head election to store
efficient information for future use and reducing the cost of flooding. In
addition, this paper suggests some alternative techniques for cache discovery.
Finally, the paper concludes with a discussion on future research directions.