The existence of a polynomial kernel for Odd Cycle Transversal was a
notorious open problem in parameterized complexity. Recently, this was settled
by the present contributors (Kratsch and Wahlstr\"om, SODA 2012), with a randomized
polynomial kernel for the problem, using matroid theory to encode flow
questions over a set of terminals in size polynomial in the number of
terminals.
  In the current work we further establish the usefulness of matroid theory to
kernelization by showing applications of a result on representative sets due to
Lov\'asz (Combinatorial Surveys 1977) and Marx (TCS 2009). We show how
representative sets can be used to give a polynomial kernel for the elusive
Almost 2-SAT problem. We further apply the representative sets tool to the
problem of finding irrelevant vertices in graph cut problems, i.e., vertices
which can be made undeletable without affecting the status of the problem. This
gives the first significant progress towards a polynomial kernel for the
Multiway Cut problem; in particular, we get a kernel of O(k^{s+1}) vertices for
Multiway Cut instances with at most s terminals. Both these kernelization
results have significant spin-off effects, producing the first polynomial
kernels for a range of related problems.
  More generally, the irrelevant vertex results have implications for covering
min-cuts in graphs. For a directed graph G=(V,E) and sets S, T \subseteq V, let
r be the size of a minimum (S,T)-vertex cut (which may intersect S and T). We
can find a set Z \subseteq V of size O(|S|*|T|*r) which contains a minimum
(A,B)-vertex cut for every A \subseteq S, B \subseteq T. Similarly, for an
undirected graph G=(V,E), a set of terminals X \subseteq V, and a constant s,
we can find a set Z\subseteq V of size O(|X|^{s+1}) which contains a minimum
multiway cut for any partition of X into at most s pairwise disjoint subsets.