We investigate the evolution of star-forming gas-rich disks, using a 3D
chemodynamical model including a dark halo, stars, and a two-phase interstellar
medium with feedback processes from the stars. We show that galaxy evolution
proceeds along very different routes depending on whether it is the gas disk or
the stellar disk which first becomes unstable, as measured by the respective
Q-parameters. This in turn depends on the uncertain efficiency of energy
dissipation of the cold cloud component from which stars form. When the cold
gas cools efficiently and drives the instability, the galactic disk fragments
and forms a number of massive clumps of stars and gas. The clumps spiral to the
center of the galaxy in a few dynamical times and merge there to form a central
bulge component in a strong starburst. When the kinetic energy of the cold
clouds is dissipated at a lower rate, stars form from the gas in a more
quiescent mode, and an instability only sets in at later times, when the
surface density of the stellar disk has grown sufficiently high. The system
then forms a stellar bar, which channels gas into the center, evolves, and
forms a bulge whose stars are the result of a more extended star formation
history. We investigate the stability of the gas-stellar disks in both regimes,
as well as the star formation rates and element enrichment. We study the
morphology of the evolving disks, calculating spatially resolved colours from
the distribution of stars in age and metallicity, including dust absorption. We
then discuss morphological observations such as clumpy structures and chain
galaxies at high redshift as possible signatures of fragmenting, gas-rich
disks. Finally, we investigate abundance ratio distributions as a means to
distinguish the different scenarios for bulge formation.