In this paper we propose and analyze an interior penalty discontinuous
Galerkin (IP-DG) method using piecewise linear polynomials for the elastic
Helmholtz equations with the first order absorbing boundary condition. It is
proved that the sesquilinear form for the problem satisfies a generalized weak
coercivity property, which immediately infers a stability estimate for the
solution of the differential problem in all frequency regimes. It is also
proved that the proposed IP-DG method is unconditionally stable with respect to
both frequency $\omega$ and mesh size $h$. Sub-optimal order (with respect to
$h$) error estimates in the broken $H^1$-norm and in the $L^2$-norm are
obtained in all mesh regimes. These estimate improve to optimal order when the
mesh size $h$ is restricted to the pre-asymptotic regime (i.e., $\omega^\beta h
=O(1)$ for some $1\leq \beta<2$). The novelties of the proposed IP-DG method
include: first, the method penalizes not only the jumps of the function values
across the element edges but also the jumps of the normal derivatives; second,
the penalty parameters are taken as complex numbers with positive imaginary
parts. In order to establish the desired unconditional stability estimate for
the numerical solution, the main idea is to exploit a (simple) property of
linear functions to overcome the main difficulty caused by non-Hermitian nature
and strong indefiniteness of the Helmholtz-type problem. The error estimate is
then derived using a nonstandard technique adapted from \cite{Feng_Wu09}.
Numerical experiments are also presented to validate the theoretical results
and to numerically examine the pollution effect (with respect to $\omega$) in
the error bounds.