We study the design of truthful mechanisms that do not use payments for the
generalized assignment problem (GAP) and its variants. An instance of the GAP
consists of a bipartite graph with jobs on one side and machines on the other.
Machines have capacities and edges have values and sizes; the goal is to
construct a welfare maximizing feasible assignment. In our model of private
valuations, motivated by impossibility results, the value and sizes on all
job-machine pairs are public information; however, whether an edge exists or
not in the bipartite graph is a job's private information.
  We study several variants of the GAP starting with matching. For the
unweighted version, we give an optimal strategyproof mechanism; for maximum
weight bipartite matching, however, we show give a 2-approximate strategyproof
mechanism and show by a matching lowerbound that this is optimal. Next we study
knapsack-like problems, which are APX-hard. For these problems, we develop a
general LP-based technique that extends the ideas of Lavi and Swamy to reduce
designing a truthful mechanism without money to designing such a mechanism for
the fractional version of the problem, at a loss of a factor equal to the
integrality gap in the approximation ratio. We use this technique to obtain
strategyproof mechanisms with constant approximation ratios for these problems.
We then design an O(log n)-approximate strategyproof mechanism for the GAP by
reducing, with logarithmic loss in the approximation, to our solution for the
value-invariant GAP. Our technique may be of independent interest for designing
truthful mechanisms without money for other LP-based problems.