The class of memory circuit elements which comprises memristive,
memcapacitive, and meminductive systems, is gaining considerable attention in a
broad range of disciplines. This is due to the enormous flexibility these
elements provide in solving diverse problems in analog/neuromorphic and
digital/quantum computation; the possibility to use them in an integrated
computing-memory paradigm, massively-parallel solution of different
optimization problems, learning, neural networks, etc. The time is therefore
ripe to introduce these elements to the next generation of physicists and
engineers with appropriate teaching tools that can be easily implemented in
undergraduate teaching laboratories. In this paper, we suggest the use of
easy-to-build emulators to provide a hands-on experience for the students to
learn the fundamental properties and realize several applications of these
memelements. We provide explicit examples of problems that could be tackled
with these emulators that range in difficulty from the demonstration of the
basic properties of memristive, memcapacitive, and meminductive systems to
logic/computation and cross-bar memory. The emulators can be built from
off-the-shelf components, with a total cost of a few tens of dollars, thus
providing a relatively inexpensive platform for the implementation of these
exercises in the classroom. We anticipate that this experiment-based learning
can be easily adopted and expanded by the instructors with many more case
studies.