Self-gravity computation by multipole expansion is a common approach in
problems such as core-collapse and Type Ia supernovae, where single large
condensations of mass must be treated. The standard formulation of multipole
self-gravity suffers from two significant sources of error, which we correct in
the formulation presented in this article. The first source of error is due to
the numerical approximation that effectively places grid cell mass at the
central point of the cell, then computes the gravitational potential at that
point, resulting in a convergence failure of the multipole expansion. We
describe a new scheme that avoids this problem by computing gravitational
potential at cell faces. The second source of error is due to sub-optimal
choice of location for the expansion center, which results in angular power at
high multipole $l$ values in the gravitational field, requiring a high --- and
expensive --- value of multipole cutoff \lmax. By introducing a global measure
of angular power in the gravitational field, we show that the optimal
coordinate for the expansion is the square-density-weighted mean location. We
subject our new multipole self-gravity algorithm to two rigorous test problems:
MacLaurin spheroids for which exact analytic solutions are known, and
core-collapse supernovae. We show that key observables of the core-collapse
simulations, particularly shock expansion, proto-neutron star motion, and
momentum conservation, are extremely sensitive to the accuracy of the multipole
gravity, and the accuracy of their computation is greatly improved by our
reformulated solver.