We present the outline of a research project aimed at designing and
constructing a hybrid computing system that can be easily scaled up to
petaflops speeds. As a first step, we envision building a prototype which will
consist of three main components: a general-purpose, programmable front end, a
special-purpose, fully hardwired computing engine, and a multi-purpose,
reconfigurable system. The driving application will be a suite of
particle-based large-scale simulations in various areas of physics. The
prototype system will achieve performance in the $\sim 50 - 100$ teraflops
range for a broad class of applications in this area. The combination of a
hardwired petaflops-class computational engine and a front end with sustained
speed on the order of 10 gigaflops can produce extremely high performance, but
only for the limited class of problems in which there exists a single
bottleneck with computing cost dominating the total. While the calculation for
which the Grape-4 (our system's immediate predecessor) was designed is a prime
example of such a problem, in many other applications the primary computational
bottleneck, while still related to an inverse-square (gravitational, Coulomb,
etc.) force, requires less than 99% of the computing power. Although the
remainder of the CPU time is typically dominated by just one secondary
bottleneck, its nature varies greatly from problem to problem. It is not
cost-effective to attempt to design custom chips for each new problem that
arises. FPGA-based systems can restore the balance, guaranteeing scalability
from the teraflops to the petaflops domain, while still retaining significant
flexibility. (abbreviated abstract)