We study the problem of rendezvous of two mobile agents starting at distinct
locations in an unknown graph. The agents have distinct labels and walk in
synchronous steps. However the graph is unlabelled and the agents have no means
of marking the nodes of the graph and cannot communicate with or see each other
until they meet at a node. When the graph is very large we want the time to
rendezvous to be independent of the graph size and to depend only on the
initial distance between the agents and some local parameters such as the
degree of the vertices, and the size of the agent's label. It is well known
that even for simple graphs of degree $\Delta$, the rendezvous time can be
exponential in $\Delta$ in the worst case. In this paper, we introduce a new
version of the rendezvous problem where the agents are equipped with a device
that measures its distance to the other agent after every step. We show that
these \emph{distance-aware} agents are able to rendezvous in any unknown graph,
in time polynomial in all the local parameters such the degree of the nodes,
the initial distance $D$ and the size of the smaller of the two agent labels $l
= \min(l_1, l_2)$. Our algorithm has a time complexity of
$O(\Delta(D+\log{l}))$ and we show an almost matching lower bound of
$\Omega(\Delta(D+\log{l}/\log{\Delta}))$ on the time complexity of any
rendezvous algorithm in our scenario. Further, this lower bound extends
existing lower bounds for the general rendezvous problem without distance
awareness.