We consider classical normal modes and non-interacting bosonic excitations in
disordered systems. We emphasise generic aspects of such problems and parallels
with disordered, non-interacting systems of fermions, and discuss in particular
the relevance for bosonic excitations of symmetry classes known in the
fermionic context. We also stress important differences between bosonic and
fermionic problems. One of these follows from the fact that ground state
stability of a system requires all bosonic excitation energy levels to be
positive, while stability in systems of non-interacting fermions is ensured by
the exclusion principle, whatever the single-particle energies. As a
consequence, simple models of uncorrelated disorder are less useful for bosonic
systems than for fermionic ones, and it is generally important to study the
excitation spectrum in conjunction with the problem of constructing a
disorder-dependent ground state: we show how a mapping to an operator with
chiral symmetry provides a useful tool for doing this. A second difference
involves the distinction for bosonic systems between excitations which are
Goldstone modes and those which are not. In the case of Goldstone modes we
review established results illustrating the fact that disorder decouples from
excitations in the low frequency limit, above a critical dimension $d_c$, which
in different circumstances takes the values $d_c=2$ and $d_c=0$. For bosonic
excitations which are not Goldstone modes, we argue that an excitation density
varying with frequency as $\rho(\omega) \propto \omega^4$ is a universal
feature in systems with ground states that depend on the disorder realisation.
We illustrate our conclusions with extensive analytical and some numerical
calculations for a variety of models in one dimension.