Consider a finite set of identical computational entities that can move
freely in the Euclidean plane operating in Look-Compute-Move cycles. Let p(t)
denote the location of entity p at time t; entity p can see entity q at time t
if at that time no other entity lies in the line segment p(t)q(t). We consider
the basic problem called Mutual Visibility: starting from arbitrary distinct
locations, within finite time the entities must reach, without collisions, a
configuration where they all see each other. This problem must be solved by
each entity autonomously executing the same algorithm. We study this problem in
the "luminous robots" model; in this generalization of the standard model of
oblivious robots, each entity, called "robot", has an externally visible
persistent light which can assume colors from a fixed set. The case where the
number of colors is c=1 corresponds to the classical model without lights.
  In this paper we investigate under what conditions luminous robots can solve
Mutual Visibility without collisions and at what cost (i.e., with how many
colors). We establish a spectrum of results, depending on the power of the
adversary, on the number c of colors, and on the a-priori knowledge the robots
have about the system. Among such results, we prove that Mutual Visibility can
always be solved without collisions in SSynch with c=2 colors and in ASynch
with c=3 colors. If an adversary can interrupt and stop a robot moving to its
computed destination, Mutual Visibility is still always solvable without
collisions in SSynch with c=3 colors, and, if the robots agree on the direction
of one axis, also in ASynch. All the results are obtained constructively by
means of novel protocols.
  As a byproduct of our solutions, we provide the first obstructed-visibility
solutions to two classical problems for oblivious robots: Collision-less
Convergence to a point and Circle Formation.