We explore clustering problems in the streaming sliding window model in both
general metric spaces and Euclidean space. We present the first polylogarithmic
space $O(1)$-approximation to the metric $k$-median and metric $k$-means
problems in the sliding window model, answering the main open problem posed by
Babcock, Datar, Motwani and O'Callaghan, which has remained unanswered for over
a decade. Our algorithm uses $O(k^3 \log^6 n)$ space and
$\operatorname{poly}(k, \log n)$ update time. This is an exponential
improvement on the space required by the technique due to Babcock, et al. We
introduce a data structure that extends smooth histograms as introduced by
Braverman and Ostrovsky to operate on a broader class of functions. In
particular, we show that using only polylogarithmic space we can maintain a
summary of the current window from which we can construct an $O(1)$-approximate
clustering solution.
  Merge-and-reduce is a generic method in computational geometry for adapting
offline algorithms to the insertion-only streaming model. Several well-known
coreset constructions are maintainable in the insertion-only streaming model
using this method, including well-known coreset techniques for the $k$-median,
$k$-means in both low-and high-dimensional Euclidean spaces. Previous work has
adapted these techniques to the insertion-deletion model, but translating them
to the sliding window model has remained a challenge. We give the first
algorithm that, given an insertion-only streaming coreset construction of space
$s$, maintains a $(1\pm\epsilon)$-approximate coreset in the sliding window
model using $O(s^2\epsilon^{-2}\log n)$ space.
  For clustering problems, our results constitute the first significant step
towards resolving problem number 20 from the List of Open Problems in Sublinear
Algorithms.