Stochastic wind sea is an intermediate small-scale physical process
responsible for the state of the atmospheric boundary layer and the water upper
layer, having dynamics of all scales. To describe behavior of this system, one
could use the mathematical formalization based on a spectral evolution model
for wind waves. To this end, it needs a well-designed numerical model derived
from the principal physical equations. On this way certain theoretical problems
take place. At present some of these problems are solved, that gives
possibility to construct a lot of numerical wind wave models, the latest
version which was proposed in Polnikov(2005). With the aim of assessing real
merits of the new source function proposed in the mentioned paper, the latter
was tested and validated by means of modification the well known model
WAVEWATCH-III. Assessment was done on the basis of comparing the wave
simulation results obtained by both models for a given wind field against the
buoy data gotten in the three oceanic regions. Estimations of simulation
accuracy were obtained for three parameters of wind waves: significant wave
height, Hs, peak wave period, Tp, and mean wave period, Tm. Comparison of these
estimations between the original and modified model WAVEWATCH was fulfilled and
analyzed. Advantage of the modified model was revealed, consisting in an
increase of simulation accuracy for Hs in 1.2-1.5 times for more than 70% of
buoys considered. Additionally, it was found that the speed of calculation was
increased in 15%.