High-order numerical methods for unstructured grids combine the superior
accuracy of high-order spectral or finite difference methods with the geometric
flexibility of low-order finite volume or finite element schemes. The Flux
Reconstruction (FR) approach unifies various high-order schemes for
unstructured grids within a single framework. Additionally, the FR approach
exhibits a significant degree of element locality, and is thus able to run
efficiently on modern streaming architectures, such as Graphical Processing
Units (GPUs). The aforementioned properties of FR mean it offers a promising
route to performing affordable, and hence industrially relevant,
scale-resolving simulations of hitherto intractable unsteady flows within the
vicinity of real-world engineering geometries. In this paper we present PyFR,
an open-source Python based framework for solving advection-diffusion type
problems on streaming architectures using the FR approach. The framework is
designed to solve a range of governing systems on mixed unstructured grids
containing various element types. It is also designed to target a range of
hardware platforms via use of an in-built domain specific language based on the
Mako templating engine. The current release of PyFR is able to solve the
compressible Euler and Navier-Stokes equations on grids of quadrilateral and
triangular elements in two dimensions, and hexahedral elements in three
dimensions, targeting clusters of CPUs, and NVIDIA GPUs. Results are presented
for various benchmark flow problems, single-node performance is discussed, and
scalability of the code is demonstrated on up to 104 NVIDIA M2090 GPUs. The
software is freely available under a 3-Clause New Style BSD license (see
www.pyfr.org).