We investigate a diffusive motion of a system of interacting Brownian
particles in quasi-one-dimensional micropores. In particular, we consider a
semi-infinite 1D geometry with a partially absorbing boundary and the hard-core
inter-particle interaction. Due to the absorbing boundary the number of
particles in the pore gradually decreases. We present the exact analytical
solution of the problem. Our procedure merely requires the knowledge of the
corresponding single-particle problem. First, we calculate the simultaneous
probability density of having still a definite number $N-k$ of surviving
particles at definite coordinates. Focusing on an arbitrary tagged particle, we
derive the exact probability density of its coordinate. Secondly, we present a
complete probabilistic description of the emerging escape process. The survival
probabilities for the individual particles are calculated, the first and the
second moments of the exit times are discussed. Generally speaking, although
the original inter-particle interaction possesses a point-like character, it
induces entropic repulsive forces which, e.g., push the leftmost (rightmost)
particle towards (opposite) the absorbing boundary thereby accelerating
(decelerating) its escape. More importantly, as compared to the reference
problem for the non-interacting particles, the interaction changes the
dynamical exponents which characterize the long-time asymptotic dynamics.
Interesting new insights emerge after we interpret our model in terms of a)
diffusion of a single particle in a $N$-dimensional space, and b) order
statistics defined on a system of $N$ independent, identically distributed
random variables.