We consider the problem of identifying a planted assignment given a random
$k$-SAT formula consistent with the assignment. This problem exhibits a large
algorithmic gap: while the planted solution can always be identified given a
formula with $O(n\log n)$ clauses, there are distributions over clauses for
which the best known efficient algorithms require $n^{k/2}$ clauses. We propose
and study a unified model for planted $k$-SAT, which captures well-known
special cases. An instance is described by a planted assignment and a
distribution on clauses with $k$ literals. We define its distribution
complexity as the largest $r$ for which the distribution is not $r$-wise
independent ($1 \leq r \leq k$ for any distribution with a planted assignment).
  Our main result is an unconditional lower bound, tight up to logarithmic
factors, of $\tilde\Omega(n^{r/2})$ clauses for statistical algorithms,
matching the known upper bound (which, as we show, can be implemented using a
statistical algorithm). Since known approaches for problems over distributions
have statistical analogues (spectral, MCMC, gradient-based, convex optimization
etc.), this lower bound provides a rigorous explanation of the observed
algorithmic gap. The proof introduces a new general technique for the analysis
of statistical algorithms. It also points to a geometric paring phenomenon in
the space of all planted assignments.
  We describe consequences of our lower bounds to Feige's refutation hypothesis
and to lower bounds on general convex programs that solve planted $k$-SAT. Our
bounds also extend to the planted $k$-CSP model, and therefore provide concrete
evidence for the security of Goldreich's one-way function and the associated
pseudorandom generator when used with a sufficiently hard predicate.