We analyze the complex interplay of the strong correlations and impurities in
a high temperature superconductor and show that both the nature and degree of
the inhomogeneities at zero temperature in the local order parameters change
drastically from what are obtained in a simple Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov theory.
While both the strong electronic repulsions and disorder contribute to the
nanoscale inhomogeneity in the population of charge-carriers, we find them to
compete with each other leading to a relatively smooth variation of the local
density. Our self-consistent calculations modify the spatial fluctuations in
the pairing amplitude by suppressing all the double-occupancy within a
Gutzwiller formalism and prohibit the formation of distinct
superconducting-`islands'. In contrast, presence of such `islands' controls the
outcome if strong correlations are neglected. The reorganization of the spatial
structures in the Gutzwiller method makes these superconductors surprisingly
insensitive to the impurities. This is illustrated by a very weak decay of
superfluid stiffness, off-diagonal long range order and local density of states
up to a large disorder strength. Exploring the origin of such a robustness we
conclude that the underlying one-particle normal states reshape in a rich
manner, such that the superconductor formed by pairing these states experiences
a weaker but spatially correlated effective disorder. Such a route to
superconductivity is evocative of Anderson's theorem. Our results capture the
key experimental trends in the cuprates.