Facility location problems are captivating both from theoretical and
practical point of view. In this paper, we study some fundamental facility
location problems from the space-efficient perspective. Here the input is
considered to be given in a read-only memory and only constant amount of
work-space is available during the computation. This {\em constant-work-space
model} is well-motivated for handling big-data as well as for computing in
smart portable devices with small amount of extra-space.
  First, we propose a strategy to implement prune-and-search in this model. As
a warm up, we illustrate this technique for finding the Euclidean 1-center
constrained on a line for a set of points in $\IR^2$. This method works even if
the input is given in a sequential access read-only memory. Using this we show
how to compute (i) the Euclidean 1-center of a set of points in $\IR^2$, and
(ii) the weighted 1-center and weighted 2-center of a tree network. The running
time of all these algorithms are $O(n~poly(\log n))$. While the result of (i)
gives a positive answer to an open question asked by Asano, Mulzer, Rote and
Wang in 2011, the technique used can be applied to other problems which admit
solutions by prune-and-search paradigm. For example, we can apply the technique
to solve two and three dimensional linear programming in $O(n~poly(\log n))$
time in this model. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first
sub-quadratic time algorithms for all the above mentioned problems in the
constant-work-space model. We also present optimal linear time algorithms for
finding the centroid and weighted median of a tree in this model.