Cyclooxygenase-2 is involved in the inflammatory component of the ischemic
cascade, playing an important role in the delayed progression of the brain
damage. The present study evaluated the pharmacological effects of the
selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor nimesulide on delayed neuronal death of
hippocampal CA1 neurons following transient global cerebral ischemia in
gerbils. Administration of therapeutically relevant doses of nimesulide (3, 6
and 12 mg/kg; i.p.) 30 min before ischemia and at 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 h after
ischemia significantly (P<0.01) reduced hippocampal neuronal damage. Treatment
with a single dose of nimesulide given 30 min before ischemia also resulted in
a significant increase in the number of healthy neurons in the hippocampal CA1
sector 7 days after ischemia. Of interest is the finding that nimesulide
rescued CA1 pyramidal neurons from ischemic death even when treatment was
delayed until 24 h after ischemia (34+/-9% protection). Neuroprotective effect
of nimesulide is still evident 30 days after the ischemic episode, providing
the first experimental evidence that cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors confer a
long-lasting neuroprotection. Oral administration of nimesulide was also able
to significantly reduce brain damage, suggesting that protective effects are
independent of the route of administration. The present study confirms the
ability of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors to reduce brain damage induced by
cerebral ischemia and indicates that nimesulide can provide protection when
administered for up to 24 h post-ischemia.