This work studies the recursive robust principal components' analysis (PCA)
problem. Here, "robust" refers to robustness to both independent and correlated
sparse outliers, although we focus on the latter. A key application where this
problem occurs is in video surveillance where the goal is to separate a slowly
changing background from moving foreground objects on-the-fly. The background
sequence is well modeled as lying in a low dimensional subspace, that can
gradually change over time, while the moving foreground objects constitute the
correlated sparse outliers. In this and many other applications, the foreground
is an outlier for PCA but is actually the "signal of interest" for the
application; where as the background is the corruption or noise. Thus our
problem can also be interpreted as one of recursively recovering a time
sequence of sparse signals in the presence of large but spatially correlated
noise.
  This work has two key contributions. First, we provide a new way of looking
at this problem and show how a key part of our solution strategy involves
solving a noisy compressive sensing (CS) problem. Second, we show how we can
utilize the correlation of the outliers to our advantage in order to even deal
with very large support sized outliers. The main idea is as follows. The
correlation model applied to the previous support estimate helps predict the
current support. This prediction serves as "partial support knowledge" for
solving the modified-CS problem instead of CS. The support estimate of the
modified-CS reconstruction is, in turn, used to update the correlation model
parameters using a Kalman filter (or any adaptive filter). We call the
resulting approach "support-predicted modified-CS".