Holographic algorithms were first introduced by Valiant as a new methodology
to derive polynomial time algorithms. The algorithms introduced by Valiant are
based on matchgates, which are intrinsically for problems over planar
structures. In this paper we introduce two new families of holographic
algorithms. These algorithms work over general, i.e., not necessarily planar,
graphs. Instead of matchgates, the two underlying families of constraint
functions are of the affine type and of the product type. These play the role
of Kasteleyn's algorithm for counting planar perfect matchings. The new
algorithms are obtained by transforming a problem to one of these two families
by holographic reductions.
  The tractability of affine and product type constraint functions is known.
The real challenge is to determine when some concrete problem, expressed by its
constraint functions, has such a holographic reduction. We present a polynomial
time algorithm to decide if a given counting problem has a holographic
algorithm using the affine or product type constraint functions. Our algorithm
also finds a holographic transformation when one exists. We exhibit concrete
problems that can be solved by the new holographic algorithms. When the
constraint functions are symmetric, we further present a polynomial time
algorithm for the same decision and search problems, where the complexity is
measured in terms of the (exponentially more) succinct presentation of
symmetric constraint functions. The algorithm for the symmetric case also shows
that the recent dichotomy theorem for Holant problems with symmetric
constraints is efficiently decidable. Our proof techniques are mainly
algebraic, e.g., stabilizers and orbits of group actions.