Consider a weighted graph G where vertices are points in the plane and edges
are line segments. The weight of each edge is the Euclidean distance between
its two endpoints. A routing algorithm on G has a competitive ratio of c if the
length of the path produced by the algorithm from any vertex s to any vertex t
is at most c times the length of the shortest path from s to t in G. If the
length of the path is at most c times the Euclidean distance from s to t, we
say that the routing algorithm on G has a routing ratio of c.We present an
online routing algorithm on the Delaunay triangulation with competitive and
routing ratios of 5.90. This improves upon the best known algorithm that has
competitive and routing ratio 15.48. The algorithm is a generalization of the
deterministic 1-local routing algorithm by Chew on the L1-Delaunay
triangulation. When a message follows the routing path produced by our
algorithm, its header need only contain the coordinates of s and t. This is an
improvement over the currently known competitive routing algorithms on the
Delaunay triangulation, for which the header of a message must additionally
contain partial sums of distances along the routing path.We also show that the
routing ratio of any deterministic k-local algorithm is at least 1.70 for the
Delaunay triangulation and 2.70 for the L1-Delaunay triangulation. In the case
of the L1-Delaunay triangulation, this implies that even though there exists a
path between two points x and y whose length is at most 2.61|[xy]| (where
|[xy]| denotes the length of the line segment [xy]), it is not always possible
to route a message along a path of length less than 2.70|[xy]|. From these
bounds on the routing ratio, we derive lower bounds on the competitive ratio of
1.23 for Delaunay triangulations and 1.12 for L1-Delaunay triangulations.