Considered in this paper the Maxwell-Bloch (MB) equations became known after
Lamb [1-4]. In [5] Ablowitz, Kaup and Newell proposed the inverse scattering
transform (IST) to the Maxwell-Bloch equations for studying a physical
phenomenon known as the self-induced transparency. A description of general
solutions to the MB equations and their classification was done in [6] by
Gabitov, Zakharov and Mikhailov. In particular, they gave an approximate
solution of the mixed problem to the MB equations in the domain
$x,t\in(0,L)\times (0,\infty)$ and, on this bases, a description of the
phenomenon of superfluorescence. It was emphasized in [6] that the IST method
is non-adopted for the mixed problem. Authors of the mentioned papers have
developed the IST method in the form of the Marchenko integral equations. We
propose another approach for solving the mixed problem to the MB equations in
the quarter plane. We use matrix Riemann-Hilbert (RH) problems and simultaneous
spectral analysis of the both Lax operators. First, we introduce appropriate
compatible solutions of the corresponding Ablowitz-Kaup-Newell-Segur (AKNS)
equations and then we suggest such a matrix RH problem which corresponds to the
mixed problem for MB equations. Second, we generalize this matrix RH problem,
prove a unique solvability of the new RH problem and show that the RH problem
(after a specialization of jump matrix) generates the MB equations. As a result
we obtain solutions defined on the whole line and studied in [5] and [6],
solutions to the mixed problem studied below in this paper and solutions with a
periodic (finite-gap) boundary conditions. The kind of solution is defined by
the specialization of conjugation contour and jump matrix.