We consider statistical as well as algorithmic aspects of solving large-scale
least-squares (LS) problems using randomized sketching algorithms. For a LS
problem with input data $(X, Y) \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times p} \times
\mathbb{R}^n$, sketching algorithms use a sketching matrix, $S\in\mathbb{R}^{r
\times n}$ with $r \ll n$. Then, rather than solving the LS problem using the
full data $(X,Y)$, sketching algorithms solve the LS problem using only the
sketched data $(SX, SY)$. Prior work has typically adopted an algorithmic
perspective, in that it has made no statistical assumptions on the input $X$
and $Y$, and instead it has been assumed that the data $(X,Y)$ are fixed and
worst-case (WC). Prior results show that, when using sketching matrices such as
random projections and leverage-score sampling algorithms, with $p < r \ll n$,
the WC error is the same as solving the original problem, up to a small
constant. From a statistical perspective, we typically consider the
mean-squared error performance of randomized sketching algorithms, when data
$(X, Y)$ are generated according to a statistical model $Y = X \beta +
\epsilon$, where $\epsilon$ is a noise process. We provide a rigorous
comparison of both perspectives leading to insights on how they differ. To do
this, we first develop a framework for assessing algorithmic and statistical
aspects of randomized sketching methods. We then consider the statistical
prediction efficiency (PE) and the statistical residual efficiency (RE) of the
sketched LS estimator; and we use our framework to provide upper bounds for
several types of random projection and random sampling sketching algorithms.
Among other results, we show that the RE can be upper bounded when $p < r \ll
n$ while the PE typically requires the sample size $r$ to be substantially
larger. Lower bounds developed in subsequent results show that our upper bounds
on PE can not be improved.