We investigate the anti-correlation between faint high redshift QSOs and low
redshift galaxy groups found by Boyle, Fong & Shanks (1988), on the assumption
that it is caused by gravitational lensing of a flat QSO number count, rather
than any other systematic effect (e.g dust). An isothermal sphere lens model,
requires a velocity dispersion of 1286+72-91 km/s. Addition of a constant
density plane reduces this to 1143+109-153 km/s, while the plane density is
0.081+-0.032h g/cm**2. Both these values are considerably larger than the
400-600km/s expected for poor clusters and groups and imply that the mass
associated with such groups is ~4 times larger than inferred from virial
analyses. If due to lensing, this measurement clearly tends to favour high
values of Omega_0. We demonstrate how an estimate of Omega_0 may be obtained,
finding Omega_0=1.3(n/3x10^-4h^3Mpc^-3)(r/1Mpc)(sigma/1286km/s)^2. Systematic
uncertainties in r, the extent of the anti-correlation, and n, the group space
density, currently dominate this determination, but this will be a route to
estimating Omega_0 in improved galaxy-QSO datasets where systematics can be
better controlled. We compared our result to that of Williams & Irwin (1998)
who find a positive correlation between bright LBQS QSOs and APM galaxies.
Adapting the analysis of Williams & Irwin to our use of galaxy groups, we find
agreement between the amplitude of the positive cross-correlation found for
bright QSOs and the negative cross-correlation found for faint QSOs. This
analysis leads to a common estimate of Omega_0*sigma_8~3-4. This, however, is
significantly higher than indicated from several other analyses. Further tests
of the accuracy of galaxy-QSO cross-correlations and their implications for
Omega_0 and sigma_8 will soon be available from the new 2dF QSO catalogue.