The $^8$B solar neutrino flux as measured by Super-Kamiokande is consistent
with the $^{37}$Ar production rate in $^{37}$Cl at Homestake. GALLEX and SAGE,
continue to observe $^{71}$Ge production rates in $^{71}$Ga that are consistent
with the minimal signal expected from the solar luminosity. The observed $^8$B
solar neutrino flux is in good agreement with that predicted by the standard
solar model of Dar and Shaviv with nuclear reaction rates that are supported by
recent measurements of nuclear fusion cross sections at low energies. The
measurements of Super-Kamiokande, SAGE and GALLEX suggest that the expected the
pep, $^7$Be and NO solar neutrino fluxes are strongly suppressed. This can be
explained by neutrino oscillations and the Mikheyev-Smirnov-Wolfenstein effect.
Since neither a flavor change, nor a terrestrial variation, nor a spectral
distortion of the $^8$B solar neutrino flux has been observed yet, the solar
neutrino problem does not provide conclusive evidence for neutrino properties
beyond the standard electroweak model. The deviations of the experimental
results from those predicted by the standard solar models may reflect the
approximate nature of of solar models and of our knowledge of nuclear reaction
rates, radiation transport and particle diffusion in dense stellar plasmas.
Only future observations of spectral distortions, or terrestrial modulation or
flavor change of solar neutrinos in solar neutrino experiments, such as
Super-Kamiokande, SNO, Borexino and HELLAZ will be able to establish that
neutrino properties beyond the minimal standard electroweak model are
responsible for the solar neutrino problem.