In this paper we give new results on domain decomposition preconditioners for
GMRES when computing piecewise-linear finite-element approximations of the
Helmholtz equation $-\Delta u - (k^2+ \rm{i} \varepsilon)u = f$, with
absorption parameter $\varepsilon \in \mathbb{R}$. Multigrid approximations of
this equation with $\varepsilon \not = 0$ are commonly used as preconditioners
for the pure Helmholtz case ($\varepsilon = 0$). However a rigorous theory for
such (so-called "shifted Laplace") preconditioners, either for the pure
Helmholtz equation or even the damped equation, is still missing. We present a
new theory for the damped equation that provides rates of convergence for
(left- or right-) preconditioned GMRES, via estimates of the norm and field of
values of the preconditioned matrix. This theory uses a $k$- and
$\varepsilon$-explicit coercivity result for the underlying sesquilinear form
and shows, for example, that if $|\varepsilon|\sim k^2$, then classical
overlapping additive Schwarz will perform optimally for the damped problem,
provided the coarse mesh diameter is carefully chosen. Extensive numerical
experiments illustrate the theory and also give insight into how domain
decomposition approximations of the damped problem perform as preconditioners
for the pure Helmholtz case. While the theory applies to a certain weighted
variant of GMRES, the experiments for both weighted and classical GMRES give
comparable results. At the end of the paper we propose a (scalable) multilevel
preconditioner for the pure Helmholtz problem that has an empirical complexity
of about $\mathcal{O}(n^{4/3})$ for solving finite element systems of size
$n=\mathcal{O}(k^3)$, where we have chosen the mesh diameter $h \sim k^{-3/2}$
to avoid the pollution effect. Experiments on problems with $h\sim k^{-1}$,
i.e. a fixed number of grid points per wavelength, are also given.