Crossing point phenomena are one of the interesting and still puzzling
effects in strongly correlated electron systems. We have synthesized
RuSr2Gd1.4Ce0.6Cu2O10-{\delta} (GdRu-1222) magneto-superconductor through
standard solid state reaction route and measured its magnetic, transport and
thermal properties. We also synthesized RuSr2Eu1.4Ce0.6Cu2O10-{\delta}
(EuRu-1222) then measured its heat capacity in zero magnetic fields for
reference. The studied compounds crystallized in tetragonal structure with
space group I4/mmm. GdRu-1222 is a reported magneto-superconductor with Ru
spins magnetic ordering at temperature around 110 K and superconductivity in
Cu-O2 planes below around 40 K. To explore the crossing point phenomena, the
specific heat [Cp (T)] was investigated in temperature range 1.9-250 K, under
magnetic field of up to 70 kOe. Unfortunately though no magnetic and
superconducting transitions are observed in specific heat, a Schottky type
anomaly is observed at low temperatures below 20 K. This low temperature
Schottky type anomaly can be attributed to splitting of the ground state
spectroscopic term 8S7/2 of paramagnetic Gd3+ ions by both internal and
external magnetic fields. It was also observed that Cp (T) being measured for
different values of magnetic field, possesses the same crossing point (T* = 2.7
K), up to the applied magnetic field 70 kOe. A quantitative explanation of this
phenomenon, based on its shape and temperature dependence of the associated
generalized heat capacity (Cp), is presented. This effect supports the crossing
point phenomena, which is supposed to be inherent for strongly correlated
systems.