Classical problems of sorting and searching assume an underlying linear
ordering of the objects being compared. In this paper, we study a more general
setting, in which some pairs of objects are incomparable. This generalization
is relevant in applications related to rankings in sports, college admissions,
or conference submissions. It also has potential applications in biology, such
as comparing the evolutionary fitness of different strains of bacteria, or
understanding input-output relations among a set of metabolic reactions or the
causal influences among a set of interacting genes or proteins. Our results
improve and extend results from two decades ago of Faigle and Tur\'{a}n.
  A measure of complexity of a partially ordered set (poset) is its width. Our
algorithms obtain information about a poset by queries that compare two
elements. We present an algorithm that sorts, i.e. completely identifies, a
width w poset of size n and has query complexity O(wn + nlog(n)), which is
within a constant factor of the information-theoretic lower bound. We also show
that a variant of Mergesort has query complexity O(wn(log(n/w))) and total
complexity O((w^2)nlog(n/w)). Faigle and Tur\'{a}n have shown that the sorting
problem has query complexity O(wn(log(n/w))) but did not address its total
complexity.
  For the related problem of determining the minimal elements of a poset, we
give efficient deterministic and randomized algorithms with O(wn) query and
total complexity, along with matching lower bounds for the query complexity up
to a factor of 2. We generalize these results to the k-selection problem of
determining the elements of height at most k. We also derive upper bounds on
the total complexity of some other problems of a similar flavor.