The \emph{Chow parameters} of a Boolean function $f: \{-1,1\}^n \to \{-1,1\}$
are its $n+1$ degree-0 and degree-1 Fourier coefficients. It has been known
since 1961 (Chow, Tannenbaum) that the (exact values of the) Chow parameters of
any linear threshold function $f$ uniquely specify $f$ within the space of all
Boolean functions, but until recently (O'Donnell and Servedio) nothing was
known about efficient algorithms for \emph{reconstructing} $f$ (exactly or
approximately) from exact or approximate values of its Chow parameters. We
refer to this reconstruction problem as the \emph{Chow Parameters Problem.}
  Our main result is a new algorithm for the Chow Parameters Problem which,
given (sufficiently accurate approximations to) the Chow parameters of any
linear threshold function $f$, runs in time $\tilde{O}(n^2)\cdot
(1/\eps)^{O(\log^2(1/\eps))}$ and with high probability outputs a
representation of an LTF $f'$ that is $\eps$-close to $f$. The only previous
algorithm (O'Donnell and Servedio) had running time $\poly(n) \cdot
2^{2^{\tilde{O}(1/\eps^2)}}.$
  As a byproduct of our approach, we show that for any linear threshold
function $f$ over $\{-1,1\}^n$, there is a linear threshold function $f'$ which
is $\eps$-close to $f$ and has all weights that are integers at most $\sqrt{n}
\cdot (1/\eps)^{O(\log^2(1/\eps))}$. This significantly improves the best
previous result of Diakonikolas and Servedio which gave a $\poly(n) \cdot
2^{\tilde{O}(1/\eps^{2/3})}$ weight bound, and is close to the known lower
bound of $\max\{\sqrt{n},$ $(1/\eps)^{\Omega(\log \log (1/\eps))}\}$ (Goldberg,
Servedio). Our techniques also yield improved algorithms for related problems
in learning theory.