This paper proposes a fully decentralized peer-to-peer overlay structure
GeoP2P, to facilitate geographic location based search and retrieval of
information. Certain limitations of centralized geographic indexes favor
peer-to-peer organization of the information, which, in addition to avoiding
performance bottleneck, allows autonomy over local information. Peer-to-peer
systems for geographic or multidimensional range queries built on existing DHTs
suffer from the inaccuracy in linearization of the multidimensional space.
Other overlay structures that are based on hierarchical partitioning of the
search space are not scalable because they use special super-peers to represent
the nodes in the hierarchy. GeoP2P partitions the search space hierarchically,
maintains the overlay structure and performs the routing without the need of
any super-peers. Although similar fully-decentralized overlays have been
previously proposed, they lack the ability to dynamically grow and retract the
partition hierarchy when the number of peers change. GeoP2P provides such
adaptive features with minimum perturbation of the system state. Such
adaptation makes both the routing delay and the state size of each peer
logarithmic to the total number of peers, irrespective of the size of the
multidimensional space. Our analysis also reveals that the overlay structure
and the routing algorithm are generic and independent of several aspects of the
partitioning hierarchy, such as the geometric shape of the zones or the
dimensionality of the search space.