In this paper, we explicitly study the online vertex cover problem, which is
a natural generalization of the well-studied ski-rental problem. In the online
vertex cover problem, we are required to maintain a monotone vertex cover in a
graph whose vertices arrive online. When a vertex arrives, all its incident
edges to previously arrived vertices are revealed to the algorithm. For
bipartite graphs with the left vertices offline (i.e. all of the left vertices
arrive first before any right vertex), there are algorithms achieving the
optimal competitive ratio of $\frac{1}{1-1/e}\approx 1.582$.
  Our first result is a new optimal water-filling algorithm for this case. One
major ingredient of our result is a new charging-based analysis, which can be
generalized to attack the online fractional vertex cover problem in general
graphs. The main contribution of this paper is a 1.901-competitive algorithm
for this problem. When the underlying graph is bipartite, our fractional
solution can be rounded to an integral solution. In other words, we can obtain
a vertex cover with expected size at most 1.901 of the optimal vertex cover in
bipartite graphs.
  The next major result is a primal-dual analysis of our algorithm for the
online fractional vertex cover problem in general graphs, which implies the
dual result of a 0.526-competitive algorithm for online fractional matching in
general graphs. Notice that both problems admit a well-known 2-competitive
greedy algorithm. Our result in this paper is the first successful attempt to
beat the greedy algorithm for these two problems.
  On the hardness side, we show that no randomized online algorithm can achieve
a competitive ratio better than 1.753 and 0.625 for the online fractional
vertex cover problem and the online fractional matching problem respectively,
even for bipartite graphs.