In this paper, we show algorithms for solving the cake-cutting problem in
sublinear-time. More specifically, we preassign (simple) fair portions to o(n)
players in o(n)-time, and minimize the damage to the rest of the players. All
currently known algorithms require Omega(n)-time, even when assigning a portion
to just one player, and it is nontrivial to revise these algorithms to run in
$o(n)$-time since many of the remaining players, who have not been asked any
queries, may not be satisfied with the remaining cake. To challenge this
problem, we begin by providing a framework for solving the cake-cutting problem
in sublinear-time. Generally speaking, solving a problem in sublinear-time
requires the use of approximations. However, in our framework, we introduce the
concept of "eps n-victims," which means that eps n players (victims) may not
get fair portions, where 0< eps =< 1 is an arbitrary constant. In our
framework, an algorithm consists of the following two parts: In the first
(Preassigning) part, it distributes fair portions to r < n players in
o(n)-time. In the second (Completion) part, it distributes fair portions to the
remaining n-r players except for the eps n victims in poly}(n)-time. There are
two variations on the r players in the first part. Specifically, whether they
can or cannot be designated. We will then present algorithms in this framework.
In particular, an O(r/eps)-time algorithm for r =< eps n/127 undesignated
players with eps n-victims, and an O~(r^2/eps)-time algorithm for r =< eps
e^{{sqrt{ln{n}}}/{7}} designated players and eps =< 1/e with eps n-victims are
presented.