It is proved that the Newton-Sabatier (NS) procedure does not solve the
inverse scattering problem with fixed-energy data and is not a valid inversion
method, in the following sense: 1) the basic integral equation, introduced by
R. Newton without derivation, in general, may be not solvable for some $r>0$,
and in this case NS procedure breaks down: it produces a potential which is not
locally integrable. 2) the ansatz $(\ast)$ $K(r,s) = \sum^\infty_{l=0} c_l
\phi_l (r) u_l (s)$, used by R. Newton, is incorrect: the transformation
operator $I-K$, corresponding to a generic does not have $K$ of the form
$(\ast),$ and 3) the set of potentials $q \in L_{1,1},$ that can possibly be
obtained by NS procedure, is not dense in the set of all $L_{1,1}$ potentials
in the norm of $L_{1,1}$. Therefore one cannot justify NS procedure even for
approximate solution of the inverse scattering problem with fixed-energy phase
shifts as data. Thus, the NS procedure, if considered as a method for solving
the inverse scattering problem, is based on an incorrect ansatz, the basic
integral equation of NS procedure is, in general, not solvable for some $r>0$,
and in this case this procedure breaks down, and NS procedure is not an
inversion theory: it cannot recover generic potentials $q \in L_{1,1}$ from
their fixed-energy phase shifts. Suppose now that one considers another
problem: given fixed-energy phase shifts, corresponding to some potential, find
a potential which generates the same phase shifts. Then NS procedure does not
solve this problem either: the basic integral equation, in general, may be not
solvable for some $r>0$, and then NS procedure breaks down.