The goal of a denoising algorithm is to reconstruct a signal from its
noise-corrupted observations. Perfect reconstruction is seldom possible and
performance is measured under a given fidelity criterion. In a recent work, the
contributors addressed the problem of denoising unknown discrete signals corrupted
by a discrete memoryless channel when the channel, rather than being completely
known, is only known to lie in some uncertainty set of possible channels. A
sequence of denoisers was derived for this case and shown to be asymptotically
optimal with respect to a worst-case criterion argued most relevant to this
setting. In the present work we address the implementation and complexity of
this denoiser for channels parametrized by a scalar, establishing its
practicality. We show that for symmetric channels, the problem can be mapped
into a convex optimization problem, which can be solved efficiently. We also
present empirical results suggesting the potential of these schemes to do well
in practice. A key component of our schemes is an estimator of the subset of
channels in the uncertainty set that are feasible in the sense of being able to
give rise to the noise-corrupted signal statistics for some channel input
distribution. We establish the efficiency of this estimator, both
algorithmically and experimentally. We also present a modification of the
recently developed discrete universal denoiser (DUDE) that assumes a channel
based on the said estimator, and show that, in practice, the resulting scheme
performs well. For concreteness, we focus on the binary alphabet case and
binary symmetric channels, but also discuss the extensions of the algorithms to
general finite alphabets and to general channels parameterized by a scalar.