Dual-sourcing inventory systems, in which one supplier is faster (i.e.
express) and more costly, while the other is slower (i.e. regular) and cheaper,
arise naturally in many real-world supply chains. However, these systems are
notoriously difficult to optimize. Indeed, as succinctly described in
\citet{Veeraraghavan08} (and reiterated in \citet{Hua14}), \\ \indent\emph{"The
dual-sourcing decision under general lead times has been a challenging problem
for over 40 years, despite its frequency in practice."}\\ Recently, so-called
Tailored Base-Surge (TBS) policies have been proposed as a heuristic for the
dual-sourcing problem, and analyzed in \citet{Allon10} and
\citet{Janakiraman14a}. Under such a policy, a constant order is placed at the
regular source in each period, while the order placed at the express source
follows a simple order-up-to rule. Numerical experiments by several contributors
have suggested that such policies perform well as the lead time difference
between the two sources grows large, which is exactly the setting in which the
curse of dimensionality leads to the problem becoming intractable. However,
providing a theoretical foundation for this phenomenon has remained a major
open problem. In this paper, we provide such a theoretical foundation by
proving that a simple TBS policy is indeed asymptotically optimal as the lead
time of the regular source grows large, with the lead time of the express
source held fixed. Our main proof technique combines a steady-state approach,
novel convexity and lower-bounding arguments, a certain interchange of limits
result, and ideas from the theory of random walks and queues, significantly
extending the methodology and applicability of a novel framework for analyzing
inventory models with large lead times recently introduced in
\citet{Goldberg12} and \citet{Xin14a} in the context of lost-sales models with
positive lead times.