(abridged) This comment is intended to show that simulations by Smith et al.
(S12) support the Dark Star (DS) scenario and even remove some potential
obstacles. Our previous work illustrated that the initial hydrogen densities of
the first equilibrium DSs are high, ~10^{17}/cm^3 for the case of 100 GeV
WIMPs, with a stellar radius of ~2-3 AU. Subsequent contributors have somehow missed
the fact that equilibrium DSs have the high densities they do. S12 have
numerically simulated the effect of dark matter annihilation on the contraction
of a protostellar gas cloud en route to forming the first stars. They show
results at a density ~5 10^{14}/cm^3, slightly higher than the value at which
annihilation heating prevails over cooling. However, they are apparently unable
to reach the ~10^{17}/cm^3 density of our hydrostatic DS solutions. We are in
complete agreement with their physical result that the gas keeps collapsing to
densities > 5 10^{14}/cm^3, as it must before equilibrium DSs can form. However
we are in disagreement with some of the words in their paper which imply that
DSs never come to exist. It seems to us that S12 supports the DS scenario. They
use the sink particle approach to treat the gas that collapses to scales
smaller than their resolution limit. We argue that their sink is effectively a
DS, or contains one. An accretion disk forms as more mass falls onto the sink,
and the DS grows. S12 not only confirm our predictions about DS in the range
where the simulations apply, but also solve a potential obstruction to DS
formation by showing that dark matter annihilation prevents the fragmentation
of the collapsing gas. Whereas fragmentation might perturb the dark matter away
from the DS and remove its power source, instead S12 show that further sinks,
if any, form only far enough away as to leave the DS undisturbed in the comfort
of its dark matter surroundings.