In this paper, we develop a novel blind source separation (BSS) method for
nonnegative and correlated data, particularly for the nearly degenerate data.
The motivation lies in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, where a
multiple mixture NMR spectra are recorded to identify chemical compounds with
similar structures (degeneracy).
  There have been a number of successful approaches for solving BSS problems by
exploiting the nature of source signals. For instance, independent component
analysis (ICA) is used to separate statistically independent (orthogonal)
source signals. However, signal orthogonality is not guaranteed in many
real-world problems. This new BSS method developed here deals with
nonorthogonal signals. The independence assumption is replaced by a condition
which requires dominant interval(s) (DI) from each of source signals over
others. Additionally, the mixing matrix is assumed to be nearly singular. The
method first estimates the mixing matrix by exploiting geometry in data
clustering. Due to the degeneracy of the data, a small deviation in the
estimation may introduce errors (spurious peaks of negative values in most
cases) in the output. To resolve this challenging problem and improve
robustness of the separation, methods are developed in two aspects. One
technique is to find a better estimation of the mixing matrix by allowing a
constrained perturbation to the clustering output, and it can be achieved by a
quadratic programming. The other is to seek sparse source signals by exploiting
the DI condition, and it solves an $\ell_1$ optimization. We present numerical
results of NMR data to show the performance and reliability of the method in
the applications arising in NMR spectroscopy.