The present paper considers a problem of estimating a linear functional
$\Phi=\int_{-\infty}^\infty \varphi(x) f(x)dx$ of an unknown deconvolution
density $f$ on the basis of i.i.d. observations $Y_i = \theta_i + \xi_i$ where
$\xi_i$ has a known pdf $g$ and $f$ is the pdf of $\theta_i$. Although various
aspects and particular cases of this problem have been treated by a number of
contributors, there are still many gaps. In particular, there are no minimax lower
bounds for an estimator of $\Phi$ for an arbitrary function $\varphi$. The
general upper risk bounds cover only the case when the Fourier transform of
$\varphi$ exists. Moreover, no theory exists for estimating $\Phi$ when vector
of observations is sparse. In addition, until now, the related problem of
estimation of functionals $\Phi_n = n^{-1} \sum_{i=1}^n \varphi(\theta_i)$ in
indirect observations have been treated as a separate problem with no
connection to estimation of $\Phi$. The objective of the present paper is to
fill in the gaps and develop the general minimax theory of estimation of $\Phi$
and $\Phi_n$. We offer a general approach to estimation of $\Phi$ (and
$\Phi_n$) and provide the upper and the minimax lower risk bounds in the case
when function $\varphi$ is square integrable. Furthermore, we extend the theory
to the case when Fourier transform of $\varphi$ does not exist and $\Phi$ can
be presented as a linear functional of the Fourier transform of $f$ and its
derivatives. Finally, we generalize our results to handle the situation when
vector $\theta$ is sparse. As a direct application of the proposed theory, we
obtain multiple new results and automatically recover existing ones for a
variety of problems such as estimation of the $(2M+1)$-th absolute moment or a
generalized moment of the deconvolution density, estimation of the mixing cdf
or estimation of the mixing pdf with classical and Berkson errors.