Quantum thermal transport in armchair and zig-zag graphene nanoribbons are
investigated in the presence of single atomic vacancies and subject to
different boundary conditions. We start with a full comparison of the phonon
polarizations and energy dispersions as given by a fifth-nearest-neighbor
force-constant model (5NNFCM) and by elasticity theory of continuum membranes
(ETCM). For free-edges ribbons we discuss the behavior of an additional
acoustic edge-localized flexural mode, known as fourth acoustic branch (4ZA),
which has a small gap when it is obtained by the 5NNFCM. Then, we show that
ribbons with supported-edges have a sample-size dependent energy gap in the
phonon spectrum which is particularly large for in-plane modes. Irrespective to
the calculation method and the boundary condition, the dependence of the energy
gap for the low-energy optical phonon modes against the ribbon width W is found
to be proportional to 1/W for in-plane, and 1/W$^2$ for out-of-plane phonon
modes. Using the 5NNFCM, the ballistic thermal conductance and its
contributions from every single phonon mode are then obtained by the non
equilibrium Green's function technique. We found that, while edge and central
localized single atomic vacancies do not affect the low-energy transmission
function of in-plane phonon modes, they reduce considerably the contributions
of the flexural modes. On the other hand, in-plane modes contributions are
strongly dependent on the boundary conditions and at low temperatures can be
highly reduced in supported-edges samples. These findings could open a route to
engineer graphene based devices where it is possible to discriminate the
relative contribution of polarized phonons and to tune the thermal transport on
the nanoscale.