The problem of mixed signals occurs in many different contexts; one of the
most familiar being acoustics. The forward problem in acoustics consists of
finding the sound pressure levels at various detectors resulting from sound
signals emanating from the active acoustic sources. The inverse problem
consists of using the sound recorded by the detectors to separate the signals
and recover the original source waveforms. In general, the inverse problem is
unsolvable without additional information. This general problem is called
source separation, and several techniques have been developed that utilize
maximum entropy, minimum mutual information, and maximum likelihood. In
previous work, it has been demonstrated that these techniques can be recast in
a Bayesian framework. This paper demonstrates the power of the Bayesian
approach, which provides a natural means for incorporating prior information
into a source model. An algorithm is developed that utilizes information
regarding both the statistics of the amplitudes of the signals emitted by the
sources and the relative locations of the detectors. Using this prior
information, the algorithm finds the most probable source behavior and
configuration. Thus, the inverse problem can be solved by simultaneously
performing source separation and localization. It should be noted that this
algorithm is not designed to account for delay times that are often important
in acoustic source separation. However, a possible application of this
algorithm is in the separation of electrophysiological signals obtained using
electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG).