During the last decade, the matroid secretary problem (MSP) became one of the
most prominent classes of online selection problems. Partially linked to its
numerous applications in mechanism design, substantial interest arose also in
the study of nonlinear versions of MSP, with a focus on the submodular matroid
secretary problem (SMSP). So far, O(1)-competitive algorithms have been
obtained for SMSP over some basic matroid classes. This created some hope that,
analogously to the matroid secretary conjecture, one may even obtain
O(1)-competitive algorithms for SMSP over any matroid. However, up to now, most
questions related to SMSP remained open, including whether SMSP may be
substantially more difficult than MSP; and more generally, to what extend MSP
and SMSP are related.
  Our goal is to address these points by presenting general black-box
reductions from SMSP to MSP. In particular, we show that any O(1)-competitive
algorithm for MSP, even restricted to a particular matroid class, can be
transformed in a black-box way to an O(1)-competitive algorithm for SMSP over
the same matroid class. This implies that the matroid secretary conjecture is
equivalent to the same conjecture for SMSP. Hence, in this sense SMSP is not
harder than MSP. Also, to find O(1)-competitive algorithms for SMSP over a
particular matroid class, it suffices to consider MSP over the same matroid
class. Using our reductions we obtain many first and improved O(1)-competitive
algorithms for SMSP over various matroid classes by leveraging known algorithms
for MSP. Moreover, our reductions imply an O(loglog(rank))-competitive
algorithm for SMSP, thus, matching the currently best asymptotic algorithm for
MSP, and substantially improving on the previously best
O(log(rank))-competitive algorithm for SMSP.