We present a study of small carbon chains and rings in Photon Dominated
Regions (PDRs) performed at millimetre wavelengths. Our sample consists of the
Horsehead nebula (B33), the rho,Oph L1688 cloud interface, and the
cometary-shaped cloud IC63. Using the IRAM 30-m telescope, the SEST and the
Effelsberg 100-m teles cope at Effelsberg., we mapped the emission of \cch,
c-C3H2 and C4H, and searched for heavy hydrocarbons such as c-C3H, l-C3H,
l-C3H2, l-C4H2 and C6H. The large scale maps show that small hydrocarbons are
present until the edge of all PDRs, which is surprising as they are expected to
be easily destroyed by UV radiation. Their spatial distribution reasonably
agrees with the aromatic emission mapped in mid-IR wavelength bands. Their
abundances relative to H2 are relatively high and comparable to the ones
derived in dark clouds such as L134N or TMC-1, known as efficient carbon
factories. In particular, we report the first detection of C6H in a PDR. We
have run steady-state PDR models using several gas-phase chemical networks
(UMIST95 and the New Standard Model) and conclude that both networks fail in
reproducing the high abundances of some of these hydrocarbons by an order of
magnitude. The high abundance of hydrocarbons in the PDR may suggest that the
photo-erosion of UV-irradiated large carbonaceous compounds could efficiently
feed the ISM with small carbon clusters or molecules. This new production
mechanism of carbon chains and rings could overcome their destruction by the UV
radiation field. Dedicated theoretical and laboratory measurements are required
in order to understand and implement these additional chemical routes.