Spatially averaged inhomogeneous cosmologies in classical general relativity
can be written in the form of effective Friedmann equations with sources that
include backreaction terms. In this paper we propose to describe these
backreaction terms with the help of a homogeneous scalar field evolving in a
potential; we call it the `morphon field'. This new field links classical
inhomogeneous cosmologies to scalar field cosmologies, allowing to reinterpret,
e.g., quintessence scenarios by routing the physical origin of the scalar field
source to inhomogeneities in the Universe. We investigate a one-parameter
family of scaling solutions to the backreaction problem. Subcases of these
solutions (all without an assumed cosmological constant) include
scale-dependent models with Friedmannian kinematics that can mimic the presence
of a cosmological constant or a time-dependent cosmological term. We explicitly
reconstruct the scalar field potential for the scaling solutions, and discuss
those cases that provide a solution to the Dark Energy and coincidence
problems. In this approach, Dark Energy emerges from morphon fields, a
mechanism that can be understood through the proposed correspondence: the
averaged cosmology is characterized by a weak decay (quintessence) or growth
(phantom quintessence) of kinematical fluctuations, fed by `curvature energy'
that is stored in the averaged 3-Ricci curvature. We find that the late-time
trajectories of those models approach attractors that lie in the future of a
state that is predicted by observational constraints.