Exoplanets are typically thought to form in protoplanetary disks left over
from protostellar disk of their newly formed host star. However, additional
planetary formation and evolution routes may exist in old evolved binary
systems. Here we discuss the implications of binary stellar evolution on
planetary systems. In these binary systems stellar evolution could lead to the
formation of symbiotic stars, where mass is lost from one star and could be
transferred to its binary companion, and may form an accretion disk around it.
This raises the possibility that such a disk could provide the necessary
environment for the formation of a new, second generation of planets in both
circumstellar or circumbinary configurations. Pre-existing first generation
planets surviving the post-MS evolution of such systems would be dynamically
effected by the mass loss in the systems and may also interact with the newly
formed disk. Second generation planetary systems should be typically found in
white dwarf binary systems, and may show various observational signatures. Most
notably, second generation planets could form in environment which are
inaccessible, or less favorable, for first generation planets. The orbital
phase space available for the second generation planets could be forbidden (in
terms of the system stability) to first generation planets in the pre-evolved
progenitor binaries. Observations of exo-planets in such forbidden or
unfavorable regions could possibly serve to uniquely identify their second
generation character. Finally, we point out a few observed candidate second
generation planetary systems, including Gl 86, HD 27442 and all of the
currently observed circumbinary planet candidates. A second generation origin
for these systems could naturally explain their unique configurations.