Non-adaptive group testing involves grouping arbitrary subsets of $n$ items
into different pools. Each pool is then tested and defective items are
identified. A fundamental question involves minimizing the number of pools
required to identify at most $d$ defective items. Motivated by applications in
network tomography, sensor networks and infection propagation, a variation of
group testing problems on graphs is formulated. Unlike conventional group
testing problems, each group here must conform to the constraints imposed by a
graph. For instance, items can be associated with vertices and each pool is any
set of nodes that must be path connected. In this paper, a test is associated
with a random walk. In this context, conventional group testing corresponds to
the special case of a complete graph on $n$ vertices.
  For interesting classes of graphs a rather surprising result is obtained,
namely, that the number of tests required to identify $d$ defective items is
substantially similar to what is required in conventional group testing
problems, where no such constraints on pooling is imposed. Specifically, if
T(n) corresponds to the mixing time of the graph $G$, it is shown that with
$m=O(d^2T^2(n)\log(n/d))$ non-adaptive tests, one can identify the defective
items. Consequently, for the Erdos-Renyi random graph $G(n,p)$, as well as
expander graphs with constant spectral gap, it follows that $m=O(d^2\log^3n)$
non-adaptive tests are sufficient to identify $d$ defective items. Next, a
specific scenario is considered that arises in network tomography, for which it
is shown that $m=O(d^3\log^3n)$ non-adaptive tests are sufficient to identify
$d$ defective items. Noisy counterparts of the graph constrained group testing
problem are considered, for which parallel results are developed. We also
briefly discuss extensions to compressive sensing on graphs.