The Transversal problem, i.e, the enumeration of all the minimal transversals
of a hypergraph in output-polynomial time, i.e, in time polynomial in its size
and the cumulated size of all its minimal transversals, is a fifty years old
open problem, and up to now there are few examples of hypergraph classes where
the problem is solved. A minimal dominating set in a graph is a subset of its
vertex set that has a non empty intersection with the closed neighborhood of
every vertex. It is proved in [M. M. Kant\'e, V. Limouzy, A. Mary, L. Nourine,
On the Enumeration of Minimal Dominating Sets and Related Notions, In Revision
2014] that the enumeration of minimal dominating sets in graphs and the
enumeration of minimal transversals in hypergraphs are two equivalent problems.
Hoping this equivalence can help to get new insights in the Transversal
problem, it is natural to look inside graph classes. It is proved independently
and with different techniques in [Golovach et al. - ICALP 2013] and [Kant\'e et
al. - ISAAC 2012] that minimal edge dominating sets in graphs (i.e, minimal
dominating sets in line graphs) can be enumerated in incremental
output-polynomial time. We provide the first polynomial delay and polynomial
space algorithm that lists all the minimal edge dominating sets in graphs,
answering an open problem of [Golovach et al. - ICALP 2013]. Besides the
result, we hope the used techniques that are a mix of a modification of the
well-known Berge's algorithm and a strong use of the structure of line graphs,
are of great interest and could be used to get new output-polynomial time
algorithms.