We obtain new results for consistent braneworld Kaluza-Klein reductions,
showing how we can derive four-dimensional N=2 gauged supergravity ``localised
on the AdS_4 brane'' as an exact embedding in five-dimensional N=4 gauged
supergravity. Similarly, we obtain five-dimensional N=2 gauged supergravity
localised on an AdS_5 brane as a consistent Kaluza-Klein reduction from
six-dimensional N=4 gauged supergravity. These embeddings can be lifted to type
IIB and massive type IIA supergravity respectively. The new AdS braneworld
Kaluza-Klein reductions are generalisations of earlier results on braneworld
reductions to ungauged supergravities. The lower-dimensional cosmological
constant in our AdS braneworld reductions is an adjustable parameter, and so it
can be chosen to be small enough to be phenomenologically realistic, even if
the higher-dimensional one is of Planck scale. We also discuss analytic
continuations to give a de Sitter gauged supergravity in four dimensions as a
braneworld Kaluza-Klein reduction. We find that there are two distinct routes
that lead to the same four-dimensional theory. In one, we start from a
five-dimensional de Sitter supergravity, which itself arises from a
Kaluza-Klein reduction of type IIB^* supergravity on the hyperbolic 5-sphere.
In the other, we start from AdS gauged supergravity in five dimensions, with an
analytic continuation of the two 2-form potentials, and embed the
four-dimensional de Sitter supergravity in that. The five-dimensional theory
itself comes from an O(4,3)/O(3,2) reduction of Hull's type IIB_{7+3}
supergravity in ten dimensions.