The discovery of a standard-model-like Higgs at 126 GeV and the absence of
squark signals thus far at the LHC both point towards a mini-split spectrum for
supersymmetry. Within standard paradigms, it is non-trivial to realize a
mini-split spectrum with heavier sfermions but lighter gauginos while
simultaneously generating Higgs sector soft terms of the correct magnitude,
suggesting the need for new models of supersymmetry breaking and mediation. In
this paper, we present a new approach to mini-split model building based on
gauge mediation by ``auxiliary groups'', which are the anomaly-free continuous
symmetries of the standard model in the limit of vanishing Yukawa couplings. In
addition to the well-known flavor SU(3)_F and baryon-minus-lepton U(1)_{B-L}
groups, we find that an additional U(1)_H acting on the Higgs doublets alone
can be used to generate Higgs soft masses and B-terms necessary for a complete
model of mini-split. Auxiliary gauge mediation is a special case of Higgsed
gauge mediation, and we review the resulting two-loop scalar soft terms as well
as three-loop gaugino masses. Along the way, we present a complete two-loop
calculation of A-terms and B-terms in gauge mediation, which---contrary to a
common misconception---includes a non-zero contribution at the messenger
threshold which can be sizable in models with light gauginos. We present
several phenomenologically acceptable mini-split spectra arising from auxiliary
gauge mediation and highlight a complete minimal model which realizes the
required spectrum and Higgs sector soft terms with a single U(1)_X auxiliary
gauge symmetry. We discuss possible experimental consequences.