Although the mirage mediation is one of the most plausible mediation
mechanisms of supersymmetry breaking, it suffers from two crucial problems. One
is the \mu-/B \mu-problem and the second is the cosmological one. The former
stems from the fact that the B parameter tends to be comparable with the
gravitino mass, which is two order of magnitude larger than the other soft
masses. The latter problem is caused by the decay of the modulus whose
branching ratio into the gravitino pair is sizable. In this paper, we propose a
model of mirage mediation, in which Peccei-Quinn symmetry is incorporated. In
this axionic mirage mediation, it is shown that the PQ symmetry breaking scale
is dynamically determined around 10^{10-12} GeV due to the supersymmetry
breaking effects, and the \mu-problem can be solved naturally. Furthermore, in
our model, the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) is the axino, that is the
superpartner of the axion. The overabundance of the LSPs due to decays of
modulus/gravitino, which is the most serious cosmological difficulty in the
mirage mediation, can be avoided if the axino is sufficiently light. The
next-LSPs (NLSPs) produced by the gravitino decay eventually decay into the
axino LSPs, yielding the dominant component of the axinos remaining today. It
is shown that the axino with the mass of O(100) MeV is naturally realized,
which can constitute the dark matter of the Universe, with the free-streaming
length of the order of 0.1 Mpc. The saxion, the real scalar component of the
axion supermultiplet, can also be cosmologically harmless due to the dilution
of the modulus decay. The lifetime of NLSP is relatively long, but much shorter
than 1 sec., when the big-bang nucleosynthesis commences. The decay of NLSP
would provide intriguing collider signatures.