We have analyzed GHRS data of eight CTTS and one WTTS. The GHRS data consists
of spectral ranges 40 A wide centered on 1345, 1400, 1497, 1550, and 1900 A.
These UV spectra show strong SiIV, and CIV emission, and large quantities of
sharp (~40 km/s) H2 lines. All the H2 lines belong to the Lyman band and all
the observed lines are single peaked and optically thin. The averages of all
the H2 lines centroids for each star are negative which may indicate that they
come from an outflow. We interpret the emission in H2 as being due to
fluorescence, mostly by Ly_alpha, and identify seven excitation routes within 4
A of that line. We obtain column densities (10^12 to 10^15 cm^-2) and optical
depths (~1 or less) for each exciting transition. We conclude that the
populations are far from being in thermal equilibrium. We do not observe any
lines excited from the far blue wing of Ly_alpha, which implies that the
molecular features are excited by an absorbed profile. SiIV and CIV (corrected
for H2 emission) have widths of ~200 km/s, and an array of centroids
(blueshifted lines, centered, redshifted). These characteristics are difficult
to understand in the context of current models of the accretion shock. For DR
Tau we observe transient strong blueshifted emission, perhaps the a result of
reconnection events in the magnetosphere. We also see evidence of multiple
emission regions for the hot lines. While CIV is optically thin in most stars
in our sample, SiIV is not. However, CIV is a good predictor of SiIV and H2
emission. We conclude that most of the flux in the hot lines may be due to
accretion processes, but the line profiles can have multiple and variable
components.