This thesis is concerned with problems related to Synthetic Aperture Radar
(SAR). The thesis is structured as follows: The first chapter explains what SAR
is, and the physical and mathematical background is illuminated. The following
chapter points out a problem with a divergent integral in a common approach and
proposes an improvement. Numerical comparisons are shown that indicate that the
improvements allow for a superior image quality. Thereafter the problem of
limited data is analyzed. In a realistic SAR-measurement the data gathered from
the electromagnetic waves reflected from the surface can only be collected from
a limited area. However the reconstruction formula requires data from an
infinite distance. The chapter gives an analysis of the artifacts which can
obscure the reconstructed images due to this problem. Additionally, some
numerical examples are shown that point to the severity of the problem. In
chapter 4 the fact that data is available only from a limited area is used to
propose a new inversion formula. This inversion formula has the potential to
make it easier to suppress artifacts due to limited data and, depending on the
application, can be refined to a fast reconstruction formula. In the
penultimate chapter a solution to the problem of left-right ambiguity is
presented. This problem exists since the invention of SAR and is caused by the
geometry of the measurements. This leads to the fact that only symmetric images
can be obtained. With the solution from this chapter it is possible to
reconstruct not only the even part of the reflectivity function, but also the
odd part, thus making it possible to reconstruct asymmetric images. Numerical
simulations are shown to demonstrate that this solution is not affected by
stability problems as other approaches have been. The final chapter develops
some continuative ideas that could be pursued in the future.