In the first part of this thesis the relativistic viscous fluid equations
describing the outflow of high temperature matter created via Hawking radiation
from microscopic black holes are solved numerically for a realistic equation of
state. We focus on black holes with initial temperatures greater than 100 GeV
and lifetimes less than 6 days. The spectra of direct photons and photons from
neutral pion decay are calculated for energies greater than 1 GeV. We calculate
the diffuse gamma ray spectrum from black holes distributed in our galactic
halo. However, the most promising route for their observation is to search for
point sources emitting gamma rays of ever-increasing energy. We also calculate
the spectra of all three flavors of neutrinos arising from direct emission from
the fluid at the neutrino-sphere and from the decay of pions and muons from
their decoupling at much larger radii and smaller temperatures for neutrino
energies between 1 GeV and the Planck energy. The results for neutrino spectra
may be applicable for the last few hours and minutes of the lifetime of a
microscopic black hole. In the second part of this thesis the combined field
equations of gravity and a scalar field are studied. When a potential for a
scalar field has two local minima there arise spherical shell-type solutions of
the classical field equations due to gravitational attraction. We establish
such solutions numerically in a space which is asymptotically de Sitter. It
generically arises when the energy scale characterizing the scalar field
potential is much less than the Planck scale. It is shown that the mirror image
of the shell appears in the other half of the Penrose diagram. The
configuration is smooth everywhere with no physical singularity.