We study the infinite horizon Linear-Quadratic problem and the associated
algebraic Riccati equations for systems with unbounded control actions. The
operator-theoretic context is motivated by composite systems of Partial
Differential Equations (PDE) with boundary or point control. Specific focus is
placed on systems of coupled hyperbolic/parabolic PDE with an overall
`predominant' hyperbolic character, such as, e.g., some models for
thermoelastic or fluid-structure interactions. While unbounded control actions
lead to Riccati equations with unbounded (operator) coefficients, unlike the
parabolic case solvability of these equations becomes a major issue, owing to
the lack of sufficient regularity of the solutions to the composite dynamics.
In the present case, even the more general theory appealing to estimates of the
singularity displayed by the kernel which occurs in the integral representation
of the solution to the control system fails. A novel framework which embodies
possible hyperbolic components of the dynamics has been introduced by the
contributors in 2005, and a full theory of the LQ-problem on a finite time horizon
has been developed. The present paper provides the infinite time horizon
theory, culminating in well-posedness of the corresponding (algebraic) Riccati
equations. New technical challenges are encountered and new tools are needed,
especially in order to pinpoint the differentiability of the optimal solution.
The theory is illustrated by means of a boundary control problem arising in
thermoelasticity.