There are increasing concerns about possible malicious modifications of
integrated circuits (ICs) used in critical applications. Such attacks are often
referred to as hardware Trojans. While many techniques focus on hardware Trojan
detection during IC testing, it is still possible for attacks to go undetected.
Using a combination of new design techniques and new memory technologies, we
present a new approach that detects a wide variety of hardware Trojans during
IC testing and also during system operation in the field. Our approach can also
prevent a wide variety of attacks during synthesis, place-and-route, and
fabrication of ICs. It can be applied to any digital system, and can be tuned
for both traditional and split-manufacturing methods. We demonstrate its
applicability for both ASICs and FPGAs. Using fabricated test chips with Trojan
emulation capabilities and also using simulations, we demonstrate: 1. The area
and power costs of our approach can range between 7.4-165% and 0.07-60%,
respectively, depending on the design and the attacks targeted; 2. The speed
impact can be minimal (close to 0%); 3. Our approach can detect 99.998% of
Trojans (emulated using test chips) that do not require detailed knowledge of
the design being attacked; 4. Our approach can prevent 99.98% of specific
attacks (simulated) that utilize detailed knowledge of the design being
attacked (e.g., through reverse-engineering). 5. Our approach never produces
any false positives, i.e., it does not report attacks when the IC operates
correctly.