The Hungaria asteroids are interior to the main asteroid belt, with semimajor
axes between 1.8 and 2 AU, low eccentricities and inclinations of 16-35
degrees. Small asteroids in the Hungaria region are dominated by a collisional
family associated with (434) Hungaria. The dominant spectral type of the
Hungaria group is the E or X-type (Warner et al, 2009), mostly due to the
E-type composition of Hungaria and its genetic family. It is widely believed
the E-type asteroids are related to the aubrite meteorites, also known as
enstatite achondrites (Gaffey et al, 1992). Here we explore the hypothesis that
aubrites originate in the Hungaria family. In order to test this connection, we
compare model Cosmic Ray Exposure ages from orbital integrations of model
meteoroids with those of aubrites. We show that long CRE ages of aubrites
(longest among stony meteorite groups) reflect the delivery route of meteoroids
from Hungarias to Earth being different than those from main-belt asteroids. We
find that the meteoroids from Hungarias predominantly reach Earth by
Yarkovsky-drifting across the orbit of Mars, with no assistance from orbital
resonances. We conclude that the CRE ages of aubrites are fully consistent with
a dominant source at the inner boundary of the Hungaria family at 1.7 AU. From
here, meteoroids reach Earth through the Mars-crossing region, with relatively
quick delivery times favored due to collisions (with Hungarias and the inner
main-belt objects). We find that, after Vesta, (434) Hungaria is the best
candidate for an asteroidal source of an achondrite group.