In this paper, we develop efficient decoders for non-binary low-density
parity-check (LDPC) codes using the alternating direction method of multipliers
(ADMM). We apply ADMM to two decoding problems. The first problem is linear
programming (LP) decoding. In order to develop an efficient algorithm, we focus
on non-binary codes in fields of characteristic two. This allows us to
transform each constraint in $\mathbb{F}_{2^m}$ to a set of constraints in
$\mathbb{F}_{2}$ that has a factor graph representation. Applying ADMM to the
LP decoding problem results in two types of non-trivial sub-routines. The first
type requires us to solve an unconstrained quadratic program. We solve this
problem efficiently by leveraging new results obtained from studying the above
factor graphs. The second type requires Euclidean projection onto polytopes
that are studied in the literature, a projection that can be solved efficiently
using off-the-shelf techniques, which scale linearly in the dimension of the
vector to project. ADMM LP decoding scales linearly with block length, linearly
with check degree, and quadratically with field size. The second problem we
consider is a penalized LP decoding problem. This problem is obtained by
incorporating a penalty term into the LP decoding objective. The purpose of the
penalty term is to make non-integer solutions (pseudocodewords) more expensive
and hence to improve decoding performance. The ADMM algorithm for the penalized
LP problem requires Euclidean projection onto a polytope formed by embedding
the constraints specified by the non-binary single parity-check code, which can
be solved by applying the ADMM technique to the resulting quadratic program.
Empirically, this decoder achieves a much reduced error rate than LP decoding
at low signal-to-noise ratios.