The effects of Co2+ doping on the structural, magnetic and dielectric
properties of the multiferroic frustrated antiferromagnet Mn3TeO6 have been
investigated. Ceramic samples of the solid solution series Mn3-xCoxTeO6 were
prepared by a solid-state reaction route. X-ray and neutron powder diffraction
and electron microscopy techniques were combined with calorimetric, dielectric
and magnetic measurements to investigate the dependence of the crystal
structure and physical properties on temperature and composition. It is shown
that the compounds with x up to 2.4 all adopt the trigonal corundum-related
structure of pure Mn3TeO6 (space group R-3) in the temperature range 5-295 K
and that the lattice parameters a and c and the unit-cell volume V decrease
linearly with increasing Co2+ concentration. The low- temperature magnetic
susceptibility and heat capacity data evidence the antiferromagnetic ordering
of all samples. The Neel temperature linearly increases with Co2+ concentration
x. Curie-Weiss fits of the high temperature susceptibility indicate that the
magnetic frustration decreases with x. The derived magnetic structure of
Mn3TeO6 can be described as an incommensurately modulated magnetic spin state
with k = [0, 0, kz] and an elliptical spin- spiral order of spins within the
chains of MnO6 octahedra. With increasing Co2+ concentration the propagation
vector kz changes from 0.453 (x = 0) to 0.516 (x = 2.4). The magnetic
anisotropy changes as well, leading to a reorientation of the spiral-basal
plane. A possible coexistence of long-range order of electrical dipoles and
magnetic moments in Mn3-xCoxTeO6 is discussed.