The graph homomorphism problem (HOM) asks whether the vertices of a given
$n$-vertex graph $G$ can be mapped to the vertices of a given $h$-vertex graph
$H$ such that each edge of $G$ is mapped to an edge of $H$. The problem
generalizes the graph coloring problem and at the same time can be viewed as a
special case of the $2$-CSP problem. In this paper, we prove several lower
bound for HOM under the Exponential Time Hypothesis (ETH) assumption. The main
result is a lower bound $2^{\Omega\left( \frac{n \log h}{\log \log h}\right)}$.
This rules out the existence of a single-exponential algorithm and shows that
the trivial upper bound $2^{{\mathcal O}(n\log{h})}$ is almost asymptotically
tight.
  We also investigate what properties of graphs $G$ and $H$ make it difficult
to solve HOM$(G,H)$. An easy observation is that an ${\mathcal O}(h^n)$ upper
bound can be improved to ${\mathcal O}(h^{\operatorname{vc}(G)})$ where
$\operatorname{vc}(G)$ is the minimum size of a vertex cover of $G$. The second
lower bound $h^{\Omega(\operatorname{vc}(G))}$ shows that the upper bound is
asymptotically tight. As to the properties of the "right-hand side" graph $H$,
it is known that HOM$(G,H)$ can be solved in time $(f(\Delta(H)))^n$ and
$(f(\operatorname{tw}(H)))^n$ where $\Delta(H)$ is the maximum degree of $H$
and $\operatorname{tw}(H)$ is the treewidth of $H$. This gives
single-exponential algorithms for graphs of bounded maximum degree or bounded
treewidth. Since the chromatic number $\chi(H)$ does not exceed
$\operatorname{tw}(H)$ and $\Delta(H)+1$, it is natural to ask whether similar
upper bounds with respect to $\chi(H)$ can be obtained. We provide a negative
answer to this question by establishing a lower bound $(f(\chi(H)))^n$ for any
function $f$. We also observe that similar lower bounds can be obtained for
locally injective homomorphisms.