This paper establishes some of the fundamental barriers in the theory of
computations and finally settles the long standing computational spectral
problem. Due to these barriers, there are problems at the heart of
computational theory that do not fit into classical complexity theory. Many
computational problems can be solved as follows: a sequence of approximations
is created by an algorithm, and the solution to the problem is the limit of
this sequence. However, as we demonstrate, for several basic problems in
computations (computing spectra of operators, inverse problems or roots of
polynomials using rational maps) such a procedure based on one limit is
impossible. Yet, one can compute solutions to these problems, but only by using
several limits. This may come as a surprise, however, this touches onto the
boundaries of computational mathematics. To analyze this phenomenon we use the
Solvability Complexity Index (SCI). The SCI is the smallest number of limits
needed in the computation. We show that the SCI of spectra and essential
spectra of operators is equal to three, and that the SCI of spectra of
self-adjoint operators is equal to two, thus providing the lower bound barriers
and the first algorithms to compute such spectra in two and three limits. This
finally settles the long standing computational spectral problem. In addition,
we provide bounds for the SCI of spectra of classes of Schr\"{o}dinger
operators, thus we affirmatively answer the long standing question on whether
or not these spectra can actually be computed. The SCI yields a framework for
understanding barriers in computations. It has a direct link to the
Arithmetical Hierarchy, and we demonstrate how the impossibility result of
McMullen on polynomial root finding with rational maps in one limit and the
results of Doyle and McMullen on solving the quintic in several limits can be
put in the SCI framework.