The biological immune system is a robust, complex, adaptive system that
defends the body from foreign pathogens. It is able to categorize all cells (or
molecules) within the body as self-cells or non-self cells. It does this with
the help of a distributed task force that has the intelligence to take action
from a local and also a global perspective using its network of chemical
messengers for communication. There are two major branches of the immune
system. The innate immune system is an unchanging mechanism that detects and
destroys certain invading organisms, whilst the adaptive immune system responds
to previously unknown foreign cells and builds a response to them that can
remain in the body over a long period of time. This remarkable information
processing biological system has caught the attention of computer science in
recent years. A novel computational intelligence technique, inspired by
immunology, has emerged, called Artificial Immune Systems. Several concepts
from the immune have been extracted and applied for solution to real world
science and engineering problems. In this tutorial, we briefly describe the
immune system metaphors that are relevant to existing Artificial Immune Systems
methods. We will then show illustrative real-world problems suitable for
Artificial Immune Systems and give a step-by-step algorithm walkthrough for one
such problem. A comparison of the Artificial Immune Systems to other well-known
algorithms, areas for future work, tips & tricks and a list of resources will
round this tutorial off. It should be noted that as Artificial Immune Systems
is still a young and evolving field, there is not yet a fixed algorithm
template and hence actual implementations might differ somewhat from time to
time and from those examples given here.