In Peer-to-Peer context, a challenging problem is how to find the appropriate
peer to deal with a given query without overly consuming bandwidth? Different
methods proposed routing strategies of queries taking into account the P2P
network at hand. This paper considers an unstructured P2P system based on an
organization of peers around Super-Peers that are connected to Super-Super-
Peer according to their semantic domains; By analyzing the queries log file, a
predictive model that avoids flooding queries in the P2P network is constructed
after predicting the appropriate Super-Peer, and hence the peer to answer the
query. A challenging problem in a schema-based Peer-to-Peer (P2P) system is how
to locate peers that are relevant to a given query. In this paper,
architecture, based on (Super-)Peers is proposed, focusing on query routing.
The approach to be implemented, groups together (Super-)Peers that have similar
interests for an efficient query routing method. In such groups, called
Super-Super-Peers (SSP), Super-Peers submit queries that are often processed by
members of this group. A SSP is a specific Super-Peer which contains knowledge
about: 1. its Super-Peers and 2. The other SSP. Knowledge is extracted by using
data mining techniques (e.g. Decision Tree algorithms) starting from queries of
peers that transit on the network. The advantage of this distributed knowledge
is that, it avoids making semantic mapping between heterogeneous data sources
owned by (Super-)Peers, each time the system decides to route query to other
(Super-) Peers. The set of SSP improves the robustness in queries routing
mechanism, and the scalability in P2P Network. Compared with a baseline
approach,the proposal architecture shows the effect of the data mining with
better performance in respect to response time and precision.