Motivated by experimental observations of exotic standing wave patterns in
the two-frequency Faraday experiment, we investigate the role of normal form
symmetries in the pattern selection problem. With forcing frequency components
in ratio m/n, where m and n are co-prime integers, there is the possibility
that both harmonic and subharmonic waves may lose stability simultaneously,
each with a different wavenumber. We focus on this situation and compare the
case where the harmonic waves have a longer wavelength than the subharmonic
waves with the case where the harmonic waves have a shorter wavelength. We show
that in the former case a normal form transformation can be used to remove all
quadratic terms from the amplitude equations governing the relevant resonant
triad interactions. Thus the role of resonant triads in the pattern selection
problem is greatly diminished in this situation. We verify our general results
within the example of one-dimensional surface wave solutions of the
Zhang-Vinals model of the two-frequency Faraday problem. In one-dimension, a
1:2 spatial resonance takes the place of a resonant triad in our investigation.
We find that when the bifurcating modes are in this spatial resonance, it
dramatically effects the bifurcation to subharmonic waves in the case of
forcing frequencies are in ratio 1/2; this is consistent with the results of
Zhang and Vinals. In sharp contrast, we find that when the forcing frequencies
are in ratio 2/3, the bifurcation to (sub)harmonic waves is insensitive to the
presence of another spatially-resonant bifurcating mode.