In this article we develop convergence theory for a general class of adaptive
approximation algorithms for abstract nonlinear operator equations on Banach
spaces, and use the theory to obtain convergence results for practical adaptive
finite element methods (AFEM) applied to several classes of nonlinear elliptic
equations. In the first part of the paper, we develop a weak-* convergence
framework for nonlinear operators, whose Gateaux derivatives are locally
Lipschitz and satisfy a local inf-sup condition. The framework can be viewed as
extending the recent convergence results for linear problems of Morin, Siebert
and Veeser to a general nonlinear setting. We formulate an abstract adaptive
approximation algorithm for nonlinear operator equations in Banach spaces with
local structure. The weak-* convergence framework is then applied to this class
of abstract locally adaptive algorithms, giving a general convergence result.
The convergence result is then applied to a standard AFEM algorithm in the case
of several semilinear and quasi-linear scalar elliptic equations and elliptic
systems, including: a semilinear problem with subcritical nonlinearity, the
steady Navier-Stokes equations, and a quasilinear problem with nonlinear
diffusion. This yields several new AFEM convergence results for these nonlinear
problems. In the second part of the paper we develop a second abstract
convergence framework based on strong contraction, extending the recent
contraction results for linear problems of Cascon, Kreuzer, Nochetto, and
Siebert and of Mekchay and Nochetto to abstract nonlinear problems. The
contraction result is then applied to a standard AFEM algorithm for semilinear
problems with sub- and super-critical nonlinearities and for the Hamiltonian
constraint in general relativity.