Accurate state estimation is of paramount importance to maintain the power
system operating in a secure and efficient state. The recently identified
coordinated data injection attacks to meter measurements can bypass the current
security system and introduce errors to the state estimates. The conventional
wisdom to mitigate such attacks is by securing meter measurements to evade
malicious injections. In this paper, we provide a novel alternative to defend
against false-data injection attacks using covert power network topological
information. By keeping the exact reactance of a set of transmission lines from
attackers, no false data injection attack can be launched to compromise any set
of state variables. We first investigate from the attackers' perspective the
necessary condition to perform injection attack. Based on the arguments, we
characterize the optimal protection problem, which protects the state variables
with minimum cost, as a well-studied Steiner tree problem in a graph. Besides,
we also propose a mixed defending strategy that jointly considers the use of
covert topological information and secure meter measurements when either method
alone is costly or unable to achieve the protection objective. A mixed integer
linear programming (MILP) formulation is introduced to obtain the optimal mixed
defending strategy. To tackle the NP-hardness of the problem, a tree
pruning-based heuristic is further presented to produce an approximate solution
in polynomial time. The advantageous performance of the proposed defending
mechanisms is verified in IEEE standard power system testcases.