In this paper, we study the average case complexity of the Unique Games
problem. We propose a natural semi-random model, in which a unique game
instance is generated in several steps. First an adversary selects a completely
satisfiable instance of Unique Games, then she chooses an epsilon-fraction of
all edges, and finally replaces ("corrupts") the constraints corresponding to
these edges with new constraints. If all steps are adversarial, the adversary
can obtain any (1-epsilon) satisfiable instance, so then the problem is as hard
as in the worst case. In our semi-random model, one of the steps is random, and
all other steps are adversarial. We show that known algorithms for unique games
(in particular, all algorithms that use the standard SDP relaxation) fail to
solve semi-random instances of Unique Games.
  We present an algorithm that with high probability finds a solution
satisfying a (1-delta) fraction of all constraints in semi-random instances (we
require that the average degree of the graph is Omega(log k). To this end, we
consider a new non-standard SDP program for Unique Games, which is not a
relaxation for the problem, and show how to analyze it. We present a new
rounding scheme that simultaneously uses SDP and LP solutions, which we believe
is of independent interest.
  Our result holds only for epsilon less than some absolute constant. We prove
that if epsilon > 1/2, then the problem is hard in one of the models, the
result assumes the 2-to-2 conjecture.
  Finally, we study semi-random instances of Unique Games that are at most
(1-epsilon) satisfiable. We present an algorithm that with high probability,
distinguishes between the case when the instance is a semi-random instance and
the case when the instance is an (arbitrary) (1-delta) satisfiable instance if
epsilon > c delta.