The problem of optimal actuation for channel and source coding was recently
formulated and solved in a number of relevant scenarios. In this class of
models, actions are taken at encoders or decoders, either to acquire side
information in an efficient way or to control or probe effectively the channel
state. In this paper, the problem of embedding information on the actions is
studied for both the source and the channel coding set-ups. In both cases, a
decoder is present that observes only a function of the actions taken by an
encoder or a decoder of an action-dependent point-to-point link. For the source
coding model, this decoder wishes to reconstruct a lossy version of the source
being transmitted over the point-to-point link, while for the channel coding
problem the decoder wishes to retrieve a portion of the message conveyed over
the link. For the problem of source coding with actions taken at the decoder, a
single letter characterization of the set of all achievable tuples of rate,
distortions at the two decoders and action cost is derived, under the
assumption that the mentioned decoder observes a function of the actions
non-causally, strictly causally or causally. A special case of the problem in
which the actions are taken by the encoder is also solved. A single-letter
characterization of the achievable capacity-cost region is then obtained for
the channel coding set-up with actions. Examples are provided that shed light
into the effect of information embedding on the actions for the
action-dependent source and channel coding problems.