In this paper, we consider the partial gathering problem of mobile agents in
asynchronous unidirectional rings equipped with whiteboards on nodes. The
partial gathering problem is a new generalization of the total gathering
problem. The partial gathering problem requires, for a given integer $g$, that
each agent should move to a node and terminate so that at least $g$ agents
should meet at the same node. The requirement for the partial gathering problem
is weaker than that for the (well-investigated) total gathering problem, and
thus, we have interests in clarifying the difference on the move complexity
between them. We propose three algorithms to solve the partial gathering
problem. The first algorithm is deterministic but requires unique ID of each
agent. This algorithm achieves the partial gathering in $O(gn)$ total moves,
where $n$ is the number of nodes. The second algorithm is randomized and
requires no unique ID of each agent (i.e., anonymous). This algorithm achieves
the partial gathering in expected $O(gn)$ total moves. The third algorithm is
deterministic and requires no unique ID of each agent. For this case, we show
that there exist initial configurations in which no algorithm can solve the
problem and agents can achieve the partial gathering in $O(kn)$ total moves for
solvable initial configurations, where $k$ is the number of agents. Note that
the total gathering problem requires $\Omega (kn)$ total moves, while the
partial gathering problem requires $\Omega (gn)$ total moves in each model.
Hence, we show that the move complexity of the first and second algorithms is
asymptotically optimal.