In the classic $k$-center problem, we are given a metric graph, and the
objective is to open $k$ nodes as centers such that the maximum distance from
any vertex to its closest center is minimized. In this paper, we consider two
important generalizations of $k$-center, the matroid center problem and the
knapsack center problem. Both problems are motivated by recent content
distribution network applications. Our contributions can be summarized as
follows:
  1. We consider the matroid center problem in which the centers are required
to form an independent set of a given matroid. We show this problem is NP-hard
even on a line. We present a 3-approximation algorithm for the problem on
general metrics. We also consider the outlier version of the problem where a
given number of vertices can be excluded as the outliers from the solution. We
present a 7-approximation for the outlier version.
  2. We consider the (multi-)knapsack center problem in which the centers are
required to satisfy one (or more) knapsack constraint(s). It is known that the
knapsack center problem with a single knapsack constraint admits a
3-approximation. However, when there are at least two knapsack constraints, we
show this problem is not approximable at all. To complement the hardness
result, we present a polynomial time algorithm that gives a 3-approximate
solution such that one knapsack constraint is satisfied and the others may be
violated by at most a factor of $1+\epsilon$. We also obtain a 3-approximation
for the outlier version that may violate the knapsack constraint by
$1+\epsilon$.