In this paper we provide both a diagnosis and resolution of the cosmological
constant problem, one in which a large (as opposed to a small) cosmological
constant $\Lambda$ can be made compatible with observation. We trace the origin
of the cosmological constant problem to the assumption that the local
gravitational Newton constant $G$ (as measured in a Cavendish experiment) sets
the scale for global cosmology. And then we show that once this assumption is
relaxed, the very same cosmic acceleration which has served to make the
cosmological constant problem so very severe can instead then serve to provide
us with its potential resolution. In particular, we present an alternate
cosmology, one based on conformal gravity, a theory whose effective
cosmological $G_{eff}$ not only differs from the Cavendish one by being
altogether smaller than it, but, by even being explicitly negative, naturally
leads to cosmological repulsion. We show in the conformal theory, that once
given only that the sign of $\Lambda$ is specifically the negative one
associated with spontaneous scale symmetry breaking, then, that alone, no
matter how big $\Lambda$ might actually be in magnitude, is sufficient to not
only make the actually measurable contribution $8\pi G_{eff}
\Lambda/3cH^2(t_0)$ of $\Lambda$ to current era cosmology naturally be of order
one today, but to even do so in a way which is fully compatible with the recent
high $z$ supernovae cosmology data. Thus to solve the cosmological constant
problem we do not need to change or quench the energy content of the universe,
but rather we only need change its effect on cosmic evolution.