In this paper, we investigate the problem of compression of data that are in
the form of permutations. This problem has direct applications in the storage
of ordinal data or rankings, and in the analysis of sorting algorithms. Lossy
compression of permutations constitutes new information theoretic challenges
because of the uniqueness of the data format. Following the classical theory of
compression, we propose the rate-distortion problem for the permutation space
under the uniform distribution and analyze the minimum achievable rate of
compression that allows a bounded distortion after recovery, with respect to
different practical and useful distortion measures, including Kendall-tau
distance, Spearman's footrule, Chebyshev distance and inversion-$\ell_1$
distance.
  For all these distortion measures, we characterize the corresponding
rate-distortion functions. We show that source code designs for certain
distortion measures are equivalent, which follows from the near isometry
results of the corresponding distances. While the achievability part of the
rate-distortion function could have been derived from standard random coding
methods, our achievability schemes are constructive. For all permutation spaces
of interest, we provide simple explicit code designs that incur low
encoding/decoding complexities and are asymptotically optimal.
  Apart from the uniform input distribution, we also comment on the compression
of the Mallows model, a popular nonuniform ranking model on the permutation
space. We show that, for the Mallows model, both the entropy and the maximum
distortion at zero rate are much lower than the uniform counterparts. This
indicates greater compression ratio, and suggests that it would be worthwhile
to solve the challenge of designing optimal compression schemes with low
computational complexity for the Mallows model.