Polarization radiation arising when a charged particle moves uniformly in
vacuum nearby the media possessing a finite permittivity $\epsilon (\omega) =
\epsilon^{\prime} + i \epsilon^{\prime \prime}$ and sharp boundaries is
considered. The method is developed in which polarization radiation is
represented as a field of the current density induced in matter by the field of
the moving charge. Solution is found for a problem of radiation arising when
the particle moves along the axis of the cylindrical channel inside a thin
screen of a finite radius and a finite permittivity. Depending on parameters of
the problem, the solution obtained describes different types of polarization
radiation: Cherenkov, transition, and diffraction radiations. In particular,
when the channel radius approaches zero and external radius of the screen tends
to infinity the expression found for radiated energy coincides with Pafomov
solution for transition radiation in a slab. In another special case of ideal
conductivity, the result obtained coincides with the one for diffraction
radiation generated by the particle in the round hole in the thin screen.
Solution is found for a problem of radiation generated when the charge moves
nearby a rectangular screen possessing a finite permittivity. The expression
derived describes diffraction and Cherenkov mechanisms of radiation and takes
into account the multiple reflections of radiation inside the screen. Solution
is also found for a problem of radiation generated when the particle moves
nearby a thin grating consisting of a finite number of rectangular strips
possessing a finite permittivity and separated with vacuum gaps (Smith-Purcell
radiation). In the special case of an ideally conducting grating, the formula
derived for radiated energy coincides with the one of the well-known surface
current model.