The cosmological constant problem is a failure of naturalness and suggests
that a fine-tuning mechanism is at work, which may also address the hierarchy
problem. An example -- supported by Weinberg's successful prediction of the
cosmological constant -- is the potentially vast landscape of vacua in string
theory, where the existence of galaxies and atoms is promoted to a vacuum
selection criterion. Then, low energy SUSY becomes unnecessary, and
supersymmetry -- if present in the fundamental theory -- can be broken near the
unification scale. All the scalars of the supersymmetric standard model become
ultraheavy, except for a single finely tuned Higgs. Yet, the fermions of the
supersymmetric standard model can remain light, protected by chiral symmetry,
and account for the successful unification of gauge couplings. This framework
removes all the difficulties of the SSM: the absence of a light Higgs and
sparticles, dimension five proton decay, SUSY flavor and CP problems, and the
cosmological gravitino and moduli problems. High-scale SUSY breaking raises the
mass of the light Higgs to about 120-150 GeV. The gluino is strikingly long
lived, and a measurement of its lifetime can determine the ultraheavy scalar
mass scale. Measuring the four Yukawa couplings of the Higgs to the gauginos
and higgsinos precisely tests for high-scale SUSY. These ideas, if confirmed,
will demonstrate that supersymmetry is present but irrelevant for the hierarchy
problem -- just as it has been irrelevant for the cosmological constant problem
-- strongly suggesting the existence of a fine-tuning mechanism in nature.