The stable marriage (SM) problem has a wide variety of practical
applications, ranging from matching resident doctors to hospitals, to matching
students to schools, or more generally to any two-sided market. In the
classical formulation, n men and n women express their preferences (via a
strict total order) over the members of the other sex. Solving a SM problem
means finding a stable marriage where stability is an envy-free notion: no man
and woman who are not married to each other would both prefer each other to
their partners or to being single. We consider both the classical stable
marriage problem and one of its useful variations (denoted SMTI) where the men
and women express their preferences in the form of an incomplete preference
list with ties over a subset of the members of the other sex. Matchings are
permitted only with people who appear in these lists, an we try to find a
stable matching that marries as many people as possible. Whilst the SM problem
is polynomial to solve, the SMTI problem is NP-hard. We propose to tackle both
problems via a local search approach, which exploits properties of the problems
to reduce the size of the neighborhood and to make local moves efficiently. We
evaluate empirically our algorithm for SM problems by measuring its runtime
behaviour and its ability to sample the lattice of all possible stable
marriages. We evaluate our algorithm for SMTI problems in terms of both its
runtime behaviour and its ability to find a maximum cardinality stable
marriage.For SM problems, the number of steps of our algorithm grows only as
O(nlog(n)), and that it samples very well the set of all stable marriages. It
is thus a fair and efficient approach to generate stable marriages.Furthermore,
our approach for SMTI problems is able to solve large problems, quickly
returning stable matchings of large and often optimal size despite the
NP-hardness of this problem.