Zipf's law is the well-known formulation describing the scaling relation
between rank and size of elements in both physical and social systems. The Zipf
distribution represents one of the ubiquitous general empirical observations
across the individual sciences. However, there is no convincing explanation for
the fundament of the empirical law, despite the frequency with which it has
been observed, esp., in complex systems. In this paper, Zipf's law is
reinterpreted by the process of scaling decomposition and reconstruction. A
geometric sequence, p-sequence, abstracted from the general Zipf distribution,
is converted into a self-similar hierarchy. Thus the discrete inverse power law
is converted into a pair of exponential laws termed the generalized 2n
principle. A new inverse power law is then derived from the exponential
functions to describe the size-number scaling relation. By doing the underlying
rationale can be revealed as entropy-maximizing, which harmonizes equity for
individuals (parts) and efficient of the whole. Three simple mathematical
experiments and two typical empirical cases are employed to support the
theoretical results. The self-similar hierarchy proved to occur widely in
physical and social systems and represent a source of considerable interest in
many fields involving cities, rivers, earthquakes, fractals, route from
bifurcation to chaos. A number of scaling phenomena such as fractal, 1/f{\beta}
noise, allometric growth may be integrated by the ideas of hierarchical
structure to explain the simple rules of complex systems.