In statistics, series of ordinary least squares problems (OLS) are used to
study the linear correlation among sets of variables of interest; in many
studies, the number of such variables is at least in the millions, and the
corresponding datasets occupy terabytes of disk space. As the availability of
large-scale datasets increases regularly, so does the challenge in dealing with
them. Indeed, traditional solvers---which rely on the use of black-box"
routines optimized for one single OLS---are highly inefficient and fail to
provide a viable solution for big-data analyses. As a case study, in this paper
we consider a linear regression consisting of two-dimensional grids of related
OLS problems that arise in the context of genome-wide association analyses, and
give a careful walkthrough for the development of {\sc ols-grid}, a
high-performance routine for shared-memory architectures; analogous steps are
relevant for tailoring OLS solvers to other applications. In particular, we
first illustrate the design of efficient algorithms that exploit the structure
of the OLS problems and eliminate redundant computations; then, we show how to
effectively deal with datasets that do not fit in main memory; finally, we
discuss how to cast the computation in terms of efficient kernels and how to
achieve scalability. Importantly, each design decision along the way is
justified by simple performance models. {\sc ols-grid} enables the solution of
$10^{11}$ correlated OLS problems operating on terabytes of data in a matter of
hours.