We consider the classical secret sharing problem in the case where all agents
are selfish but rational. In recent work, Kol and Naor show that, when there
are two players, in the non-simultaneous communication model, i.e. when rushing
is possible, there is no Nash equilibrium that ensures both players learn the
secret. However, they describe a mechanism for this problem, for any number of
players, that is an epsilon-Nash equilibrium, in that no player can gain more
than epsilon utility by deviating from it. Unfortunately, the Kol and Naor
mechanism, and, to the best of our knowledge, all previous mechanisms for this
problem require each agent to send O(n) messages in expectation, where n is the
number of agents. This may be problematic for some applications of rational
secret sharing such as secure multi-party computation and simulation of a
mediator.
  We address this issue by describing mechanisms for rational secret sharing
that are designed for large n. Both of our results hold for n > 2, and are Nash
equilbria, rather than just epsilon-Nash equilbria.
  Our first result is a mechanism for n-out-of-n rational secret sharing that
is scalable in the sense that it requires each agent to send only an expected
O(log n) bits. Moreover, the latency of this mechanism is O(log n) in
expectation, compared to O(n) expected latency for the Kol and Naor result. Our
second result is a mechanism for a relaxed variant of rational m-out-of-n
secret sharing where m = Theta(n). It requires each processor to send O(log n)
bits and has O(log n) latency. Both of our mechanisms are non-cryptographic,
and are not susceptible to backwards induction.