Web usability is continuing to be a pressing problem. For number of years
researchers have been developed tools for doing automatic web usability
testing. This study uses our own PHP, and MySQL based tool AWebHUT: Automated
Web Homepage Usability Tester to evaluate web usability of full Dmoz
(www.dmoz.org) Asia web sites (45126 on time stamp 2011-12-03 04:12:46 GMT).
The tool uses an extensive automated quantitative analysis of XHTML source code
of homepages against seventeen organised web usability guidelines. The
automated quantitative approach is effective on large scale to achieve better
usability. The AWebHUT uses four web usability levels such as N: Neutral, V:
Violate, R: Respect, and E: Error to evaluate web usability. The main objective
of the study is to produce data which is used to answer research questions, (1)
Are there any categories of web sites which have usability problems? Which
ones? and (2) Are there any categories in which the usability is typically
higher? Why? The findings were indicated that all Asia categories have
usability problems. Furthermore, there are four web sites which have highest
web usability problem with violation percentage 71. One step further, the Asia
category: Weather has highest usability problems with 42.2819 as the average of
the violation percentage. The category Weather uses tables and images,
considerable amount of those were not satisfying web usability guidelines which
relates to tables and images. One step further, the Asia wants to get the same
level of usability as North America, Europe, and Australia therefore it is
essential to have an automated web usability evaluation in Asia web sites to
identify web usability problems which are important for improving Asia web
sites.