Ferroic transition metal oxides, which exhibit spontaneous elastic,
electrical, magnetic or toroidal order, exhibit functional properties that find
use in ultrastable solid-state memories to sensors and medical imaging
technologies. To realize multifunctional behavior, where one order parameter
can be coupled to the conjugate field of another order parameter, however,
requires a common microscopic origin for the long-range order. Here, we
formulate a complete theory for a novel form of ferroelectricity, whereby a
spontaneous and switchable polarization emerges from the destruction of an
antiferroelectric state due to octahedral rotations and ordered cation
sublattices. We then construct a materials design framework based on
crystal-chemistry descriptors rooted in group theory, which enables the facile
design of artificial oxides with large electric polarizations, P, simultaneous
with small energetic switching barriers between +P and -P. We validate the
theory with first principles density functional calculations on more than 16
perovskite-structured oxides, illustrating it could be operative in any
materials classes exhibiting two- or three-dimensional corner-connected
octahedral frameworks. We show the principles governing materials selection of
the "layered" systems originate in the lattice dynamics of the A cation
displacements stabilized by the pervasive BO$_6$ rotations of single phase
ABO$_3$ materials, whereby the latter distortions govern the optical band gaps,
magnetic order and critical transition temperatures. Our approach provides the
elusive route to the ultimate multifunctionality property control by an
external electric field.