Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZ) based macroscopic simulation studies are mostly
applied in evacuation planning and operation areas. The large size in TAZ and
aggregated information of macroscopic simulation underestimate the real
evacuation performance. To take advantage of the high resolution demographic
data LandScan USA (the zone size is much smaller than TAZ) and agent-based
microscopic traffic simulation models, many new problems appeared and novel
solutions are needed. A series of studies are conducted using LandScan USA
Population Cells (LPC) data for evacuation assignments with different network
configurations, travel demand models, and travelers compliance behavior.
  First, a new Multiple Source Nearest Destination Shortest Path (MSNDSP)
problem is defined for generating Origin Destination matrix in evacuation
assignments when using LandScan dataset. Second, a new agent-based traffic
assignment framework using LandScan and TRANSIMS modules is proposed for
evacuation planning and operation study. Impact analysis on traffic analysis
area resolutions (TAZ vs LPC), evacuation start times (daytime vs nighttime),
and departure time choice models (normal S shape model vs location based model)
are studied. Third, based on the proposed framework, multi-scale network
configurations (two levels of road networks and two scales of zone sizes) and
three routing schemes (shortest network distance, highway biased, and shortest
straight-line distance routes) are implemented for the evacuation performance
comparison studies. Fourth, to study the impact of human behavior under
evacuation operations, travelers compliance behavior with compliance levels
from total complied to total non-complied are analyzed.