Cloud computing offers the potential to help scientists to process massive
number of computing resources often required in machine learning application
such as computer vision problems. This proposal would like to show that which
benefits can be obtained from cloud in order to help medical image analysis
users (including scientists, clinicians, and research institutes). As security
and privacy of algorithms are important for most of algorithms inventors, these
algorithms can be hidden in a cloud to allow the users to use the algorithms as
a package without any access to see/change their inside. In another word, in
the user part, users send their images to the cloud and configure the algorithm
via an interface. In the cloud part, the algorithms are applied to this image
and the results are returned back to the user. My proposal has two parts: (1)
investigate the potential of cloud computing for computer vision problems and
(2) study the components of a proposed cloud-based framework for medical image
analysis application and develop them (depending on the length of the
internship). The investigation part will involve a study on several aspects of
the problem including security, usability (for medical end users of the
service), appropriate programming abstractions for vision problems, scalability
and resource requirements. In the second part of this proposal I am going to
thoroughly study of the proposed framework components and their relations and
develop them. The proposed cloud-based framework includes an integrated
environment to enable scientists and clinicians to access to the previous and
current medical image analysis algorithms using a handful user interface
without any access to the algorithm codes and procedures.