In an effort to develop breakthrough technologies that enable drastic
reduction in CO2 emissions from steel industry (ULCOS project), the reduction
of iron ore by pure hydrogen in a direct reduction shaft furnace was
investigated. After experimental and modelling studies, a 2D, axisymmetrical
steady-state model called REDUCTOR was developed to simulate a counter-current
moving bed reactor in which hematite pellets are reduced by pure hydrogen. This
model is based on the numerical solution of the local mass, energy and momentum
balances of the gas and solid species by the finite volume method. A single
pellet sub-model was included in the global furnace model to simulate the
successive reactions (hematite->magnetite ->wustite->iron) involved in the
process, using the concept of additive reaction times. The different steps of
mass transfer and possible iron sintering at the grain scale were accounted
for. The kinetic parameters were derived from reduction experiments carried out
in a thermobalance furnace, at different conditions, using small hematite cubes
shaped from industrial pellets. Solid characterizations were also performed to
further understand the microstrutural evolution. First results have shown that
the use of hydrogen accelerates the reduction in comparison to CO reaction,
making it possible to design a hydrogen-operated shaft reactor quite smaller
than current MIDREX and HYL. Globally, the hydrogen steelmaking route based on
this new process is technically and environmentally attractive. CO2 emissions
would be reduced by more than 80%. Its future is linked to the emergence of the
hydrogen economy.