The high density of the close-in extrasolar planet HD149026b suggests the
presence of a huge core in the planet, which challenges planet formation
theory. We first derive constraints on the amount of heavy elements and
hydrogen/helium present in the planet: We find that preferred values of the
core mass are between 50 and 80 M_E. We then investigate the possibility of
subcritical core accretion as envisioned for Uranus and Neptune and find that
the subcritical accretion scenario is unlikely in the case of HD149026b for at
least two reasons: (i) Subcritical planets are such that the ratio of their
core mass to their total mass is above ~0.7, in contradiction with constraints
for all but the most extreme interior models of HD149026b; (ii) High accretion
rates and large isolation mass required for the formation of a subcritical core
of 30 M_E are possible only at specific orbital distances in a disk with a
surface density of dust equal to at least 10 times that of the minimum mass
solar nebula. This value climbs to 30 when considering a 50 M_E core. These
facts point toward two main routes for the formation of this planet: (i) Gas
accretion that is limited by a slow viscous inflow of gas in an evaporating
disk; (ii) A significant modification of the composition of the planet after as
accretion has stopped. These two routes are not mutually exclusive.
Illustrating the second route, we show that for a wide range of impact
parameters, giant impacts lead to a loss of the gas component of the planet and
thus may lead to planets that are highly enriched in heavy elements. In the
giant impact scenario, we expect an outer giant planet to be present.
Observational studies by imaging, astrometry and long term interferometry of
this system are needed to better narrow down the ensemble of possibilities.