This article presents a mathematical framework to simultaneously tackle the
problems of 3D reconstruction, pose estimation and object classification, from
a single 2D image. In sharp contrast with state of the art methods that rely
primarily on 2D information and solve each of these three problems separately
or iteratively, we propose a mathematical framework that incorporates prior
"knowledge" about the 3D shapes of different object classes and solves these
problems jointly and simultaneously, using a hypothesize-and-bound (H&B)
algorithm. In the proposed H&B algorithm one hypothesis is defined for each
possible pair [object class, object pose], and the algorithm selects the
hypothesis H that maximizes a function L(H) encoding how well each hypothesis
"explains" the input image. To find this maximum efficiently, the function L(H)
is not evaluated exactly for each hypothesis H, but rather upper and lower
bounds for it are computed at a much lower cost. In order to obtain bounds for
L(H) that are tight yet inexpensive to compute, we extend the theory of shapes
described in [14] to handle projections of shapes. This extension allows us to
define a probabilistic relationship between the prior knowledge given in 3D and
the 2D input image. This relationship is derived from first principles and is
proven to be the only relationship having the properties that we intuitively
expect from a "projection." In addition to the efficiency and optimality
characteristics of H&B algorithms, the proposed framework has the desirable
property of integrating information in the 2D image with information in the 3D
prior to estimate the optimal reconstruction. While this article focuses
primarily on the problem mentioned above, we believe that the theory presented
herein has multiple other potential applications.