We consider the weighted antimonotone and the weighted monotone
satisfiability problems on normalized circuits of depth at most $t \geq 2$,
abbreviated {\sc wsat$^-[t]$} and {\sc wsat$^+[t]$}, respectively. These
problems model the weighted satisfiability of antimonotone and monotone
propositional formulas (including weighted anitmonoone/monotone {\sc cnf-sat})
in a natural way, and serve as the canonical problems in the definition of the
parameterized complexity hierarchy. We characterize the parameterized
complexity of {\sc wsat$^-[t]$} and {\sc wsat$^+[t]$} with respect to the genus
of the circuit. For {\sc wsat$^-[t]$}, which is $W[t]$-complete for odd $t$ and
$W[t-1]$-complete for even $t$, the characterization is precise: We show that
{\sc wsat$^-[t]$} is fixed-parameter tractable (FPT) if the genus of the
circuit is $n^{o(1)}$ ($n$ is the number of the variables in the circuit), and
that it has the same $W$-hardness as the general {\sc wsat$^-[t]$} problem
(i.e., with no restriction on the genus) if the genus is $n^{O(1)}$. For {\sc
wsat$^+[2]$} (i.e., weighted monotone {\sc cnf-sat}), which is $W[2]$-complete,
the characterization is also precise: We show that {\sc wsat$^+[2]$} is FPT if
the genus is $n^{o(1)}$ and $W[2]$-complete if the genus is $n^{O(1)}$. For
{\sc wsat$^+[t]$} where $t > 2$, which is $W[t]$-complete for even $t$ and
$W[t-1]$-complete for odd $t$, we show that it is FPT if the genus is
$O(\sqrt{\log{n}})$, and that it has the same $W$-hardness as the general {\sc
wsat$^+[t]$} problem if the genus is $n^{O(1)}$.