In this work, we propose a distributed rate allocation algorithm that
minimizes the average decoding delay for multimedia clients in inter-session
network coding systems. We consider a scenario where the users are organized in
a mesh network and each user requests the content of one of the available
sources. We propose a novel distributed algorithm where network users determine
the coding operations and the packet rates to be requested from the parent
nodes, such that the decoding delay is minimized for all the clients. A rate
allocation problem is solved by every user, which seeks the rates that minimize
the average decoding delay for its children and for itself. Since the
optimization problem is a priori non-convex, we introduce the concept of
equivalent packet flows, which permits to estimate the expected number of
packets that every user needs to collect for decoding. We then decompose our
original rate allocation problem into a set of convex subproblems, which are
eventually combined to obtain an effective approximate solution to the delay
minimization problem. The results demonstrate that the proposed scheme
eliminates the bottlenecks and reduces the decoding delay experienced by users
with limited bandwidth resources. We validate the performance of our
distributed rate allocation algorithm in different video streaming scenarios
using the NS-3 network simulator. We show that our system is able to take
benefit of inter-session network coding for simultaneous delivery of video
sessions in networks with path diversity.