While measuring returns to scale in data envelopment analysis (DEA), the
occurrence of multiple supporting hyperplanes has been perceived as a crucial
issue. To deal effectively with this in weigh restrictions (WR) framework, we
first precisely identify the two potential sources of its origin in the
non-radial DEA setting. If the firm under evaluation P is WR-efficient, the
non-full-dimensionality of its corresponding P-face-a face of minimum dimension
that contains P-is the unique source of origin (problem Type I). Otherwise, the
occurrence of multiple WR-projections or, correspondingly, multiple P-faces
becomes the other additional source of origin (problem Type II). To the best of
our knowledge, while problem Type I has been correctly addressed in the
literature, the simultaneous occurrences of problems Types I and II have not
effectively been coped with. Motivated by this, we first show that problem Type
II can be circumvented by using a P-face containing all the P-faces. Based on
this finding, we then devise a two-stage linear programming based procedure by
extending a recently developed methodology by [Mehdiloozad, M., Mirdehghan, S.
M., Sahoo, B. K., & Roshdi, I. (2015). On the identification of the global
reference set in data envelopment analysis. European Journal of Operational
Research, 245, 779-788]. Our proposed method inherits all the advantages of the
recently developed method and is computationally efficient. The practical
applicability of our proposed method is demonstrated through a real-world data
set of 80 Iranian secondary schools.