The one-dimensional penetrable-square-well fluid is studied using both
analytical tools and specialized Monte Carlo simulations. The model consists of
a penetrable core characterized by a finite repulsive energy combined with a
short-range attractive well. This is a many-body one-dimensional problem,
lacking an exact analytical solution, for which the usual van Hove theorem on
the absence of phase transition does not apply. We determine a
high-penetrability approximation complementing a similar low-penetrability
approximation presented in previous work. This is shown to be equivalent to the
usual Debye-H\"{u}ckel theory for simple charged fluids for which the virial
and energy routes are identical. The internal thermodynamic consistency with
the compressibility route and the validity of the approximation in describing
the radial distribution function is assessed by a comparison against numerical
simulations. The Fisher-Widom line separating the oscillatory and monotonic
large-distance behavior of the radial distribution function is computed within
the high-penetrability approximation and compared with the opposite regime,
thus providing a strong indication of the location of the line in all possible
regimes. The high-penetrability approximation predicts the existence of a
critical point and a spinodal line, but this occurs outside the applicability
domain of the theory. We investigate the possibility of a fluid-fluid
transition by Gibbs ensemble Monte Carlo techniques, not finding any evidence
of such a transition. Additional analytical arguments are given to support this
claim. Finally, we find a clustering transition when Ruelle's stability
criterion is not fulfilled. The consequences of these findings on the
three-dimensional phase diagrams are also discussed.