This article is about how the "SP theory of intelligence" and its realisation
in the "SP machine" may, with advantage, be applied to the management and
analysis of big data. The SP system -- introduced in the article and fully
described elsewhere -- may help to overcome the problem of variety in big data:
it has potential as "a universal framework for the representation and
processing of diverse kinds of knowledge" (UFK), helping to reduce the
diversity of formalisms and formats for knowledge and the different ways in
which they are processed. It has strengths in the unsupervised learning or
discovery of structure in data, in pattern recognition, in the parsing and
production of natural language, in several kinds of reasoning, and more. It
lends itself to the analysis of streaming data, helping to overcome the problem
of velocity in big data. Central in the workings of the system is lossless
compression of information: making big data smaller and reducing problems of
storage and management. There is potential for substantial economies in the
transmission of data, for big cuts in the use of energy in computing, for
faster processing, and for smaller and lighter computers. The system provides a
handle on the problem of veracity in big data, with potential to assist in the
management of errors and uncertainties in data. It lends itself to the
visualisation of knowledge structures and inferential processes. A
high-parallel, open-source version of the SP machine would provide a means for
researchers everywhere to explore what can be done with the system and to
create new versions of it.