Translation is an important stage in gene expression. During this stage,
macro-molecules called ribosomes travel along the mRNA strand linking
amino-acids together in a specific order to create a functioning protein. An
important question is how to maximize protein production. Indeed, translation
is known to consume most of the cell's energy and it is natural to assume that
evolution shaped this process so that it maximizes the protein production rate.
If this is indeed so then one can estimate various parameters of the
translation machinery by solving an appropriate mathematical optimization
problem. The same problem also arises in the context of synthetic biology,
namely, re-engineer heterologous genes in order to maximize their translation
rate in a host organism. We consider the problem of maximizing the protein
production rate using a computational model for translation-elongation called
the ribosome flow model (RFM). This model describes the flow of the ribosomes
along an mRNA chain of length n using a set of n first-order nonlinear ODEs. It
also includes n+1 positive parameters: the ribosomal initiation rate into the
mRNA chain, and n elongation rates along the chain sites. We show that the
steady-state translation rate in the RFM is a strictly concave function of its
parameters. This means that the problem of maximizing the translation rate
under a suitable constraint always admits a unique solution, and that this
solution can be determined using highly-efficient algorithms for solving convex
optimization problems even for large values of n. Furthermore, our analysis
shows that the optimal translation rate can be computed based only on the
optimal initiation rate and the elongation rate of the codons near the
beginning of the ORF. We discuss some applications of the theoretical results
to synthetic biology, molecular evolution, and functional genomics.