We study the escape of Brownian motion from the domain of attraction $\Omega$
of a stable focus with a strong drift. The boundary $\partial \Omega$ of
$\Omega$ is an unstable limit cycle of the drift and the focus is very close to
the limit cycle. We find a new phenomenon of oscillatory decay of the peaks of
the survival probability of the Brownian motion in $\Omega$. We compute
explicitly the complex-valued second eigenvalue $\lambda_2(\Omega$) of the
Fokker-Planck operator with Dirichlet boundary conditions and show that it is
responsible for the peaks. Specifically, we demonstrate that the dominant
oscillation frequency equals $1/{\mathfrak{I}}m\{\lambda_2(\Omega)\}$ and is
independent of the relative noise strength. We apply the analysis to a
canonical system and compare the density of exit points on $\partial \Omega$ to
that obtained from stochastic simulations. We find that this density is
concentrated in a small portion of the boundary, thus rendering the exit a
narrow escape problem. Unlike the case in the classical activated escape
problem, the principal eigenvalue does not necessarily decay exponentially as
the relative noise strength decays. The oscillatory narrow escape problem
arises in a mathematical model of neural networks with synaptic depression. We
identify oscillation peaks in the density of the time the network spends in a
specific state. This observation explains the oscillations of stochastic
trajectories around a focus prior to escape and also the non-Poissonian escape
times. This phenomenon has been observed and reported in the neural network
literature.