The rapid pace of demand for mobile data services and the limited supply of
capacity by the current wireless access networks infrastructure are leading
network operators to increase the density of base station deployments,
particularly in urban areas, to improve the network performance. This
densification, made possible by small-cell deployment, also brings in a novel
set of challenges, specifically related to the cost of ownership of which
backhaul is of primary concern. The radio-frequency (RF) backhaul provides a
scalable and easy to plan and deploy solution, its performance, however, is
limited by latency problems. FSO backhaul offers a better overall latency and a
higher data rate than the RF backhauls, however, the performance of FSO is
sensitive to weather conditions. To combine the advantages of RF backhauls, and
FSO backhauls, this paper proposes a cost-efficient backhaul network using the
hybrid RF/FSO technology. To ensure a resilient backhaul, a given degree of
redundancy is guaranteed to cope with link failure by connecting each node
through $K$ link-disjoint paths. Hence, the network planning problem is the one
of minimizing the total deployment cost by choosing the appropriate link type,
i.e., either hybrid RF/FSO or optical fiber, between each couple of
base-stations while guaranteeing $K$ link-disjoint connections, a targeted data
rate, and a reliability threshold. Given the complexity of finding the optimal
solution, this paper suggests reformulating the problem as a more tractable
maximum weight clique problem in the planning graph under a specified realistic
assumption about the cost of OF and hybrid RF/FSO links. Simulation results
show the cost of the different planning and suggest that the proposed heuristic
solution have a close-to-optimal performance for a significant gain in
computation complexity.