Discrete polymatroids are the multi-set analogue of matroids. In this paper,
we explore the connections between linear network coding, linear index coding
and representable discrete polymatroids. First, we consider the vector linear
solvability of networks over a field $\mathbb{F}_q.$ We define a discrete
polymatroidal network and show that a vector linear solution exists for a
network if and only if the network is discrete polymatroidal with respect to a
representable discrete polymatroid. An algorithm to construct networks starting
from certain class of discrete polymatroids is provided. Every representation
over $\mathbb{F}_q$ for the discrete polymatroid, results in a vector linear
solution over $\mathbb{F}_q$ for the constructed network. We generalize the
results on the connection between discrete polymatroids and vector linear
solutions to linear fractional network coding solutions in which the message
dimensions need not necessarily be the same and need not be the same as the
edge vector dimension. Next, we consider the index coding problem and show that
a linear solution to an index coding problem exists if and only if there exists
a representable discrete polymatroid satisfying certain conditions which are
determined by the index coding problem considered. El Rouayheb et. al. showed
that the problem of finding a multi-linear representation for a matroid can be
reduced to finding a perfect linear index coding solution for an index coding
problem obtained from that matroid. Multi-linear representation of a matroid
can be viewed as a special case of representation of an appropriate discrete
polymatroid. We generalize the result of El Rouayheb et. al. by showing that
the problem of finding a representation for a discrete polymatroid can be
reduced to finding a perfect linear index coding solution for an index coding
problem obtained from that discrete polymatroid.