We present a computational scheme for orbital-free density functional theory
(OFDFT) that simultaneously provides access to all-electron values and
preserves the OFDFT linear scaling as a function of the system size. Using the
projector augmented-wave method (PAW) in combination with real-space methods we
overcome some obstacles faced by other available implementation schemes.
Specifically, the advantages of using the PAW method are two fold. First, PAW
reproduces all-electron values offering freedom in adjusting the convergence
parameters and the atomic setups allow tuning the numerical accuracy per
element. Second, PAW can provide a solution to some of the convergence problems
exhibited in other OFDFT implementations based on Kohn-Sham codes. Using PAW
and real-space methods, our orbital-free results agree with the reference
all-electron values with a mean absolute error of 10~meV and the number of
iterations required by the self-consistent cycle is comparable to the KS
method. The comparison of all-electron and pseudopotential bulk modulus and
lattice constant reveal an enormous difference, demonstrating that in order to
assess the performance of OFDFT functionals it is necessary to use
implementations that obtain all-electron values. The proposed combination of
methods is the most promising route currently available. We finally show that a
parametrized kinetic energy functional can give lattice constants and bulk
moduli comparable in accuracy to those obtained by the KS PBE method,
exemplified with the case of diamond.