Glioblastoma are known to infiltrate the brain parenchyma instead of forming
a solid tumor mass with a defined boundary. Only the part of the tumor with
high tumor cell density can be localized through imaging directly. In contrast,
brain tissue infiltrated by tumor cells at low density appears normal on
current imaging modalities. In clinical practice, a uniform margin is applied
to account for microscopic spread of disease.
  The current treatment planning procedure can potentially be improved by
accounting for the anisotropy of tumor growth: Anatomical barriers such as the
falx cerebri represent boundaries for migrating tumor cells. In addition, tumor
cells primarily spread in white matter and infiltrate gray matter at lower
rate. We investigate the use of a phenomenological tumor growth model for
treatment planning. The model is based on the Fisher-Kolmogorov equation, which
formalizes these growth characteristics and estimates the spatial distribution
of tumor cells in normal appearing regions of the brain. The target volume for
radiotherapy planning can be defined as an isoline of the simulated tumor cell
density.
  A retrospective study involving 10 glioblastoma patients has been performed.
To illustrate the main findings of the study, a detailed case study is
presented for a glioblastoma located close to the falx. In this situation, the
falx represents a boundary for migrating tumor cells, whereas the corpus
callosum provides a route for the tumor to spread to the contralateral
hemisphere. We further discuss the sensitivity of the model with respect to the
input parameters. Correct segmentation of the brain appears to be the most
crucial model input.
  We conclude that the tumor growth model provides a method to account for
anisotropic growth patterns of glioblastoma, and may therefore provide a tool
to make target delineation more objective and automated.