The stationary, axisymmetric reduction of the vacuum Einstein equations, the
so-called Ernst equation, is an integrable nonlinear PDE in two dimensions.
There now exists a general method for analyzing boundary value problems for
integrable PDEs, and this method consists of two steps: (a) Construct an
integral representation of the solution characterized via a matrix
Riemann-Hilbert (RH) problem formulated in the complex $k$-plane, where $k$
denotes the spectral parameter of the associated Lax pair. This representation
involves, in general, some unknown boundary values, thus the solution formula
is {\it not} yet effective. (b) Characterize the unknown boundary values by
analyzing a certain equation called the {\it global relation}. This analysis
involves, in general, the solution of a nonlinear problem; however, for certain
boundary value problems called linearizable, it is possible to determine the
unknown boundary values using only linear operations. Here, we employ the above
methodology for the investigation of certain boundary value problems for the
elliptic version of the Ernst equation. For this problem, the main novelty is
the occurence of the spectral parameter in the form of a square root and this
necessitates the introduction of a two-sheeted Riemann surface for the
formulation of the relevant RH problem. As a concrete application of the
general formalism, it is shown that the particular boundary value problem
corresponding to the physically significant case of a rotating disk is a
linearizable boundary value problem. In this way the remarkable results of
Neugebauer and Meinel are recovered.