Frequency recovery/estimation from samples of superimposed sinusoidal signals
is a classical problem in statistical signal processing. Its research has been
recently advanced by atomic norm techniques which deal with continuous-valued
frequencies and completely eliminate basis mismatches of existing compressed
sensing methods. This work investigates the frequency recovery problem in the
presence of multiple measurement vectors (MMVs) which share the same frequency
components, termed as joint sparse frequency recovery and arising naturally
from array processing applications. $\ell_0$- and $\ell_1$-norm-like
formulations, referred to as atomic $\ell_0$ norm and the atomic norm, are
proposed to recover the frequencies and cast as (nonconvex) rank minimization
and (convex) semidefinite programming, respectively. Their guarantees for exact
recovery are theoretically analyzed which extend existing results with a single
measurement vector (SMV) to the MMV case and meanwhile generalize the existing
joint sparse compressed sensing framework to the continuous dictionary setting.
In particular, given a set of $N$ regularly spaced samples per measurement
vector it is shown that the frequencies can be exactly recovered via solving a
convex optimization problem once they are separate by at least (approximately)
$\frac{4}{N}$. Under the same frequency separation condition, a random subset
of $N$ regularly spaced samples of size $O(K\log K\log N)$ per measurement
vector is sufficient to guarantee exact recovery of the $K$ frequencies and
missing samples with high probability via similar convex optimization.
Extensive numerical simulations are provided to validate our analysis and
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.