The dynamics of extended bodies is a fundamental problem in any gravitational
theory. In the case of General Relativity, this problem is under study since
the theory was published. Several methods have been developed and different
approaches are avalaible in the literature to interpret the relativistic
contributions in the motion under gravity influence. The main goal in this
thesis is to study a general method to face the equation of motion for extended
bodies in General Relativity. We started with a proposal in the Newtonian
theory, which consists in a multipolar expansion for the gravitational
potentials as a function of the mass density moments and other physical
variables as the stress tensor. The methodology give us the equation of motion
for an isolated and self-gravitating system of extended bodies in Newtonian
mechanics. A geometrical approach to get the equation of motion is also used
for the Newtonian problems, it allows us to extend the methodology to General
Relativity. In General Relativity, some new concepts are necessary: world tube,
world line, generalized ideas of momentum, angular momentum, torque and center
of mass are introduced in a general context. General expressions for the
equation of motion in the case of extended bodies are written without any
restriction. In order to gain some physical understanding, we compute the
Papapetrous's equation of motion for a test extended body in a static and
isotropic metric. Finally, we study a system of two extended bodies in the
post-Newtonian approximation. We define the mass multipole moments and momentum
from the gravitational potentials (metric functions) to the first
post-Newtonian order. We follow the Landau-Liftshitz formalism to find out the
equation of motion for the moments and applying the standard coordinate
transformation for this theory, we write the traslational equation of motion.