We consider qualitative and quantitative verification problems for
infinite-state Markov chains. We call a Markov chain decisive w.r.t. a given
set of target states F if it almost certainly eventually reaches either F or a
state from which F can no longer be reached. While all finite Markov chains are
trivially decisive (for every set F), this also holds for many classes of
infinite Markov chains. Infinite Markov chains which contain a finite attractor
are decisive w.r.t. every set F. In particular, this holds for probabilistic
lossy channel systems (PLCS). Furthermore, all globally coarse Markov chains
are decisive. This class includes probabilistic vector addition systems (PVASS)
and probabilistic noisy Turing machines (PNTM). We consider both safety and
liveness problems for decisive Markov chains, i.e., the probabilities that a
given set of states F is eventually reached or reached infinitely often,
respectively. 1. We express the qualitative problems in abstract terms for
decisive Markov chains, and show an almost complete picture of its decidability
for PLCS, PVASS and PNTM. 2. We also show that the path enumeration algorithm
of Iyer and Narasimha terminates for decisive Markov chains and can thus be
used to solve the approximate quantitative safety problem. A modified variant
of this algorithm solves the approximate quantitative liveness problem. 3.
Finally, we show that the exact probability of (repeatedly) reaching F cannot
be effectively expressed (in a uniform way) in Tarski-algebra for either PLCS,
PVASS or (P)NTM.