Context. Icy dust grains play an important role in the formation of complex
inter- and circumstellar molecules. Observational studies show that polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are abundantly present in the ISM in the gas
phase. It is likely that these non-volatile species freeze out onto dust grains
as well and participate in the astrochemical solid-state network, but
experimental PAH ice studies are largely lacking. Methods. Near UV/VIS
spectroscopy is used to track the in situ VUV driven photochemistry of pyrene
containing ices at temperatures ranging from 10 to 125 K. Results. The main
photoproducts of VUV photolyzed pyrene ices are spectroscopically identified
and their band positions are listed for two host ices, \water and CO. Pyrene
ionisation is found to be most efficient in \water ices at low temperatures.
The reaction products, triplet pyrene and the 1-hydro-1-pyrenyl radical are
most efficiently formed in higher temperature water ices and in low temperature
CO ice. Formation routes and band strength information of the identified
species are discussed. Additionally, the oscillator strengths of Py, Py^+ and
PyH are derived and a quantitative kinetic analysis is performed by fitting a
chemical reaction network to the experimental data. Conclusions. Pyrene is
efficiently ionised in water ice at temperatures below 50 K. Hydrogenation
reactions dominate the chemistry in low temperature CO ice with trace amounts
of water. The results are put in an astrophysical context by determining the
importance of PAH ionisation in a molecular cloud. The photoprocessing of a
sample PAH in ice described in this manuscript indicates that PAH
photoprocessing in the solid state should also be taken into account in
astrochemical models.