The monodromy transform and corresponding integral equation method described
here give rise to a general systematic approach for solving integrable
reductions of field equations for gravity coupled bosonic dynamics in string
gravity and supergravity in four and higher dimensions. For different types of
fields in space-times of $D\ge 4$ dimensions with $d=D-2$ commuting isometries
-- stationary fields with spatial symmetries, interacting waves or partially
inhomogeneous cosmological models, the string gravity equations govern the
dynamics of interacting gravitational, dilaton, antisymmetric tensor and any
number $n\ge 0$ of Abelian vector gauge fields (all depending only on two
coordinates). The equivalent spectral problem constructed earlier allows to
parameterize the infinite-dimensional space of local solutions of these
equations by two pairs of \cal{arbitrary} coordinate-independent holomorphic
$d\times d$- and $d\times n$- matrix functions ${\mathbf{u}_\pm(w),
\mathbf{v}_\pm(w)}$ of a spectral parameter $w$ which constitute a complete set
of monodromy data for normalized fundamental solution of this spectral problem.
The "direct" and "inverse" problems of such monodromy transform --- calculating
the monodromy data for any local solution and constructing the field
configurations for any chosen monodromy data always admit unique solutions. We
construct the linear singular integral equations which solve the inverse
problem. For any \emph{rational} and \emph{analytically matched} (i.e.
$\mathbf{u}_+(w)\equiv\mathbf{u}_-(w)$ and
$\mathbf{v}_+(w)\equiv\mathbf{v}_-(w)$) monodromy data the solution for string
gravity equations can be found explicitly. Simple reductions of the space of
monodromy data leads to the similar constructions for solving of other
integrable symmetry reduced gravity models, e.g. 5D minimal supergravity or
vacuum gravity in $D\ge 4$ dimensions.