The $k$-set agreement problem is a generalization of the consensus problem.
Namely, assuming each process proposes a value, each non-faulty process has to
decide a value such that each decided value was proposed, and no more than $k$
different values are decided. This is a hard problem in the sense that it
cannot be solved in asynchronous systems as soon as $k$ or more processes may
crash. One way to circumvent this impossibility consists in weakening its
termination property, requiring that a process terminates (decides) only if it
executes alone during a long enough period. This is the well-known
obstruction-freedom progress condition. Considering a system of $n$ {\it
anonymous asynchronous} processes, which communicate through atomic {\it
read/write registers only}, and where {\it any number of processes may crash},
this paper addresses and solves the challenging open problem of designing an
obstruction-free $k$-set agreement algorithm with $(n-k+1)$ atomic registers
only. From a shared memory cost point of view, this algorithm is the best
algorithm known so far, thereby establishing a new upper bound on the number of
registers needed to solve the problem (its gain is $(n-k)$ with respect to the
previous upper bound). The algorithm is then extended to address the repeated
version of $(n,k)$-set agreement. As it is optimal in the number of atomic
read/write registers, this algorithm closes the gap on previously established
lower/upper bounds for both the anonymous and non-anonymous versions of the
repeated $(n,k)$-set agreement problem. Finally, for $1 \leq x\leq k
\textless{} n$, a generalization suited to $x$-obstruction-freedom is also
described, which requires $(n-k+x)$ atomic registers only.