A theory for non-equilibrium systems is derived from a maximum entropy
approach similar in spirit to the equilibrium theory given by Gibbs. Requiring
Hamilton's principle of stationary action to be satisfied on average during a
trajectory, we add constraints on the transition probability distribution which
lead to a path probability of the Onsager-Machlup form. Additional constraints
derived from energy and momentum conservation laws then introduce heat exchange
and external driving forces into the system, with Lagrange multipliers related
to the temperature and pressure of an external thermostatic system. The result
is a fully time-dependent, non-local description of a nonequilibrium ensemble.
Detailed accounting of the energy exchange and the change in information
entropy of the central system then provides a description of the entropy
production which is not dependent on the specification or existence of a
steady-state or on any definition of thermostatic variables for the central
system. These results are connected to the literature by showing a method for
path re-weighting, creation of arbitrary fluctuation theorems, and by providing
a simple derivation of Jarzynski relations referencing a steady-state. In
addition, we identify path free energy and entropy (caliber) functionals which
generate a first law of nonequilibrium thermodynamics by relating changes in
the driving forces to changes in path averages. Analogous to the Gibbs
relations, the variations in the path averages yield fluctuation-dissipation
theorems. The thermodynamic entropy production can also be stated in terms of
the caliber functional, resulting in a simple proof of our microscopic form for
the Clausius statement. We find that the maximum entropy route provides a clear
derivation of the path free energy functional, path-integral, Langevin,
Brownian, and Fokker-Planck statements of nonequilibrium processes.