We improve and generalize a resummation method of post-Newtonian multipolar
waveforms from circular compact binaries introduced in Refs.
\cite{Damour:2007xr,Damour:2007yf}. One of the characteristic features of this
resummation method is to replace the usual {\it additive} decomposition of the
standard post-Newtonian approach by a {\it multiplicative} decomposition of the
complex multipolar waveform $h_{\lm}$ into several (physically motivated)
factors: (i) the "Newtonian" waveform, (ii) a relativistic correction coming
from an "effective source", (iii) leading-order tail effects linked to
propagation on a Schwarzschild background, (iv) a residual tail dephasing, and
(v) residual relativistic amplitude corrections $f_{\lm}$. We explore here a
new route for resumming $f_{\lm}$ based on replacing it by its $\ell$-th root:
$\rho_{\lm}=f_{\lm}^{1/\ell}$. In the extreme-mass-ratio case, this resummation
procedure results in a much better agreement between analytical and numerical
waveforms than when using standard post-Newtonian approximants. We then show
that our best approximants behave in a robust and continuous manner as we
"deform" them by increasing the symmetric mass ratio $\nu\equiv m_1
m_2/(m_1+m_2)^2$ from 0 (extreme-mass-ratio case) to 1/4 (equal-mass case). The
present paper also completes our knowledge of the first post-Newtonian
corrections to multipole moments by computing ready-to-use explicit expressions
for the first post-Newtonian contributions to the odd-parity (current)
multipoles.