Nowadays, land covers are evaluated and classified with general features
based in the reflectance or digital levels of the photographical or satellite
supplies. One of the most utilized methodologies in the world such as CORINE
LAND COVER, classifies natural coverages with bulk stratifications. Thus, an
exaggerated generalization is used (as palm groves, tall dense mangroves and
dense forests, between others) and important floristic and structural
information from the vegetation types present in the areas is omitted. This
sacrifices information on site heterogeneity and diversity, especially in the
pantropic. The generalization of the coverage types reaches its maximum level
in the deforestation analysis in the world when considering and evaluating many
times two classes: Forests vs. Non Forests, situation that as demonstrated in
this contribution, brings serious consequences in conservation politics of
megadiverse countries. We designed a new methodological route incorporating
biological distinctiveness; phytosociological classification of vegetation and
its relation to physical characteristics of the territory. It is based on the
use of parameters obtained by a Canonical Correspondence Analysis on a Fuzzy
Logic Model that allows the production of multiple coverage maps. This tool is
suitable for monitoring and analysing vegetation dynamics since it maintains
the typological integrity of a cartographic series. Therefore, our methodology
allows to find cartographic series congruent in time and scale, and can be
applied to multiple and different satellite inputs. The same model parameters
are always evaluated. In the present contribution we use the example of the
implementation of the method in the south-western Colombian Caribbean region.
We compared our results with forefront tools used in the analysis of
deforestation in the world.