Newton's problem of minimal resistance is one of the first problems of
optimal control: it was proposed, and its solution given, by Isaac Newton in
his masterful Principia Mathematica, in 1686. The problem consists of
determining, in dimension three, the shape of an axis-symmetric body, with
assigned radius and height, which offers minimum resistance when it is moving
in a resistant medium. The problem has a very rich history and is well
documented in the literature. Of course, at first glance, one suspects that the
two dimensional case should be well known. Nevertheless, we have looked into
numerous references and ask at least as many experts on the problem, and we
have not been able to identify a single source. Solution was always plausible
to everyone who thought about the problem, and writing it down was always
thought not to be worthwhile. Here we show that this is not the case: the
two-dimensional problem is more rich than the classical one, being, in some
sense, more interesting. Novelties include: (i) while in the classical
three-dimensional problem only the restricted case makes sense (without
restriction on the monotonicity of admissible functions the problem doesn't
admit a local minimum), we prove that in dimension two the unrestricted problem
is also well-posed when the ratio height versus radius of base is greater than
a given quantity; (ii) while in three dimensions the (restricted) problem has a
unique solution, we show that in the restricted two-dimensional problem the
minimizer is not always unique - when the height of the body is less or equal
than its base radius, there exists infinitely many minimizing functions.