We study constraint satisfaction problems (CSPs) in the presence of counting
quantifiers $\exists^{\geq j}$, asserting the existence of $j$ distinct
witnesses for the variable in question. As a continuation of our previous (CSR
2012) paper, we focus on the complexity of undirected graph templates. As our
main contribution, we settle the two principal open questions proposed in (CSR
2012). Firstly, we complete the classification of clique templates by proving a
full trichotomy for all possible combinations of counting quantifiers and
clique sizes, placing each case either in P, NP-complete or Pspace-complete.
This involves resolution of the cases in which we have the single quantifier
$\exists^{\geq j}$ on the clique $K_{2j}$. Secondly, we confirm a conjecture
from (CSR 2012), which proposes a full dichotomy for $\exists$ and
$\exists^{\geq 2}$ on all finite undirected graphs. The main thrust of this
second result is the solution of the complexity for the infinite path which we
prove is a polynomial-time solvable problem. By adapting the algorithm for the
infinite path we are then able to solve the problem for finite paths, and then
trees and forests. Thus as a corollary to this work, combining with the other
cases from (CSR 2012), we obtain a full dichotomy for $\exists$ and
$\exists^{\geq 2}$ quantifiers on finite graphs, each such problem being either
in P or NP-hard. Finally, we persevere with the work of (CSR 2012) in exploring
cases in which there is dichotomy between P and Pspace-complete, in contrast
with situations in which the intermediate NP-completeness may appear.