With technology scaling down, hundreds and thousands processing elements
(PEs) can be integrated on a single chip. Network-on-chip (NoC) has been
proposed as an efficient solution to handle this distinctive challenge. In this
thesis, we have explored the high performance NoC design for MPSoC and CMP
structures from the performance modeling in the offline design phase to the
routing algorithm and NoC architecture optimization. More specifically, we
first deal with the issue of how to estimate an NoC design fast and accurately
in the synthesis inner loop. For this purpose, we propose a machine learning
based latency regression model to evaluate the NoC designs with respect to
different configurations. Then, for high performance NoC designs, we tackle one
of the most important problems, i.e., the routing algorithms design. For
avoiding temperature hotspots, a thermal-aware routing algorithm is proposed to
achieve an even temperature profile for application-specific Network-on-chips
(NoCs). For improving the reliability, a routing algorithm to achieve maximum
performance under fault is proposed. Finally, in the architecture level, we
propose two new NoC structures using bi-directional links for the performance
optimization. In particular, we propose a flit-level speedup scheme to enhance
the network-on-chip(NoC) performance utilizing bidirectional channels. We also
propose a flexible NoC architecture which takes advantage of a dynamic
distributed routing algorithm and improves the NoC communication performance
with moderate energy overhead. From the simulation results on both synthetic
traffic and real workload traces, significant performance improvement in terms
of latency and throughput can be achieved.