Manipulation is a problem of fundamental importance in the context of voting
in which the voters exercise their votes strategically instead of voting
honestly to prevent selection of an alternative that is less preferred. The
Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem shows that there is no strategy-proof voting rule
that simultaneously satisfies certain combinations of desirable properties.
Researchers have attempted to get around the impossibility results in several
ways such as domain restriction and computational hardness of manipulation.
However these approaches have been shown to have limitations. Since prevention
of manipulation seems to be elusive, an interesting research direction
therefore is detection of manipulation. Motivated by this, we initiate the
study of detection of possible manipulators in an election.
  We formulate two pertinent computational problems - Coalitional Possible
Manipulators (CPM) and Coalitional Possible Manipulators given Winner (CPMW),
where a suspect group of voters is provided as input to compute whether they
can be a potential coalition of possible manipulators. In the absence of any
suspect group, we formulate two more computational problems namely Coalitional
Possible Manipulators Search (CPMS), and Coalitional Possible Manipulators
Search given Winner (CPMSW). We provide polynomial time algorithms for these
problems, for several popular voting rules. For a few other voting rules, we
show that these problems are in NP-complete. We observe that detecting
manipulation maybe easy even when manipulation is hard, as seen for example, in
the case of the Borda voting rule.