The Fiber Optical Cable and Connector System (FOCCoS), provides optical
connection between 2400 positioners and a set of spectrographs through optical
fibers cables as part of PFS instrument for Subaru telescope. The optical fiber
cable will be segmented in 3 parts along the route, cable A, cable B and cable
C, connected by a set of multi-fiber connectors. The company USCONEC produces
the multi-fiber connector under study. The USCONEC 32F model can connect 32
optical fibers in a 4 x 8 matrix arrangement. The ferrules are made of a
durable composite, Polyphenylene Sulfide (PPS) based thermoplastic. The
connections are held in place by a push-on/pull-off latch, and the connector
can also be distinguished by a pair of metal guide pins that protrude from the
front of the connector. Two fibers per connector will be used for monitoring
the connection procedure. It was found to be easy to polish and it is small
enough to be mounted in groups. Highly multiplexed instruments like PFS require
a fiber connector system that can deliver excellent optical performance and
reliability. PFS requires two different types of structures to organize the
connectors. The Tower Connector system, with 80 multi-fiber connectors, will be
a group of connectors for connecting cable B (Telescope Structure) with cable C
(Positioners Plate). The Gang Connector system is a group of 8 gang connectors,
each one with 12 multi-fibers connectors, for connecting cable B (Telescope
Structure) with cable A (Spectrograph). The bench tests with these connector
systems and the chosen fibers should measure the throughput of light and the
stability after many connections and disconnections. In this paper we describe
tests and procedures to evaluate the throughput and FRD increment. The lifetime
of the ferrules is also in evaluation.