Cooperation between the nodes of wireless multihop networks can increase
communication reliability, reduce energy consumption, and decrease latency. The
possible improvements are even greater when nodes perform mutual information
accumulation using rateless codes. In this paper, we investigate routing
problems in such networks. Given a network, a source, and a destination, our
objective is to minimize end-to-end transmission delay under energy and
bandwidth constraints. We provide an algorithm that determines which nodes
should participate in forwarding the message and what resources (time, energy,
bandwidth) should be allocated to each.
  Our approach factors into two sub-problems, each of which can be solved
efficiently. For any transmission order we show that solving for the optimum
resource allocation can be formulated as a linear programming problem. We then
show that the transmission order can be improved systematically by swapping
nodes based on the solution of the linear program. Solving a sequence of linear
programs leads to a locally optimal solution in a very efficient manner. In
comparison to the proposed cooperative routing solution, it is observed that
conventional shortest path multihop routing typically incurs additional delays
and energy expenditures on the order of 70%.
  Our first algorithm is centralized, assuming that routing computations can be
done at a central processor with full access to channel state information for
the entire system. We also design two distributed routing algorithms that
require only local channel state information. We provide simulations showing
that for the same networks the distributed algorithms find routes that are only
about two to five percent less efficient than the centralized algorithm.