Motivated by issues of saving energy in data centers we define a collection
of new problems referred to as "machine activation" problems. The central
framework we introduce considers a collection of $m$ machines (unrelated or
related) with each machine $i$ having an {\em activation cost} of $a_i$. There
is also a collection of $n$ jobs that need to be performed, and $p_{i,j}$ is
the processing time of job $j$ on machine $i$. We assume that there is an
activation cost budget of $A$ -- we would like to {\em select} a subset $S$ of
the machines to activate with total cost $a(S) \le A$ and {\em find} a schedule
for the $n$ jobs on the machines in $S$ minimizing the makespan (or any other
metric).
  For the general unrelated machine activation problem, our main results are
that if there is a schedule with makespan $T$ and activation cost $A$ then we
can obtain a schedule with makespan $\makespanconstant T$ and activation cost
$\costconstant A$, for any $\epsilon >0$. We also consider assignment costs for
jobs as in the generalized assignment problem, and using our framework, provide
algorithms that minimize the machine activation and the assignment cost
simultaneously. In addition, we present a greedy algorithm which only works for
the basic version and yields a makespan of $2T$ and an activation cost $A
(1+\ln n)$.
  For the uniformly related parallel machine scheduling problem, we develop a
polynomial time approximation scheme that outputs a schedule with the property
that the activation cost of the subset of machines is at most $A$ and the
makespan is at most $(1+\epsilon) T$ for any $\epsilon >0$.