One-counter MDPs (OC-MDPs) and one-counter simple stochastic games (OC-SSGs)
are 1-player, and 2-player turn-based zero-sum, stochastic games played on the
transition graph of classic one-counter automata (equivalently, pushdown
automata with a 1-letter stack alphabet). A key objective for the analysis and
verification of these games is the termination objective, where the players aim
to maximize (minimize, respectively) the probability of hitting counter value
0, starting at a given control state and given counter value. Recently, we
studied qualitative decision problems ("is the optimal termination value = 1?")
for OC-MDPs (and OC-SSGs) and showed them to be decidable in P-time (in NP and
coNP, respectively). However, quantitative decision and approximation problems
("is the optimal termination value ? p", or "approximate the termination value
within epsilon") are far more challenging. This is so in part because optimal
strategies may not exist, and because even when they do exist they can have a
highly non-trivial structure. It thus remained open even whether any of these
quantitative termination problems are computable. In this paper we show that
all quantitative approximation problems for the termination value for OC-MDPs
and OC-SSGs are computable. Specifically, given a OC-SSG, and given epsilon >
0, we can compute a value v that approximates the value of the OC-SSG
termination game within additive error epsilon, and furthermore we can compute
epsilon-optimal strategies for both players in the game. A key ingredient in
our proofs is a subtle martingale, derived from solving certain LPs that we can
associate with a maximizing OC-MDP. An application of Azuma's inequality on
these martingales yields a computable bound for the "wealth" at which a "rich
person's strategy" becomes epsilon-optimal for OC-MDPs.