In this work we propose a new method for investigating connection problems
for the class of nonlinear second-order differential equations known as the
Painlev{\'e} equations. Such problems can be characterized by the question as
to how the asymptotic behaviours of solutions are related as the independent
variable is allowed to pass towards infinity along different directions in
the complex plane. Connection problems have been previously tackled by a
variety of methods. Frequently these are based on the ideas of isomonodromic
deformation and the matching of WKB solutions. However, the implementation of
these methods often tends to be heuristic in nature and so the task of
rigorising the process is complicated. The method we propose here develops
uniform approximations to solutions. This removes the need to match
solutions, is rigorous, and can lead to the solution of connection problems
with minimal computational effort. Our method is reliant on finding uniform
approximations of differential equations of the generic form
${d^2\phi}/{d\eta^2} = - \xi^2F(\eta,\xi)\phi$ as the complex-valued
parameter $\xi \to \infty.$ The details of the treatment rely heavily on the
locations of the zeros of the function $F$ in this limit. If they are
isolated then a uniform approximation to solutions can be derived in terms of
Airy functions of suitable argument. On the other hand, if two of the zeros
of $F$ coalesce as $|\xi| \to \infty$ then an approximation can be derived in
terms of parabolic cylinder functions. In this paper we discuss both cases,
but illustrate our technique in action by applying the parabolic cylinder
case to the ``classical'' connection problem associated with the second
Painlev{\'e} transcendent. Future papers will show how the technique can be
applied with very little change to the other Painlev{\'e} equations, and to
the wider problem of the asymptotic behaviour of the general solution to any
of these equations.