Pyramidal metamaterials are currently developed for ultra-broadband
absorbers. They consist of periodic arrays of alternating metal/dielectric
layers forming truncated square-based pyramids. The metallic layers of
increasing lengths play the role of vertically and, to a less extent, laterally
coupled plasmonic resonators. Based on detailed numerical simulations, we
demonstrate that plasmon hybridization between such resonators helps in
achieving ultra-broadband absorption. The dipolar modes of individual
resonators are shown to be prominent in the electromagnetic coupling mechanism.
Lateral coupling between adjacent pyramids and vertical coupling between
alternating layers are proven to be key parameters for tuning of plasmon
hybridization. Following optimization, the operational bandwidth of Au/Ge
pyramids, i.e. the bandwidth within which absorption is higher than 90%,
extends over a 0.2-5.8 micrometers wavelength range, i.e. from UV-visible to
mid-infrared, and total absorption (integrated over the operational bandwidth)
amounts to 98.0%. The omni-directional and polarization-independent
high-absorption properties of the device are verified. Moreover, we show that
the choice of the dielectric layer material (Si versus Ge) is not critical for
achieving ultra-broadband characteristics, which confers versatility for both
design and fabrication. Realistic fabrication scenarios are briefly discussed.
This plasmon hybridization route could be useful in developing photothermal
devices, thermal emitters or shielding devices that dissimulate objects from
near infrared detectors.