We propose to use alternative cosmic tracers to measure the dark energy
equation of state and the matter content of the Universe [w(z) & Omega_m]. Our
proposed method consists of two components: (a) tracing the Hubble relation
using HII galaxies which can be detected up to very large redshifts, z~4, as an
alternative to supernovae type Ia, and (b) measuring the clustering pattern of
X-ray selected AGN at a median redshift of z~1. Each component of the method
can in itself provide interesting constraints on the cosmological parameters,
especially under our anticipation that we will reduce the corresponding random
and systematic errors significantly. However, by joining their likelihood
functions we will be able to put stringent cosmological constraints and break
the known degeneracies between the dark energy equation of state (whether it is
constant or variable) and the matter content of the universe and provide a
powerful and alternative route to measure the contribution to the global
dynamics and the equation of state of dark energy. A preliminary joint analysis
of X-ray selected AGN (based on the largest to-date XMM survey; the 2XMM) and
the currently largest SNIa sample (Hicken et al.), using as priors a flat
universe and the WMAP5 normalization of the power-spectrum, provides:
Omega_m=0.27+-0.02 and w=-0.96+-0.07. Equivalent and consistent results are
provided by the joint analysis of X-ray selected AGN clustering and the latest
Baryonic Acoustic Oscillation measures, providing: Omega_m=0.27+-0.02 and
w=-0.97+-0.04.