The influence of speed limits on roadway safety has been a subject of
continuous debate in the State of Indiana and nationwide. In Indiana,
highway-related accidents result in about 900 fatalities and forty thousand
injuries annually and place an incredible social and economic burden on the
state. Still, speed limits posted on highways and other roads are routinely
exceeded as individual drivers try to balance safety, mobility (speed), and the
risks and penalties associated with law enforcement efforts. The
speed-limit/safety issue has been a matter of considerable concern in Indiana
since the state raised its speed limits on rural interstates and selected
multilane highways on July 1, 2005. In this paper, the influence of the posted
speed limit on the severity of vehicle accidents is studied using Indiana
accident data from 2004 (the year before speed limits were raised) and 2006
(the year after speed limits were raised on rural interstates and some
multi-lane non-interstate routes). Statistical models of the injury severity of
different types of accidents on various roadway classes were estimated. The
results of the model estimations showed that, for the speed limit ranges
currently used, speed limits did not have a statistically significant effect on
the severity of accidents on interstate highways. However, for some
non-interstate highways, higher speed limits were found to be associated with
higher accident severities - suggesting that future speed limit changes, on
non-interstate highways in particular, need to be carefully assessed on a
case-by-case basis.