The motion of a point mass in the J2 problem is generalized to that of a
rigid body in a J2 gravity field. Different with the original J2 problem, the
gravitational orbit-rotation coupling of the rigid body is considered in this
generalized problem. The linear stability of the classical type of relative
equilibria of the rigid body, which have been obtained in our previous paper,
is studied in the framework of geometric mechanics with the second-order
gravitational potential. Non-canonical Hamiltonian structure of the problem,
i.e., Poisson tensor, Casimir functions and equations of motion, are obtained
through a Poisson reduction process by means of the symmetry of the problem.
The linear system matrix at the relative equilibria is given through the
multiplication of the Poisson tensor and Hessian matrix of the variational
Lagrangian. Based on the characteristic equation of the linear system matrix,
the conditions of linear stability of the relative equilibria are obtained.
With the stability conditions obtained, the linear stability of the relative
equilibria is investigated in details in a wide range of the parameters of the
gravity field and the rigid body. We find that both the zonal harmonic J2 and
the characteristic dimension of the rigid body have significant effects on the
linear stability. Similar to the attitude stability in a central gravity field,
the linear stability region is also consisted of two regions that are analogues
of the Lagrange region and the DeBra-Delp region. Our results are very useful
for the studies on the motion of natural satellites in our solar system.