We consider the problem $\mathbf{P_{curve}}$ of minimizing $\int \limits_0^L
\sqrt{\xi^2 + \kappa^2(s)} \, {\rm d}s$ for a curve $\mathbf{x}$ on $\mathbb R$
with fixed boundary points and directions. Here the total length $L\geq 0$ is
free, $s$ denotes the arclength parameter, $\kappa$ denotes the absolute
curvature of $\mathbf{x}$, and $\xi>0$ is constant. We lift problem
$\mathbf{P_{curve}}$ on $\mathbb R^3$ to a sub-Riemannian problem
$\mathbf{P_{mec}}$ on $\operatorname{SE(3)}\nolimits/(\{\mathbf{0}\}\times
\operatorname{SO(2)}\nolimits)$. Here, for admissible boundary conditions, the
spatial projections of sub-Riemannian geodesics do not exhibit cusps and they
solve problem $\mathbf{P_{curve}}$. We apply the Pontryagin Maximum Principle
(PMP) and prove Liouville integrability of the Hamiltonian system. We derive
explicit analytic formulas for such sub-Riemannian geodesics, relying on the
co-adjoint orbit structure, an underlying Cartan connection, and the matrix
representation of $\operatorname{SE(3)}\nolimits$ arising in the Cartan-matrix.
These formulas allow us to extract geometrical properties of the sub-Riemannian
geodesics with cuspless projection, such as planarity conditions, explicit
bounds on their torsion, and their symmetries. Furthermore, they allow us to
parameterize all admissible boundary conditions reachable by geodesics with
cuspless spatial projection. Such projections lay in the upper half space. We
prove this for most cases, and the rest is checked numerically. Finally, we
employ the formulas to numerically solve the boundary value problem, and
visualize the set of admissible boundary conditions.