One of the crucial steps in the design of an integrated circuit is the
minimization of heating and temperature non-uniformity. Current temperature
calculation methods, such as finite element analysis and resistor networks have
considerable computation times, making them incompatible for use in routing and
placement optimization algorithms. In an effort to reduce the computation time,
we have developed a new method, deemed power blurring, for calculating
temperature distributions using a matrix convolution technique in analogy with
image blurring. For steady state analysis, power blurring was able to predict
hot spot temperatures within 1 degree C with computation times 3 orders of
magnitude faster than FEA. For transient analysis the computation times where
enhanced by a factor of 1000 for a single pulse and around 100 for multiple
frequency application, while predicting hot spot temperature within about 1
degree C. The main strength of the power blurring technique is that it exploits
the dominant heat spreading in the silicon substrate and it uses superposition
principle. With one or two finite element simulations, the temperature point
spread function for a sophisticated package can be calculated. Additional
simulations could be used to improve the accuracy of the point spread function
in different locations on the chip. In this calculation, we considered the
dominant heat transfer path through the back of the IC chip and the heat sink.
Heat transfer from the top of the chip through metallization layers and the
board is usually a small fraction of the total heat dissipation and it is
neglected in this analysis.