We study the electronic properties of strongly spin-orbit coupled electrons
on the elastic pyrochlore lattice. Akin to the Peierls transition in
one-dimensional systems, the coupling of the lattice to the electronic degrees
of freedom can stabilize a spontaneous deformation of the crystal. This
deformation corresponds to a breathing mode, which breaks the inversion
symmetry. We find that for intermediate values of the staggered strain, the
inversion-symmetry broken phase realizes a topological Weyl semimetal. In the
temperature-elasticity phase diagram, the Weyl semimetal shows a reentrant
phase behavior: it can be reached from a symmetric phase realized both at
higher and at lower temperatures. The symmetric phase is a Dirac semimetal,
which is protected by the non-symmorphic space group of the pyrochlore lattice.
Beyond a critical value of the staggered strain, the symmetry-broken phase is a
fully gapped trivial insulator. The surface states of the Weyl semimetal form
open Fermi arcs and we observe that their connectivity depends on the
termination of the crystal. In particular, for the $\{111\}$ films, the
semiclassical closed electronic orbits of the surface states in a magnetic
field cross the bulk either twice, four, six or twelve times. We demonstrate
how one can tune the number of bulk crossings through a Lifshitz-like
transition of the Fermi arcs, which we call Weyl-Lifshitz transition, by
applying a surface potential. Our results offer a route to a topological Weyl
semimetal in nonmagnetic materials and might be relevant for pyrochlore oxides
with heavy transition-metal ions such as alloys of iridates.