Altenbernd, Thomas and W\"ohrle have considered in [ATW02] acceptance of
languages of infinite two-dimensional words (infinite pictures) by finite
tiling systems, with the usual acceptance conditions, such as the B\"uchi and
Muller ones, firstly used for infinite words. Many classical decision problems
are studied in formal language theory and in automata theory and arise now
naturally about recognizable languages of infinite pictures. We first review in
this paper some recent results of [Fin09b] where we gave the exact degree of
numerous undecidable problems for B\"uchi-recognizable languages of infinite
pictures, which are actually located at the first or at the second level of the
analytical hierarchy, and "highly undecidable". Then we prove here some more
(high) undecidability results. We first show that it is $\Pi_2^1$-complete to
determine whether a given B\"uchi-recognizable languages of infinite pictures
is unambiguous. Then we investigate cardinality problems. Using recent results
of [FL09], we prove that it is $D_2(\Sigma_1^1)$-complete to determine whether
a given B\"uchi-recognizable language of infinite pictures is countably
infinite, and that it is $\Sigma_1^1$-complete to determine whether a given
B\"uchi-recognizable language of infinite pictures is uncountable. Next we
consider complements of recognizable languages of infinite pictures. Using some
results of Set Theory, we show that the cardinality of the complement of a
B\"uchi-recognizable language of infinite pictures may depend on the model of
the axiomatic system ZFC. We prove that the problem to determine whether the
complement of a given B\"uchi-recognizable language of infinite pictures is
countable (respectively, uncountable) is in the class $\Sigma_3^1 \setminus
(\Pi_2^1 \cup \Sigma_2^1)$ (respectively, in the class $\Pi_3^1 \setminus
(\Pi_2^1 \cup \Sigma_2^1)$).