This work considers the problem of locating a single source from noisy range
measurements to a set of nodes in a wireless sensor network. We propose two new
techniques that we designate as Source Localization with Nuclear Norm (SLNN)
and Source Localization with l1-norm (SL-l1), which extend to arbitrary real
dimensions, including 3D, our prior work on 2D source localization formulated
in the complex plane. Broadly, our approach is based on formulating a
Maximum-Likelihood (ML) estimation problem for the source position, and then
using convex relaxation techniques to obtain a semidefinite program (SDP) that
can be globally and efficiently solved. SLNN directly approximates the Gaussian
ML solution, and the relaxation is shown to be tighter than in other methods in
the same class. We present an analysis of the convexity properties of the
constraint set for the 2D complex version of SLNN (SLCP) to justify the
observed tightness of the relaxation. In terms of global accuracy of
localization, SLNN outperforms state-of-the-art optimization-based methods with
either iterative or closed-form formulations. We propose the SL-l1 algorithm to
address the Laplacian noise case, which models the presence of outliers in
range measurements. We overcome the nondifferentiability of the Laplacian
likelihood function by rewriting the ML problem as an exact weighted version of
the Gaussian case, and compare two solution strategies. One of them is
iterative, based on block coordinate descent, and uses SLNN as a subprocessing
block. The other, attaining only slightly worse performance, is noniterative
and based on an SDP relaxation of the weighted ML problem.