We consider {\it i)} the overhead minimization of maximum-distance separable
(MDS) storage codes for the repair of a single failed node and {\it ii)} the
total secure degrees-of-freedom (S-DoF) maximization in a multiple-access
compound wiretap channel. We show that the two problems are connected.
Specifically, the overhead minimization for a single node failure of an {\it
optimal} MDS code, i.e. one that can achieve the information theoretic overhead
minimum, is equivalent to maximizing the S-DoF in a multiple-access compound
wiretap channel. Additionally, we show that maximizing the S-DoF in a
multiple-access compound wiretap channel is equivalent to minimizing the
overhead of an MDS code for the repair of a departed node. An optimal MDS code
maps to a full S-DoF channel and a full S-DoF channel maps to an MDS code with
minimum repair overhead for one failed node. We also state a general framework
for code-to-channel and channel-to-code mappings and performance bounds between
the two settings. The underlying theme for all connections presented is
interference alignment (IA). The connections between the two problems become
apparent when we restate IA as an optimization problem. Specifically, we
formulate the overhead minimization and the S-DoF maximization as rank
constrained, sum-rank and max-rank minimization problems respectively. The
derived connections allow us to map repair strategies of recently discovered
repair codes to beamforming matrices and characterize the maximum S-DoF for the
single antenna multiple-access compound wiretap channel.