We demonstrate that the Weihrauch lattice can be used to study the uniform
computational content of computability theoretic properties and theorems in one
common setting. The properties that we study include diagonal
non-computability, hyperimmunity, complete extensions of Peano arithmetic,
1-genericity, Martin-L\"of randomness and cohesiveness. The theorems that we
include in our case study are the Low Basis Theorem of Jockusch and Soare, the
Kleene-Post Theorem and Friedman's Jump Inversion Theorem. It turns out that
all the aforementioned properties and many theorems in computability theory,
including all theorems that claim the existence of some Turing degree, have
very little uniform computational content. They are all located outside of the
upper cone of binary choice (also known as LLPO) and we call problems with this
property indiscriminative. Since practically all theorems from classical
analysis whose computational content has been classified are discriminative,
our observation could yield an explanation for why theorems and results in
computability theory typically have very little direct consequences in other
disciplines such as analysis. A notable exception in our case study is the Low
Basis Theorem which is discriminative, this is perhaps why it is considered to
be one of the most applicable theorems in computability theory. In some cases a
bridge between the indiscriminative world and the discriminative world of
classical mathematics can be established via a suitable residual operation and
we demonstrate this in case of the cohesiveness problem, which turns out to be
the quotient of two discriminative problems, namely the limit operation and the
jump of Weak K\H{o}nig's Lemma.