A key measure of performance and comfort in a road traffic network is the
travel time that the users of the network experience to complete their
journeys. Travel times on road traffic networks are stochastic, highly
variable, and dependent on several parameters. It is, therefore, necessary to
have good indicators and measures of their variations. In this article, we
extend a recent approach for the derivation of deterministic bounds on the
travel time in a road traffic network (Farhi, Haj-Salem and Lebacque 2013). The
approach consists in using an algebraic formulation of the cell-transmission
traffic model on a ring road, where the car-dynamics is seen as a linear
min-plus system. The impulse response of the system is derived analytically,
and is interpreted as what is called a service curve in the network calculus
theory (where the road is seen as a server). The basic results of the latter
theory are then used to derive an upper bound for the travel time through the
ring road.
  We consider in this article open systems rather than closed ones. We define a
set of elementary traffic systems and an operator for the concatenation of such
systems. We show that the traffic system of any road itinerary can be built by
concatenating a number of elementary traffic systems. The concatenation of
systems consists in giving a service guarantee of the resulting system in
function of service guarantees of the composed systems. We illustrate this
approach with a numerical example, where we compute an upper bound for the
travel time on a given route in a urban network.