We consider general pseudodifferential boundary value problems on a Lie
manifold with boundary. This is accomplished by constructing a suitable
generalization of the Boutet de Monvel calculus for boundary value problems.
The data consists of a compact manifold with corners $M$ which is endowed with
a Lie structure of vector fields $\mathcal{V}$, a so-called Lie manifold as
introduced by Bernd Ammann, Robert Lauter and Victor Nistor. The Lie manifold
$M$ is split into two equal parts $X_{+}$ and $X_{-}$ each of which are Lie
manifolds which intersect in an embedded hypersurface $Y \subset X_{\pm}$. In
this setup our goal is to describe a transmission Boutet de Monvel calculus for
boundary value problems. Starting with the example of $b$-vector fields we show
that there are two groupoids integrating the Lie structure on $M$ and $Y$
respectively which form a bimodule structure (a groupoid correspondence) and in
mild cases these groupoids are isomorphic inside the category of Lie groupoids
(Morita equivalent). With the help of the bimodule structure and canonically
defined manifolds with corners, which are blow-ups in particular cases, we
define a class of extended Boutet de Monvel operators. Then we describe the
restricted transmission Boutet de Monvel calculus by truncation of the extended
operators. We define the representation for restricted operators and show
closedness under composition with the help of an analog of the Ammann, Lauter,
Nistor representation theorem. Finally, we analyze the parametrix construction
and in the last section state the index problem for boundary value problems on
Lie manifolds.