The electronic properties of single- and multi-cation transparent conducting
oxides (TCOs) are investigated using first-principles density functional
approach. A detailed comparison of the electronic band structure of
stoichiometric and oxygen deficient In$_2$O$_3$, $\alpha$- and
$\beta$-Ga$_2$O$_3$, rock salt and wurtzite ZnO, and layered InGaZnO$_4$
reveals the role of the following factors which govern the transport and
optical properties of these TCO materials: (i) the crystal symmetry of the
oxides, including both the oxygen coordination and the long-range structural
anisotropy; (ii) the electronic configuration of the cation(s), specifically,
the type of orbital(s) -- $s$, $p$ or $d$ -- which form the conduction band;
and (iii) the strength of the hybridization between the cation's states and the
p-states of the neighboring oxygen atoms. The results not only explain the
experimentally observed trends in the electrical conductivity in the
single-cation TCO, but also demonstrate that multicomponent oxides may offer a
way to overcome the electron localization bottleneck which limits the charge
transport in wide-bandgap main-group metal oxides. Further, the advantages of
aliovalent substitutional doping -- an alternative route to generate carriers
in a TCO host -- are outlined based on the electronic band structure
calculations of Sn, Ga, Ti and Zr-doped InGaZnO$_4$. We show that the
transition metal dopants offer a possibility to improve conductivity without
compromising the optical transmittance.