We study the parameterized complexity of domination-type problems.
(sigma,rho)-domination is a general and unifying framework introduced by Telle:
a set D of vertices of a graph G is (sigma,rho)-dominating if for any v in D,
|N(v)\cap D| in sigma and for any $v\notin D, |N(v)\cap D| in rho. We mainly
show that for any sigma and rho the problem of (sigma,rho)-domination is W[2]
when parameterized by the size of the dominating set. This general statement is
optimal in the sense that several particular instances of
(sigma,rho)-domination are W[2]-complete (e.g. Dominating Set). We also prove
that (sigma,rho)-domination is W[2] for the dual parameterization, i.e. when
parameterized by the size of the dominated set. We extend this result to a
class of domination-type problems which do not fall into the
(sigma,rho)-domination framework, including Connected Dominating Set. We also
consider problems of coding theory which are related to domination-type
problems with parity constraints. In particular, we prove that the problem of
the minimal distance of a linear code over Fq is W[2] for both standard and
dual parameterizations, and W[1]-hard for the dual parameterization.
  To prove W[2]-membership of the domination-type problems we extend the
Turing-way to parameterized complexity by introducing a new kind of non
deterministic Turing machine with the ability to perform `blind' transitions,
i.e. transitions which do not depend on the content of the tapes. We prove that
the corresponding problem Short Blind Multi-Tape Non-Deterministic Turing
Machine is W[2]-complete. We believe that this new machine can be used to prove
W[2]-membership of other problems, not necessarily related to domination