Singlet pairing in a Fermi superfluid is frustrated when the amounts of
fermions of each pairing partner are unequal. The resulting `imbalanced
superfluid' has been realized experimentally for ultracold atomic gases with
s-wave interactions. Inspired by high-temperature superconductivity, we
investigate the case of d-wave interactions, and find marked differences from
the s-wave superfluid. Whereas s-wave imbalanced Fermi gases tend to phase
separate in real space, in a balanced condensate and an imbalanced normal halo,
we show that the d-wave gas can phase separate in reciprocal space so that
imbalance and superfluidity can coexist spatially. We show that the mechanism
explaining this property is the creation of polarized excitations in the nodes
of the gap. The Sarma mechanism, present only at nonzero temperatures for the
s-wave case, is still applicable in the temperature zero limit for the d-wave
case. As a result, the d-wave BCS superfluid is more robust with respect to
imbalance, and a region of the phase diagram can be identified where the s-wave
BCS superfluidity is suppressed whereas the d-wave superfluidity is not. When
these results are extended into the BEC limit of strongly bound molecules, the
symmetry of the order parameter matters less. The effects of fluctuations
beyond mean field is taken into account in the calculation of the structure
factor and the critical temperature. The poles of the structure factor
(corresponding to bound molecular states) are less damped in the d-wave case as
compared to s-wave. On the BCS side of the unitarity limit, the critical
temperature follows the temperature corresponding to the pair binding energy
and as such will also be more robust against imbalance. Possible routes for the
experimental observation of the d-wave superfluidity have been discussed.