We highlight some recent new delevelopments concerning the sparse
representation of possibly high-dimensional functions exhibiting strong
anisotropic features and low regularity in isotropic Sobolev or Besov scales.
Specifically, we focus on the solution of transport equations which exhibit
propagation of singularities where, additionally, high-dimensionality enters
when the convection field, and hence the solutions, depend on parameters
varying over some compact set. Important constituents of our approach are
directionally adaptive discretization concepts motivated by compactly supported
shearlet systems, and well-conditioned stable variational formulations that
support trial spaces with anisotropic refinements with arbitrary
directionalities. We prove that they provide tight error-residual relations
which are used to contrive rigorously founded adaptive refinement schemes which
converge in $L_2$. Moreover, in the context of parameter dependent problems we
discuss two approaches serving different purposes and working under different
regularity assumptions. For frequent query problems, making essential use of
the novel well-conditioned variational formulations, a new Reduced Basis Method
is outlined which exhibits a certain rate-optimal performance for indefinite,
unsymmetric or singularly perturbed problems. For the radiative transfer
problem with scattering a sparse tensor method is presented which mitigates or
even overcomes the curse of dimensionality under suitable (so far still
isotropic) regularity assumptions. Numerical examples for both methods
illustrate the theoretical findings.