For a set of graphs $\mathcal{H}$, the \textsc{$\mathcal{H}$-free Edge
Deletion} problem asks to find whether there exist at most $k$ edges in the
input graph whose deletion results in a graph without any induced copy of
$H\in\mathcal{H}$. In \cite{cai1996fixed}, it is shown that the problem is
fixed-parameter tractable if $\mathcal{H}$ is of finite cardinality. However,
it is proved in \cite{cai2013incompressibility} that if $\mathcal{H}$ is a
singleton set containing $H$, for a large class of $H$, there exists no
polynomial kernel unless $coNP\subseteq NP/poly$. In this paper, we present a
polynomial kernel for this problem for any fixed finite set $\mathcal{H}$ of
connected graphs and when the input graphs are of bounded degree. We note that
there are \textsc{$\mathcal{H}$-free Edge Deletion} problems which remain
NP-complete even for the bounded degree input graphs, for example
\textsc{Triangle-free Edge Deletion}\cite{brugmann2009generating} and
\textsc{Custer Edge Deletion($P_3$-free Edge
Deletion)}\cite{komusiewicz2011alternative}. When $\mathcal{H}$ contains
$K_{1,s}$, we obtain a stronger result - a polynomial kernel for $K_t$-free
input graphs (for any fixed $t> 2$). We note that for $s>9$, there is an
incompressibility result for \textsc{$K_{1,s}$-free Edge Deletion} for general
graphs \cite{cai2012polynomial}. Our result provides first polynomial kernels
for \textsc{Claw-free Edge Deletion} and \textsc{Line Edge Deletion} for
$K_t$-free input graphs which are NP-complete even for $K_4$-free
graphs\cite{yannakakis1981edge} and were raised as open problems in
\cite{cai2013incompressibility,open2013worker}.