TeV emission from BL Lacertae (BL) objects is commonly modeled as
Synchrotron-Self Compton (SSC) radiation from relativistically moving
homogeneous plasma blobs. In the context of these models, the blob Lorentz
factors needed to reproduce the corrected for absorption by the diffuse IR
background (DIRB) TeV emission are large ($\delta \gtrsim 50$). The main reason
for this is that stronger beaming eases the problem of the lack of $\sim$ IR-UV
synchrotron seed photons needed to produce the de-absorbed $\sim $ few TeV peak
of the spectral energy distribution (SED). However, such high Doppler factors
are in strong disagreement with the unified scheme, according to which BLs are
FR I radio galaxies with their jets closely aligned to the line of sight. Here,
motivated by the detection of sub-luminal velocities in the sub-pc scale jets
of the best studied TeV blazars, MKN 421 and MKN 501, we examine the
possibility that the relativistic flows in the TeV BLs decelerate. In this
case, the problem of the missing seed photons is solved because of Upstream
Compton (UC) scattering, a process in which the upstream energetic electrons
from the fast base of the flow `see' the synchrotron seed photons produced in
the slow part of the flow relativistically beamed. Modest Lorentz factors
($\Gamma \sim 15$), decelerating down to values compatible with the recent
radio interferometric observations, reproduce the $\sim $ few TeV peak energy
of these sources. Furthermore, such decelerating flows are shown to be in
agreement with the BL - FR I unification, naturally reproducing the observed
BL/FR I broad band luminosity ratios.