The {\sc $c$-Balanced Separator} problem is a graph-partitioning problem in
which given a graph $G$, one aims to find a cut of minimum size such that both
the sides of the cut have at least $cn$ vertices. In this paper, we present new
directions of progress in the {\sc $c$-Balanced Separator} problem. More
specifically, we propose a new family of mathematical programs, which depends
upon a parameter $\epsilon > 0$, and extend the seminal work of
Arora-Rao-Vazirani ({\sf ARV}) \cite{ARV} to show that the polynomial time
solvability of the proposed family of programs implies an improvement in the
approximation factor to $O(\log^{{1/3} + \epsilon} n)$ from the best-known
factor of $O(\sqrt{\log n})$ due to {\sf ARV}. In fact, for $\epsilon = 1/3$,
the program we get is the SDP proposed by {\sf ARV}. For $\epsilon < 1/3$, this
family of programs is not convex but one can transform them into so called
\emph{\textbf{concave programs}} in which one optimizes a concave function over
a convex feasible set. The properties of concave programs allows one to apply
techniques due to Hoffman \cite{H81} or Tuy \emph{et al} \cite{TTT85} to solve
such problems with arbitrary accuracy. But the problem of finding of a method
to solve these programs that converges in polynomial time still remains open.
Our result, although conditional, introduces a new family of programs which is
more powerful than semi-definite programming in the context of approximation
algorithms and hence it will of interest to investigate this family both in the
direction of designing efficient algorithms and proving hardness results.