We consider the problem of scheduling wireless links in the physical model,
where we seek an assignment of power levels and a partition of the given set of
links into the minimum number of subsets satisfying the
signal-to-interference-and-noise-ratio (SINR) constraints. Specifically, we are
interested in the efficiency of local power assignment schemes, or oblivious
power schemes, in approximating wireless scheduling. Oblivious power schemes
are motivated by networking scenarios when power levels must be decided in
advance, and not as part of the scheduling computation.
  We first show that the known algorithms fail to obtain sub-logarithmic
bounds; that is, their approximation ratio are $\tilde\Omega(\log
\max(\Delta,n))$, where $n$ is the number of links, $\Delta$ is the ratio of
the maximum and minimum link lengths, and $\tilde\Omega$ hides
doubly-logarithmic factors. We then present the first
$O(\log{\log\Delta})$-approximation algorithm, which is known to be best
possible (in terms of $\Delta$) for oblivious power schemes. We achieve this by
representing interference by a conflict graph, which allows the application of
graph-theoretic results for a variety of related problems, including the
weighted capacity problem. We explore further the contours of approximability,
and find the choice of power assignment matters; that not all metric spaces are
equal; and that the presence of weak links makes the problem harder. Combined,
our result resolve the price of oblivious power for wireless scheduling, or the
value of allowing unfettered power control.