The spin 1 particle is treated in the presence of the Dirac magnetic monopole
in the Minkowski and Lobachevsky spaces. Separating the variables in the frame
of the matrix 10-component Duffin-Kemer-Petiau approach (wave equation) and
making a nonrelativistic approximation in the corresponding radial equations, a
system of three coupled second order linear differential equations is derived
for each type of geometry. For the Minkowski space, the nonrelativistic
equations are disconnected using a linear transformation, which makes the
mixing matrix diagonal. The resultant three unconnected equations involve three
routs of a cubic algebraic equation as parameters. The approach allows
extension to the case of additional external spherically symmetric fields. The
Coulomb and oscillator potentials are considered and for each of these cases
three series of energy spectra are derived. A special attention is given to the
states with minimum value of the total angular momentum. In the case of the
curved background of the Lobachevsky geometry, the mentioned linear
transformation does not disconnect the nonrelativistic equations in the
presence of the monopole. Nevertheless, we derive the solution of the problem
in the case of minimum total angular momentum. In this case, we additionally
involve a Coulomb or oscillator field. Finally, considering the case without
the monopole field, we show that for both Coulomb and oscillator potentials the
problem is reduced to a system of three differential equations involving a
hypergeometric and two general Heun equations. Imposing on the parameters of
the latter equations a specific requirement, reasonable from the physical
standpoint, we derive the corresponding energy spectra.