The presence of methyl alcohol or methanol (CH$_3$OH) in several
astrophysical environments has been characterized by its high abundance that
depends on both the production rate and the destruction rate. In the present
work, the photoionization and photodissociation processes of methanol have been
experimentally studied, employing soft X-ray photons (100-310 eV) from a
toroidal grating monochromator (TGM) beamline of the Brazilian Synchrotron
Light Laboratory (LNLS). Mass spectra were obtained using the photoelectron
photoion coincidence (PEPICO) method. Kinetic energy distribution and
abundances for each ionic fragment have been obtained from the analysis of the
corresponding peak shapes in the mass spectra. Absolute photoionization and
photodissociation cross sections were also determined. We have found, among the
channels leading to ionization, about 11-16% of CH$_3$OH survive the soft
X-rays photons. This behavior, together with an efficient formation pathways,
may be associated with the high column density observed in star-forming
regions. The three main photodissociation pathways are represented by COH$^+$
(or HCO$^+$) ion release (with ejection of H$_2$ + H), the dissociation via C-O
bond rupture (with strong charge retention preferentially on the methyl
fragment) and the ejection of a single energetic (2-4 eV) proton. Since
methanol is very abundant in star forming regions, the produced protons could
be an alternative route to molecular hydrogenation or a trigger for secondary
dissociation processes or even to promote extra heating of the environment.