In Kleinberg's small-world network model, strong ties are modeled as
deterministic edges in the underlying base grid and weak ties are modeled as
random edges connecting remote nodes. The probability of connecting a node $u$
with node $v$ through a weak tie is proportional to $1/|uv|^\alpha$, where
$|uv|$ is the grid distance between $u$ and $v$ and $\alpha\ge 0$ is the
parameter of the model. Complex contagion refers to the propagation mechanism
in a network where each node is activated only after $k \ge 2$ neighbors of the
node are activated.
  In this paper, we propose the concept of routing of complex contagion (or
complex routing), where we can activate one node at one time step with the goal
of activating the targeted node in the end. We consider decentralized routing
scheme where only the weak ties from the activated nodes are revealed. We study
the routing time of complex contagion and compare the result with simple
routing and complex diffusion (the diffusion of complex contagion, where all
nodes that could be activated are activated immediately in the same step with
the goal of activating all nodes in the end).
  We show that for decentralized complex routing, the routing time is lower
bounded by a polynomial in $n$ (the number of nodes in the network) for all
range of $\alpha$ both in expectation and with high probability (in particular,
$\Omega(n^{\frac{1}{\alpha+2}})$ for $\alpha \le 2$ and
$\Omega(n^{\frac{\alpha}{2(\alpha+2)}})$ for $\alpha > 2$ in expectation),
while the routing time of simple contagion has polylogarithmic upper bound when
$\alpha = 2$. Our results indicate that complex routing is harder than complex
diffusion and the routing time of complex contagion differs exponentially
compared to simple contagion at sweetspot.