Computability logic is a formal theory of computational tasks and resources.
Formulas in it represent interactive computational problems, and "truth" is
understood as algorithmic solvability. Interactive computational problems, in
turn, are defined as a certain sort games between a machine and its
environment, with logical operators standing for operations on such games.
Within the ambitious program of finding axiomatizations for incrementally rich
fragments of this semantically introduced logic, the earlier article "From
truth to computability I" proved soundness and completeness for system CL3,
whose language has the so called parallel connectives (including negation),
choice connectives, choice quantifiers, and blind quantifiers. The present
paper extends that result to the significantly more expressive system CL4 with
the same collection of logical operators. What makes CL4 expressive is the
presence of two sorts of atoms in its language: elementary atoms, representing
elementary computational problems (i.e. predicates, i.e. problems of zero
degree of interactivity), and general atoms, representing arbitrary
computational problems. CL4 conservatively extends CL3, with the latter being
nothing but the general-atom-free fragment of the former. Removing the blind
(classical) group of quantifiers from the language of CL4 is shown to yield a
decidable logic despite the fact that the latter is still first-order. A
comprehensive online source on computability logic can be found at
http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~giorgi/cl.html