Given a closed, bounded convex set $\mathcal{W}\subset{\mathbb {R}}^d$ with
nonempty interior, we consider a control problem in which the state process $W$
and the control process $U$ satisfy \[W_t= w_0+\int_0^t\vartheta(W_s)
ds+\int_0^t\sigma(W_s) dZ_s+GU_t\in \mathcal{W},\qquad t\ge0,\] where $Z$ is a
standard, multi-dimensional Brownian motion, $\vartheta,\sigma\in
C^{0,1}(\mathcal{W})$, $G$ is a fixed matrix, and $w_0\in\mathcal{W}$. The
process $U$ is locally of bounded variation and has increments in a given
closed convex cone $\mathcal{U}\subset{\mathbb{R}}^p$. Given $g\in
C(\mathcal{W})$, $\kappa\in{\mathbb{R}}^p$, and $\alpha>0$, consider the
objective that is to minimize the cost
\[J(w_0,U)\doteq\mathbb{E}\biggl[\int_0^{\infty}e^{-\alpha s}g(W_s)
ds+\int_{[0,\infty)}e^{-\alpha s} d(\kappa\cdot U_s)\biggr]\] over the
admissible controls $U$. Both $g$ and $\kappa\cdot u$ ($u\in\mathcal{U}$) may
take positive and negative values. This paper studies the corresponding dynamic
programming equation (DPE), a second-order degenerate elliptic partial
differential equation of HJB-type with a state constraint boundary condition.
Under the controllability condition $G\mathcal{U}={\mathbb{R}}^d$ and the
finiteness of $\mathcal{H}(q)=\sup_{u\in\mathcal{U}_1}\{-Gu\cdot q-\kappa\cdot
u\}$, $q\in {\mathbb{R}}^d$, where $\mathcal{U}_1=\{u\in\mathcal{U}:|Gu|=1\}$,
we show that the cost, that involves an improper integral, is well defined. We
establish the following: (i) the value function for the control problem
satisfies the DPE (in the viscosity sense), and (ii) the condition
$\inf_{q\in{\mathbb{R}}^d}\mathcal{H}(q)<0$ is necessary and sufficient for
uniqueness of solutions to the DPE. The existence and uniqueness of solutions
are shown to be connected to an intuitive ``no arbitrage'' condition. Our
results apply to Brownian control problems that represent formal diffusion
approximations to control problems associated with stochastic processing
networks.