Given a network with a continuum of users at some origins, suppose that the
users wish to reach specific destinations, but that they are not indifferent to
the time needed to reach their destination. They may have several possibilities
(of routes or deparure time), but their choices modify the travel times on the
network. Hence, each user faces the following problem: given a pattern of
travel times for the different possible routes that reach the destination, find
a shortest path. The situation in a context of perfect information is a
so-called Nash equilibrium, and the question whether there is such an
equilibrium and of finding it if it exists is the so-called equilibrium
assignment problem. It arises for various kind of networks, such as computers,
communication or transportation network. When each user occupies permanently
the whole route from the origin to its destination, we call it the static
assignment problem, which has been extensively studied with pioneers works by
Wardrop or Beckmann. A less studied, but more realistic, and maybe more
difficult, problem is when the time needed to reach an arc is taken into
account. We speak then of a dynamic assignment problem. Several models have
been proposed. For some of them, the existence of an equilibrium has been
proved, but always under some technical assumptions or in a very special case
(a network with one arc for the case when the users may chose their departure
time). The present paper proposes a compact model, with minimal and natural
assumptions. For this model, we prove that there is always an equilibrium. To
our knowledge, this imply all previous results about existence of an
equilibrium for the dynamic assignment problem.