For scalar fully nonlinear partial differential equations depending on the
Hessian andspatial coordinates, we present a general theory for obtaining
comparison principles and well posedness for the associated Dirichlet problem
with continuous boundary data. In particular, we treat admissible viscosity
solutions of elliptic branches of the equation, where the nonlinearity need not
be monotone on all of the space of symmetric N by N matrices. An elliptic
branch (in the sense of Krylov, 1995) of the equation is encoded by a set
valued map from the coordinate domain into the elliptic subsets of the
symmetric matrices (an elliptic map). The nonlinearity will be monotone along
this map and the degenerate elliptic PDE is replaced by the a differential
inclusion. Weak solutions to such differential inclusions are defined by using
the notion given by Harvey-Lawson (2009) in a pointwise manner. If the elliptic
map is uniformly upper semicontinuous, we show that the comparison principle
holds for these weak solutions and that Perron's method yields a unique
continuous solution to the associated abstract Dirichlet problem provided that
the boundary is suitably convex with respect to the elliptic mapand its dual in
the sense of Harvey and Lawson. When the map encodes an elliptic branch of a
given PDE, these soluitions are shown to be admissible viscosity solutions of
the PDE problem. Various applications are described in terms of structural
conditions which ensure the existence of the needed elliptic map. Examples
include non-totally degenerate equations and equations involving the
eigenvalues of the Hessian and their perturbations. In certain situations, the
methods employed here will be shown to operate freely, while classical
viscosity approaches may not.