The evolution from wired system to the wireless environment opens a set of
challenge for the improvement of the wireless system performances because of
many of their weakness compared to wired networks. To achieve this goal, cross
layer techniques are used to facilitate the sharing of information between the
layers of the OSI model. In some precedent works, the Reverse Cross Layer (RCL)
method has been proposed to facilitate the design of cross layer conceptual
models. The method has the advantage to highlight the impact of each cross
layer interaction on each protocol in order to update its source code and to
describe the intuitive gains that can be achieve. The method may be applied to
a given protocol stack or to an existent cross layer model to integrate new
interactions. In this paper, we are applying the RCL method on the stack that
uses the Stream Control Transport Protocol (SCTP) at the transport layer and
the Optimized Link State Routing (OLSR) at the network layer. Cross layer
conceptual models are produced based on new cross layer interactions that are
proposed to populate the environment subsystem built with the application of
the RCL method. The improvement of the environment subsystem is specified
through the performance gains provide by the new interactions. The
implementation of the interactions that impact the SCTP protocol is described
in the Interaction Description Array. After the introduction, Section II of
this paper presents an overview of the SCTP protocol. Section III is related to
the overview of the OLSR protocol. Section IV is used for the application of
the RCL method and the different interaction arrays it generates. Section V
presents the improvement of the environment subsystem and the definition of the
performance gain of each Cross Layer Atomic Action (CLAA).