Accurate signal recovery or image reconstruction from indirect and possibly
undersampled data is a topic of considerable interest; for example, the
literature in the recent field of compressed sensing is already quite immense.
Inspired by recent breakthroughs in the development of novel first-order
methods in convex optimization, most notably Nesterov's smoothing technique,
this paper introduces a fast and accurate algorithm for solving common recovery
problems in signal processing. In the spirit of Nesterov's work, one of the key
ideas of this algorithm is a subtle averaging of sequences of iterates, which
has been shown to improve the convergence properties of standard
gradient-descent algorithms. This paper demonstrates that this approach is
ideally suited for solving large-scale compressed sensing reconstruction
problems as 1) it is computationally efficient, 2) it is accurate and returns
solutions with several correct digits, 3) it is flexible and amenable to many
kinds of reconstruction problems, and 4) it is robust in the sense that its
excellent performance across a wide range of problems does not depend on the
fine tuning of several parameters. Comprehensive numerical experiments on
realistic signals exhibiting a large dynamic range show that this algorithm
compares favorably with recently proposed state-of-the-art methods. We also
apply the algorithm to solve other problems for which there are fewer
alternatives, such as total-variation minimization, and convex programs seeking
to minimize the l1 norm of Wx under constraints, in which W is not diagonal.