Inverse problems are of great importance in astrophysics for deriving
information about the physical characteristics of hot optically thin plasma
sources from their EUV and X-ray spectra. We describe and test an iterative
method developed within the framework of a probabilistic approach to the
spectral inverse problem for determining the thermal structures of the emitting
plasma. We also demonstrate applications of this method to both high resolution
line spectra and broadband imaging data. Our so-called Bayesian iterative
method (BIM) is an iterative procedure based on Bayes' theorem and is used to
reconstruct differential emission measure (DEM) distributions. To demonstrate
the abilities of the BIM, we performed various numerical tests and model
simulations establishing its robustness and usefulness. We then applied the BIM
to observable data for several active regions (AR) previously analyzed with
other DEM diagnostic techniques: both SUMER/SOHO (Landi and Feldman, 2008) and
SPIRIT/CORONAS-F (Shestov et al., 2010) line spectra data, and XRT/Hinode
(Reale et al., 2009) broadband imaging data. The BIM results show that this
method is an effective tool for determining the thermal structure of emitting
plasma and can be successfully used for the DEM analysis of both line spectra
and broadband imaging data. The BIM calculations correlate with recent studies
confirming the existence of hot plasma in solar ARs. The BIM results also
indicate that the coronal plasma may have the continuous distributions
predicted by the nanoflare paradigm.