Generating high-quality schedules for a rotating workforce is a critical task
in all settings where a certain staffing level must be guaranteed beyond the
capacity of single employees, such as for instance in industrial plants,
hospitals, or airline companies. Results from ergonomics \cite{BEST91} indicate
that rotating workforce schedules have a profound impact on the health and
social life of employees as well as on their performance at work. Moreover,
rotating workforce schedules must satisfy legal requirements and should also
meet the objectives of the employing organization. We describe our solution to
this problem. A basic design decision was to aim at quickly obtaining
high-quality schedules for realistically sized problems while maintaining human
control. The interaction between the decision maker and the algorithm therefore
consists in four steps: (1) choosing a set of lengths of work blocks (a work
block is a sequence of consecutive days of work shifts), (2) choosing a
particular sequence of work and days-off blocks among those that have optimal
weekend characteristics, (3) enumerating possible shift sequences for the
chosen work blocks subject to shift change constraints and bounds on sequences
of shifts, and (4) assignment of shift sequences to work blocks while
fulfilling the staffing requirements. The combination of constraint
satisfaction and problem-oriented intelligent backtracking algorithms in each
of the four steps allows to find good solutions for real-world problems in
acceptable time. Computational results from real-world problems and from
benchmark examples found in the literature confirm the viability of our
approach. The algorithms are now part of a commercial shift scheduling software
package.