In this paper we study the Near-Gathering problem for a finite set of
dimensionless, deterministic, asynchronous, anonymous, oblivious and autonomous
mobile robots with limited visibility moving in the Euclidean plane in
Look-Compute-Move (LCM) cycles. In this problem, the robots have to get close
enough to each other, so that every robot can see all the others, without
touching (i.e., colliding with) any other robot. The importance of solving the
Near-Gathering problem is that it makes it possible to overcome the restriction
of having robots with limited visibility. Hence it allows to exploit all the
studies (the majority, actually) done on this topic in the unlimited visibility
setting. Indeed, after the robots get close enough to each other, they are able
to see all the robots in the system, a scenario that is similar to the one
where the robots have unlimited visibility.
  We present the first (deterministic) algorithm for the Near-Gathering
problem, to the best of our knowledge, which allows a set of autonomous mobile
robots to nearly gather within finite time without ever colliding. Our
algorithm assumes some reasonable conditions on the input configuration (the
Near-Gathering problem is easily seen to be unsolvable in general). Further,
all the robots are assumed to have a compass (hence they agree on the "North"
direction), but they do not necessarily have the same handedness (hence they
may disagree on the clockwise direction).
  We also show how the robots can detect termination, i.e., detect when the
Near-Gathering problem has been solved. This is crucial when the robots have to
perform a generic task after having nearly gathered. We show that termination
detection can be obtained even if the total number of robots is unknown to the
robots themselves (i.e., it is not a parameter of the algorithm), and robots
have no way to explicitly communicate.