This review discusses progress in efficient solvers which have as their
foundation a representation in real space, either through finite-difference or
finite-element formulations. The relationship of real-space approaches to
linear-scaling electrostatics and electronic structure methods is first
discussed. Then the basic aspects of real-space representations are presented.
Multigrid techniques for solving the discretized problems are covered; these
numerical schemes allow for highly efficient solution of the grid-based
equations. Applications to problems in electrostatics are discussed, in
particular numerical solutions of Poisson and Poisson-Boltzmann equations.
Next, methods for solving self-consistent eigenvalue problems in real space are
presented; these techniques have been extensively applied to solutions of the
Hartree-Fock and Kohn-Sham equations of electronic structure, and to eigenvalue
problems arising in semiconductor and polymer physics. Finally, real-space
methods have found recent application in computations of optical response and
excited states in time-dependent density functional theory, and these
computational developments are summarized. Multiscale solvers are competitive
with the most efficient available plane-wave techniques in terms of the number
of self-consistency steps required to reach the ground state, and they require
less work in each self-consistency update on a uniform grid. Besides excellent
efficiencies, the decided advantages of the real-space multiscale approach are
1) the near-locality of each function update, 2) the ability to handle global
eigenfunction constraints and potential updates on coarse levels, and 3) the
ability to incorporate adaptive local mesh refinements without loss of optimal
multigrid efficiencies.