Let F be a set of ordered patterns, i.e., graphs whose vertices are linearly
ordered. An F-free ordering of the vertices of a graph H is a linear ordering
of V(H) such that none of patterns in F occurs as an induced ordered subgraph.
We denote by ORD(F) the decision problem asking whether an input graph admits
an F-free ordering; we also use ORD(F) to denote the class of graphs that do
admit an F-free ordering. It was observed by Damaschke (and others) that many
natural graph classes can be described as ORD(F) for sets F of small patterns
(with three or four vertices). Damaschke also noted that for many sets F
consisting of patterns with three vertices, ORD(F) is polynomial-time solvable
by known algorithms or their simple modifications. We complete the picture by
proving that all these problems can be solved in polynomial time. In fact, we
provide a single master algorithm, i.e., we solve in polynomial time the
problem $ORD_3$ in which the input is a set F of patterns with at most three
vertices and a graph H, and the problem is to decide whether or not H admits an
F-free ordering of the vertices. Our algorithm certifies non-membership by a
forbidden substructure, and thus provides a single forbidden structure
characterization for all the graph classes described by some ORD(F) with F
consisting of patterns with at most three vertices. Many of the problems ORD(F)
with F consisting of larger patterns have been shown to be NP-complete by
Duffus, Ginn, and Rodl, and we add two simple examples.
  We also discuss a bipartite version of the problem, BORD(F), in which the
input is a bipartite graph H with a fixed bipartition of the vertices, and we
are given a set F of bipartite patterns. We also describe some examples of
digraph ordering problems and algorithms. We conjecture that for every set F of
forbidden patterns, ORD(F) is either polynomial or NP-complete.