We consider a class of optimization problems for sparse signal reconstruction
which arise in the field of Compressed Sensing (CS). A plethora of approaches
and solvers exist for such problems, for example GPSR, FPC AS, SPGL1, NestA,
$\ell_{1}_\ell_{s}$, PDCO to mention a few. Compressed Sensing applications
lead to very well conditioned optimization problems and therefore can be solved
easily by simple first-order methods. Interior point methods (IPMs) rely on the
Newton method hence they use the second-order information. They have numerous
advantageous features and one clear drawback: being the second-order approach
they need to solve linear equations and this operation has (in the general
dense case) an $O(n^3)$ computational complexity. Attempts have been made to
specialize IPMs to sparse reconstruction problems and they have led to
interesting developments implemented in $\ell_1\_\ell_s$ and PDCO softwares. We
go a few steps further. First, we use the matrix-free interior point method, an
approach which redesigns IPM to avoid the need to explicitly formulate (and
store) the Newton equation systems. Secondly, we exploit the special features
of the signal processing matrices within the matrix-free IPM. Two such features
are of particular interest: an excellent conditioning of these matrices and the
ability to perform inexpensive (low complexity) matrix-vector multiplications
with them. Computational experience with large scale one-dimensional signals
confirms that the new approach is efficient and offers an attractive
alternative to other state-of-the-art solvers.