Water is the main component of interstellar ice mantles, is abundant in the
solar system and is a crucial ingredient for life. The formation of this
molecule in the interstellar medium cannot be explained by gas-phase chemistry
only and its surface hydrogenation formation routes at low temperatures (O, O2,
O3 channels) are still unclear and most likely incomplete. In a previous paper
we discussed an unexpected zeroth-order H2O production behavior in O2 ice
hydrogenation experiments compared to the first-order H2CO and CH3OH production
behavior found in former studies on hydrogenation of CO ice. In this paper we
experimentally investigate in detail how the structure of O2 ice leads to this
rare behavior in reaction order and production yield. In our experiments H
atoms are added to a thick O2 ice under fully controlled conditions, while the
changes are followed by means of reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy
(RAIRS). The H-atom penetration mechanism is systematically studied by varying
the temperature, thickness and structure of the O2 ice. We conclude that the
competition between reaction and diffusion of the H atoms into the O2 ice
explains the unexpected H2O and H2O2 formation behavior. In addition, we show
that the proposed O2 hydrogenation scheme is incomplete, suggesting that
additional surface reactions should be considered. Indeed, the detection of
newly formed O3 in the ice upon H-atom exposure proves that the O2 channel is
not an isolated route. Furthermore, the addition of H2 molecules is found not
to have a measurable effect on the O2 reaction channel.