A semilinear relation S is max-closed if it is preserved by taking the
componentwise maximum. The constraint satisfaction problem for max-closed
semilinear constraints is at least as hard as determining the winner in Mean
Payoff Games, a notorious problem of open computational complexity. Mean Payoff
Games are known to be in the intersection of NP and co-NP, which is not known
for max-closed semilinear constraints. Semilinear relations that are max-closed
and additionally closed under translations have been called tropically convex
in the literature. One of our main results is a new duality for open tropically
convex relations, which puts the CSP for tropically convex semilinaer
constraints in general into NP intersected co-NP. This extends the
corresponding complexity result for and-or precedence constraints aka the
max-atoms problem. To this end, we present a characterization of max-closed
semilinear relations in terms of syntactically restricted first-order logic,
and another characterization in terms of a finite set of relations L that allow
primitive positive definitions of all other relations in the class. We also
present a subclass of max-closed constraints where the CSP is in P; this class
generalizes the class of max-closed constraints over finite domains, and the
feasibility problem for max-closed linear inequalities. Finally, we show that
the class of max-closed semilinear constraints is maximal in the sense that as
soon as a single relation that is not max-closed is added to L, the CSP becomes
NP-hard.