We study the communication complexity of linear algebraic problems over
finite fields in the multi-player message passing model, proving a number of
tight lower bounds. Specifically, for a matrix which is distributed among a
number of players, we consider the problem of determining its rank, of
computing entries in its inverse, and of solving linear equations. We also
consider related problems such as computing the generalized inner product of
vectors held on different servers. We give a general framework for reducing
these multi-player problems to their two-player counterparts, showing that the
randomized $s$-player communication complexity of these problems is at least
$s$ times the randomized two-player communication complexity. Provided the
problem has a certain amount of algebraic symmetry, which we formally define,
we can show the hardest input distribution is a symmetric distribution, and
therefore apply a recent multi-player lower bound technique of Phillips et al.
Further, we give new two-player lower bounds for a number of these problems. In
particular, our optimal lower bound for the two-player version of the matrix
rank problem resolves an open question of Sun and Wang.
  A common feature of our lower bounds is that they apply even to the special
"threshold promise" versions of these problems, wherein the underlying
quantity, e.g., rank, is promised to be one of just two values, one on each
side of some critical threshold. These kinds of promise problems are
commonplace in the literature on data streaming as sources of hardness for
reductions giving space lower bounds.