This is the second part of a two-part paper that studies the problem of
jamming in a fixed-rate transmission system with fading. In the first part, we
studied the scenario with a fast fading channel, and found Nash equilibria of
mixed strategies for short term power constraints, and for average power
constraints with and without channel state information (CSI) feedback. We also
solved the equally important maximin and minimax problems with pure strategies.
Whenever we dealt with average power constraints, we decomposed the problem
into two levels of power control, which we solved individually. In this second
part of the paper, we study the scenario with a parallel, slow fading channel,
which usually models multi-carrier transmissions, such as OFDM. Although the
framework is similar as the one in Part I \cite{myself3}, dealing with the slow
fading requires more intricate techniques. Unlike in the fast fading scenario,
where the frames supporting the transmission of the codewords were equivalent
and completely characterized by the channel statistics, in our present scenario
the frames are unique, and characterized by a specific set of channel
realizations. This leads to more involved inter-frame power allocation
strategies, and in some cases even to the need for a third level of power
control. We also show that for parallel slow fading channels, the CSI feedback
helps in the battle against jamming, as evidenced by the significant
degradation to system performance when CSI is not sent back. We expect this
degradation to decrease as the number of parallel channels $M$ increases, until
it becomes marginal for $M\to \infty$ (which can be considered as the case in
Part I).