We describe an interpretation of convection in binary fluid mixtures as a
superposition of thermal and solutal problems, with coupling due to advection
and proportional to the separation parameter S. Many properties of binary fluid
convection are then consequences of generic properties of 2 x 2 matrices. The
eigenvalues of 2 x 2 matrices varying continuously with a parameter r undergo
either avoided crossing or complex coalescence, depending on the sign of the
coupling (product of off-diagonal terms). We first consider the matrix
governing the stability of the conductive state. When the thermal and solutal
gradients act in concert (S>0, avoided crossing), the growth rates of
perturbations remain real and of either thermal or solutal type. In contrast,
when the thermal and solutal gradients are of opposite signs (S<0, complex
coalescence), the growth rates become complex and are of mixed type.
Surprisingly, the kinetic energy of nonlinear steady states is governed by an
eigenvalue problem very similar to that governing the growth rates. There is a
quantitative analogy between the growth rates of the linear stability problem
for infinite Prandtl number and the amplitudes of steady states of the minimal
five-variable Veronis model for arbitrary Prandtl number. For positive S,
avoided crossing leads to a distinction between low-amplitude solutal and
high-amplitude thermal regimes. For negative S, the transition between real and
complex eigenvalues leads to the creation of branches of finite amplitude, i.e.
to saddle-node bifurcations. The codimension-two point at which the saddle-node
bifurcations disappear, separating subcritical from supercritical pitchfork
bifurcations, is exactly analogous to the Bogdanov codimension-two point at
which the Hopf bifurcations disappear in the linear problem.