The simplest possible beginning of abiogenesis has been a riddle from the
last century, which is most successfully solved by the Lipid World hypothesis.
However, origin of the next stages of evolution starting form lipids is still
in dark. We propose a 'Lipid-RNA World Scenario' based on the assumption that
modern stable lipid-RNA interactions are molecular fossils of an ancient stage
of evolution when RNA World originated from Lipid World. In accordance to the
faint young sun conditions, we present an 'ice-covered hydrothermal vent' model
of Hadean Ocean. Our hypothetical model suggests that faint young sun condition
probably provided susceptible physical conditions for an evolutionary route
from Lipid-World to Protein-RNA World, through an intermediate Lipid-RNA World.
Ancient ribozymes were 'protected' by lipids assuring their survival in
prebiotic ocean. The origin of natural selection ensures transition of
Lipid-RNA World to Protein-RNA World after the origin of ribosome. Assuming the
modern peptidyltransferase as the proto-ribosome structure, we have presented a
hypothetical translation mechanism: proto-ribosome randomly polymerized amino
acids being attached to the inner layer of a lipid-vesicle, using only physical
energies available from our Hadean Ocean model. In accordance to the strategy
of chemical evolution, we also have described the possible evolutionary
behavior of this proto-ribosome, which explains the contemporary
three-dimensional structure of 50S subunit and supports the predictions
regarding the ancient regions of it. It also explains the origin of
membrane-free 'minimal ribosome' in the time of LUCA.