A fundamental problem in wireless networks is the maximum link scheduling
problem: given a set $L$ of links, compute the largest possible subset
$L'\subseteq L$ of links that can be scheduled simultaneously without
interference. This problem is particularly challenging in the physical
interference model based on SINR constraints (referred to as the SINR model),
which has gained a lot of interest in recent years. Constant factor
approximation algorithms have been developed for this problem, but low
complexity distributed algorithms that give the same approximation guarantee in
the SINR model are not known. Distributed algorithms are especially challenging
in this model, because of its non-locality.
  In this paper, we develop a set of fast distributed algorithms in the SINR
model, providing constant approximation for the maximum link scheduling problem
under uniform power assignment. We find that different aspects of available
technology, such as full/half-duplex communication, and non-adaptive/adaptive
power control, have a significant impact on the performance of the algorithm;
these issues have not been explored in the context of distributed algorithms in
the SINR model before. Our algorithms' running time is $O(g(L) \log^c m)$,
where $c=1,2,3$ for different problem instances, and $g(L)$ is the "link
diversity" determined by the logarithmic scale of a communication link length.
Since $g(L)$ is small and remains in a constant range in most cases, our
algorithms serve as the first set of "sublinear" time distributed solution. The
algorithms are randomized and crucially use physical carrier sensing in
distributed communication steps.