We consider the problem of intruder deduction in security protocol analysis:
that is, deciding whether a given message M can be deduced from a set of
messages Gamma under the theory of blind signatures and arbitrary convergent
equational theories modulo associativity and commutativity (AC) of certain
binary operators. The traditional formulations of intruder deduction are
usually given in natural-deduction-like systems and proving decidability
requires significant effort in showing that the rules are "local" in some
sense. By using the well-known translation between natural deduction and
sequent calculus, we recast the intruder deduction problem as proof search in
sequent calculus, in which locality is immediate. Using standard proof
theoretic methods, such as permutability of rules and cut elimination, we show
that the intruder deduction problem can be reduced, in polynomial time, to the
elementary deduction problem, which amounts to solving certain equations in the
underlying individual equational theories. We show that this result extends to
combinations of disjoint AC-convergent theories whereby the decidability of
intruder deduction under the combined theory reduces to the decidability of
elementary deduction in each constituent theory. To further demonstrate the
utility of the sequent-based approach, we show that, for Dolev-Yao intruders,
our sequent-based techniques can be used to solve the more difficult problem of
solving deducibility constraints, where the sequents to be deduced may contain
gaps (or variables) representing possible messages the intruder may produce.