The term Autonomic Communication (AC) refers to self-managing systems which
are capable of supporting self-configuration, self-healing and
self-optimization. However, information reflection and collection, lack of
centralized control, non-cooperation and so on are just some of the challenges
within AC systems. We have considered these problems in theory and practice and
reached the following conclusion; in order to build an ideal system for
autonomic communication, there are three key problems to be solved. Motivated
by the need for AC, we have designed an efficient and low-cost Peer-to-Peer
(P2P) overlay called Maya-Pyramid overlay (MPO) and combined merits of
unstructured P2P with those of structured P2P overlays. Differing from the
traditional hierarchical P2P (i.e. tree-like structure) overlay, (1) MPO is
composed of levels and layers, which uses small world characteristic to improve
efficiency, and the maintenance cost is decreased because update and backup
only take place in two neighboring levels or layers instead of recursively
perform in higher levels. (2) Unlike normal redundant mechanisms for solving
the single fault problem: Tri-Information Center (Tri-IC) mechanism is
presented in order to improve robustness by alleviating the load of cluster
heads in a hierarchical P2P overlay. (3) A source ranking mechanism is proposed
in order to discourage free riding and whitewashing and to encourage frequent
information exchanges between peers. (4) Inspired by Pastry's ID structure for
a structured DHT algorithm, a 3D unique ID structure is presented in the
unstructured P2P overlay. This will guarantee anonymity in routing, and will
be, not only more efficient because it applies the DHT-like routing algorithm
in the unstructured P2P overlay, but also more adaptive to suit AC. Evaluation
proved that MPO is robust, highly efficient and of a low-cost.