A dominating set $D$ in a graph is a subset of its vertex set such that each
vertex is either in $D$ or has a neighbour in $D$. In this paper, we are
interested in the enumeration of (inclusion-wise) minimal dominating sets in
graphs, called the Dom-Enum problem. It is well known that this problem can be
polynomially reduced to the Trans-Enum problem in hypergraphs, i.e., the
problem of enumerating all minimal transversals in a hypergraph. Firstly we
show that the Trans-Enum problem can be polynomially reduced to the Dom-Enum
problem. As a consequence there exists an output-polynomial time algorithm for
the Trans-Enum problem if and only if there exists one for the Dom-Enum
problem. Secondly, we study the Dom-Enum problem in some graph classes. We give
an output-polynomial time algorithm for the Dom-Enum problem in split graphs,
and introduce the completion of a graph to obtain an output-polynomial time
algorithm for the Dom-Enum problem in $P_6$-free chordal graphs, a proper
superclass of split graphs. Finally, we investigate the complexity of the
enumeration of (inclusion-wise) minimal connected dominating sets and minimal
total dominating sets of graphs. We show that there exists an output-polynomial
time algorithm for the Dom-Enum problem (or equivalently Trans-Enum problem) if
and only if there exists one for the following enumeration problems: minimal
total dominating sets, minimal total dominating sets in split graphs, minimal
connected dominating sets in split graphs, minimal dominating sets in
co-bipartite graphs.