In this article we investigate the existence of a solution to a semilinear,
elliptic, partial differential equation with distributional coefficients and
data. The problem we consider is a generalization of the Lichnerowicz equation
that one encounters in studying the constraint equations in general relativity.
Our method for solving this problem consists of solving a net of regularized,
semilinear problems with data obtained by smoothing the original,
distributional coefficients. In order to solve these regularized problems, we
develop a priori pointwise bounds and sub- and super-solutions and then apply a
fixed-point argument for order-preserving maps. We then show that the net of
solutions obtained through this process satisfies certain decay estimates by
determining estimates for the sub- and super-solutions and by utilizing
classical, a priori elliptic estimates. The estimates for this net of solutions
allow us to regard this collection of functions as a solution in a
Colombeau-type algebra. We motivate this Colombeau algebra framework by first
solving an ill-posed critical exponent problem. To solve this ill-posed
problem, we use a collection of smooth, "approximating" problems and then use
the resulting sequence of solutions and a compactness argument to obtain a
solution to the original problem. This approach is modeled after the more
general Colombeau framework that we develop, and it conveys the potential that
solutions in these abstract spaces have for obtaining classical solutions to
ill-posed nonlinear problems with irregular data.