The purpose of this paper is to investigate several analytical methods of
solving first passage (FP) problem for the Rouse model, a simplest model of a
polymer chain. We show that this problem has to be treated as a
multi-dimensional Kramers' problem, which presents rich and unexpected
behavior. We first perform direct and forward-flux sampling (FFS) simulations,
and measure the mean first-passage time $\tau(z)$ for the free end to reach a
certain distance $z$ away from the origin. The results show that the mean FP
time is getting faster if the Rouse chain is represented by more beads. Two
scaling regimes of $\tau(z)$ are observed, with transition between them varying
as a function of chain length. We use these simulations results to test two
theoretical approaches. One is a well known asymptotic theory valid in the
limit of zero temperature. We show that this limit corresponds to fully
extended chain when each chain segment is stretched, which is not particularly
realistic. A new theory based on the well known Freidlin-Wentzell theory is
proposed, where dynamics is projected onto the minimal action path. The new
theory predicts both scaling regimes correctly, but fails to get the correct
numerical prefactor in the first regime. Combining our theory with the FFS
simulations lead us to a simple analytical expression valid for all extensions
and chain lengths. One of the applications of polymer FP problem occurs in the
context of branched polymer rheology. In this paper, we consider the
arm-retraction mechanism in the tube model, which maps exactly on the model we
have solved. The results are compared to the Milner-McLeish theory without
constraint release, which is found to overestimate FP time by a factor of 10 or
more.