In this paper, we relate the problem of finding a maximum clique to the
intersection number of the input graph (i.e. the minimum number of cliques
needed to edge cover the graph). In particular, we consider the maximum clique
problem for graphs with small intersection number and random intersection
graphs (a model in which each one of $m$ labels is chosen independently with
probability $p$ by each one of $n$ vertices, and there are edges between any
vertices with overlaps in the labels chosen).
  We first present a simple algorithm which, on input $G$ finds a maximum
clique in $O(2^{2^m + O(m)} + n^2 \min\{2^m, n\})$ time steps, where $m$ is an
upper bound on the intersection number and $n$ is the number of vertices.
Consequently, when $m \leq \ln{\ln{n}}$ the running time of this algorithm is
polynomial.
  We then consider random instances of the random intersection graphs model as
input graphs. As our main contribution, we prove that, when the number of
labels is not too large ($m=n^{\alpha}, 0< \alpha <1$), we can use the label
choices of the vertices to find a maximum clique in polynomial time whp. The
proof of correctness for this algorithm relies on our Single Label Clique
Theorem, which roughly states that whp a "large enough" clique cannot be formed
by more than one label. This theorem generalizes and strengthens other related
results in the state of the art, but also broadens the range of values
considered.
  As an important consequence of our Single Label Clique Theorem, we prove that
the problem of inferring the complete information of label choices for each
vertex from the resulting random intersection graph (i.e. the \emph{label
representation of the graph}) is \emph{solvable} whp. Finding efficient
algorithms for constructing such a label representation is left as an
interesting open problem for future research.