Imperfect-recall abstraction has emerged as the leading paradigm for
practical large-scale equilibrium computation in incomplete-information games.
However, imperfect-recall abstractions are poorly understood, and only weak
algorithm-specific guarantees on solution quality are known. In this paper, we
show the first general, algorithm-agnostic, solution quality guarantees for
Nash equilibria and approximate self-trembling equilibria computed in
imperfect-recall abstractions, when implemented in the original
(perfect-recall) game. Our results are for a class of games that generalizes
the only previously known class of imperfect-recall abstractions where any
results had been obtained. Further, our analysis is tighter in two ways, each
of which can lead to an exponential reduction in the solution quality error
bound.
  We then show that for extensive-form games that satisfy certain properties,
the problem of computing a bound-minimizing abstraction for a single level of
the game reduces to a clustering problem, where the increase in our bound is
the distance function. This reduction leads to the first imperfect-recall
abstraction algorithm with solution quality bounds. We proceed to show a divide
in the class of abstraction problems. If payoffs are at the same scale at all
information sets considered for abstraction, the input forms a metric space.
Conversely, if this condition is not satisfied, we show that the input does not
form a metric space. Finally, we use these results to experimentally
investigate the quality of our bound for single-level abstraction.