The Euclidean $k$-means problem is a classical problem that has been
extensively studied in the theoretical computer science, machine learning and
the computational geometry communities. In this problem, we are given a set of
$n$ points in Euclidean space $R^d$, and the goal is to choose $k$ centers in
$R^d$ so that the sum of squared distances of each point to its nearest center
is minimized. The best approximation algorithms for this problem include a
polynomial time constant factor approximation for general $k$ and a
$(1+\epsilon)$-approximation which runs in time $poly(n) 2^{O(k/\epsilon)}$. At
the other extreme, the only known computational complexity result for this
problem is NP-hardness [ADHP'09]. The main difficulty in obtaining hardness
results stems from the Euclidean nature of the problem, and the fact that any
point in $R^d$ can be a potential center. This gap in understanding left open
the intriguing possibility that the problem might admit a PTAS for all $k,d$.
  In this paper we provide the first hardness of approximation for the
Euclidean $k$-means problem. Concretely, we show that there exists a constant
$\epsilon > 0$ such that it is NP-hard to approximate the $k$-means objective
to within a factor of $(1+\epsilon)$. We show this via an efficient reduction
from the vertex cover problem on triangle-free graphs: given a triangle-free
graph, the goal is to choose the fewest number of vertices which are incident
on all the edges. Additionally, we give a proof that the current best hardness
results for vertex cover can be carried over to triangle-free graphs. To show
this we transform $G$, a known hard vertex cover instance, by taking a graph
product with a suitably chosen graph $H$, and showing that the size of the
(normalized) maximum independent set is almost exactly preserved in the product
graph using a spectral analysis, which might be of independent interest.