Observations show that geomagnetic field lines follow closely the atmospheric
circulation patterns and that geomagnetic field variations are precursors to
climate change . The exact mechanism for the observed close relationship
between global geomagnetic field and the tropospheric weather patterns is not
clear. In this paper a universal theory of atmospheric eddy dynamics is
presented which shows that the global geomagnetic field, atmospheric electric
field and weather systems are manifestations of a semi permanent scale
invariant hierarchical atmospheric eddy continuum. Quantitative equations are
derived to show that the full continuum of atmospheric eddies exist as a
unified whole and originate from buoyant energy supply from frictional
turbulence at the planetary surface . Large eddy growth occurs from turbulence
scale by the universal period doubling route to chaos . The turbulent eddies
are carried upwards on the large eddy envelopes and vertical mixing occurs by
the turbulent eddy fluctuations resulting in downward transport of negative
space charges from higher levels and simultaneous upward transport of positive
space charges from surface levels. The eddy circulations therefore generate a
large-scale vertical aerosol current, which is of the correct sign and
magnitude to generate the horizontal component of the geomagnetic field.
Therefore, atmospheric circulation patterns leave signature on the geomagnetic
field lines whose global variations can be easily monitored by satellite borne
sensors and thus assist in weather and climate prediction.