Dislocation based modeling of plasticity is one of the central challenges at
the crossover of materials science and continuum mechanics. Developing a
continuum theory of dislocations requires the solution of two long standing
problems: (i) to represent dislocation kinematics in terms of a reasonable
number of variables and (ii) to derive averaged descriptions of the dislocation
dynamics (i.e. material laws) in terms of these variables. The kinematic
problem (i) was recently solved through the introduction of continuum
dislocation dynamics (CDD), which provides kinematically consistent evolution
equations of dislocation alignment tensors, presuming a given average
dislocation velocity (Hochrainer (2015), Philos. Mag. 95 (12), 1321--1367). In
the current paper we demonstrate how a free energy formulation may be used to
solve the dynamic closure problem (ii) in CDD. We do so exemplarily for the
lowest order CDD variant for curved dislocations in a single slip situation. In
this case, a thermodynamically consistent average dislocation velocity is found
to comprise five mesoscopic shear stress contributions. For a postulated free
energy expression we identify among these stress contributions a back-stress
term and a line-tension term, both of which have already been postulated for
CDD. A new stress contribution occurs which is missing in earlier CDD models
including the statistical continuum theory of straight parallel edge
dislocations (Groma et al. (2015), Acta Mater. 51, 1271-1281). Furthermore, two
entirely new stress contributions arise from the curvature of dislocations.