Both the acceleration of cosmic rays (CR) in supernova remnant shocks and
their subsequent propagation through the random magnetic field of the Galaxy
deem to result in an almost isotropic CR spectrum. Yet the MILAGRO TeV
observatory discovered a sharp ($\sim10^{\circ})$ arrival anisotropy of CR
nuclei. We suggest a mechanism for producing a weak and narrow CR beam which
operates en route to the observer. The key assumption is that CRs are scattered
by a strongly anisotropic Alfven wave spectrum formed by the turbulent cascade
across the local field direction. The strongest pitch-angle scattering occurs
for particles moving almost precisely along the field line. Partly because this
direction is also the direction of minimum of the large scale CR angular
distribution, the enhanced scattering results in a weak but narrow particle
excess. The width, the fractional excess and the maximum momentum of the beam
are calculated from a systematic transport theory depending on a single scale
$l$ which can be associated with the longest Alfven wave, efficiently
scattering the beam. The best match to all the three characteristics of the
beam is achieved at $l\sim1$pc. The distance to a possible source of the beam
is estimated to be within a few 100pc. Possible approaches to determination of
the scale $l$ from the characteristics of the source are discussed. Alternative
scenarios of drawing the beam from the galactic CR background are considered.
The beam related large scale anisotropic CR component is found to be energy
independent which is also consistent with the observations.