In this paper we present a methodology employing statistical analysis and
stochastic geometry to study geometric routing schemes in wireless ad-hoc
networks. In particular, we analyze the network layer performance of one such
scheme, the random $\frac{1}{2}$disk routing scheme, which is a localized
geometric routing scheme in which each node chooses the next relay randomly
among the nodes within its transmission range and in the general direction of
the destination. The techniques developed in this paper enable us to establish
the asymptotic connectivity and the convergence results for the mean and
variance of the routing path lengths generated by geometric routing schemes in
random wireless networks. In particular, we approximate the progress of the
routing path towards the destination by a Markov process and determine the
sufficient conditions that ensure the asymptotic connectivity for both dense
and large-scale ad-hoc networks deploying the random $\frac{1}{2}$disk routing
scheme. Furthermore, using this Markov characterization, we show that the
expected length (hop-count) of the path generated by the random
$\frac{1}{2}$disk routing scheme normalized by the length of the path generated
by the ideal direct-line routing, converges to $3\pi/4$ asymptotically.
Moreover, we show that the variance-to-mean ratio of the routing path length
converges to $9\pi^2/64-1$ asymptotically. Through simulation, we show that the
aforementioned asymptotic statistics are in fact quite accurate even for finite
granularity and size of the network.