We describe the implementation of a module for the Athena
magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) code which solves the time-independent,
multi-frequency radiative transfer (RT) equation on multidimensional Cartesian
simulation domains, including scattering and non-LTE effects. The module is
based on well-known and well-tested algorithms developed for modeling stellar
atmospheres, including the method of short characteristics to solve the RT
equation, accelerated Lambda iteration to handle scattering and non-LTE
effects, and parallelization via domain decomposition. The module serves
several purposes: it can be used to generate spectra and images, to compute a
variable Eddington tensor (VET) for full radiation MHD simulations, and to
calculate the heating and cooling source terms in the MHD equations in flows
where radiation pressure is small compared with gas pressure. For the latter
case, the module is combined with the standard MHD integrators using
operator-splitting and we describe this approach in detail. Implementation of
the VET method for radiation pressure dominated flows is described in a
companion paper. We present results from a suite of test problems for both the
RT solver itself, and for dynamical problems that include radiative heating and
cooling. These tests demonstrate that the radiative transfer solution is
accurate, and confirm that the operator split method is stable, convergent, and
efficient for problems of interest. We demonstrate there is no need to adopt
ad-hoc assumptions of questionable accuracy to solve RT problems in concert
with MHD: the computational cost for our general-purpose module for simple
(e.g. LTE grey) problems can be comparable to or less than a single timestep of
Athena's MHD integrators, and only few times more expensive than that for more
general problems. (Abridged)