For some computational problems (e.g., product configuration, planning,
diagnosis, query answering, phylogeny reconstruction) computing a set of
similar/diverse solutions may be desirable for better decision-making. With
this motivation, we studied several decision/optimization versions of this
problem in the context of Answer Set Programming (ASP), analyzed their
computational complexity, and introduced offline/online methods to compute
similar/diverse solutions of such computational problems with respect to a
given distance function. All these methods rely on the idea of computing
solutions to a problem by means of finding the answer sets for an ASP program
that describes the problem. The offline methods compute all solutions in
advance using the ASP formulation of the problem with an ASP solver, like
Clasp, and then identify similar/diverse solutions using clustering methods.
The online methods compute similar/diverse solutions following one of the three
approaches: by reformulating the ASP representation of the problem to compute
similar/diverse solutions at once using an ASP solver; by computing
similar/diverse solutions iteratively (one after other) using an ASP solver; by
modifying the search algorithm of an ASP solver to compute similar/diverse
solutions incrementally. We modified Clasp to implement the last online method
and called it Clasp-NK. In the first two online methods, the given distance
function is represented in ASP; in the last one it is implemented in C++. We
showed the applicability and the effectiveness of these methods on
reconstruction of similar/diverse phylogenies for Indo-European languages, and
on several planning problems in Blocks World. We observed that in terms of
computational efficiency the last online method outperforms the others; also it
allows us to compute similar/diverse solutions when the distance function
cannot be represented in ASP.