Obtaining and maintaining anonymity on the Internet is challenging. The state
of the art in deployed tools, such as Tor, uses onion routing (OR) to relay
encrypted connections on a detour passing through randomly chosen relays
scattered around the Internet. Unfortunately, OR is known to be vulnerable at
least in principle to several classes of attacks for which no solution is known
or believed to be forthcoming soon. Current approaches to anonymity also appear
unable to offer accurate, principled measurement of the level or quality of
anonymity a user might obtain.
  Toward this end, we offer a high-level view of the Dissent project, the first
systematic effort to build a practical anonymity system based purely on
foundations that offer measurable and formally provable anonymity properties.
Dissent builds on two key pre-existing primitives - verifiable shuffles and
dining cryptographers - but for the first time shows how to scale such
techniques to offer measurable anonymity guarantees to thousands of
participants. Further, Dissent represents the first anonymity system designed
from the ground up to incorporate some systematic countermeasure for each of
the major classes of known vulnerabilities in existing approaches, including
global traffic analysis, active attacks, and intersection attacks. Finally,
because no anonymity protocol alone can address risks such as software exploits
or accidental self-identification, we introduce WiNon, an experimental
operating system architecture to harden the uses of anonymity tools such as Tor
and Dissent against such attacks.