Huffman coding finds a prefix code that minimizes mean codeword length for a
given probability distribution over a finite number of items. Campbell
generalized the Huffman problem to a family of problems in which the goal is to
minimize not mean codeword length but rather a generalized mean known as a
quasiarithmetic or quasilinear mean. Such generalized means have a number of
diverse applications, including applications in queueing. Several
quasiarithmetic-mean problems have novel simple redundancy bounds in terms of a
generalized entropy. A related property involves the existence of optimal
codes: For ``well-behaved'' cost functions, optimal codes always exist for
(possibly infinite-alphabet) sources having finite generalized entropy. Solving
finite instances of such problems is done by generalizing an algorithm for
finding length-limited binary codes to a new algorithm for finding optimal
binary codes for any quasiarithmetic mean with a convex cost function. This
algorithm can be performed using quadratic time and linear space, and can be
extended to other penalty functions, some of which are solvable with similar
space and time complexity, and others of which are solvable with slightly
greater complexity. This reduces the computational complexity of a problem
involving minimum delay in a queue, allows combinations of previously
considered problems to be optimized, and greatly expands the space of problems
solvable in quadratic time and linear space. The algorithm can be extended for
purposes such as breaking ties among possibly different optimal codes, as with
bottom-merge Huffman coding.