Boolean Satisfiability (SAT) is arguably the archetypical NP-complete
decision problem. Progress in SAT solving algorithms has motivated an ever
increasing number of practical applications in recent years. However, many
practical uses of SAT involve solving function as opposed to decision problems.
Concrete examples include computing minimal unsatisfiable subsets, minimal
correction subsets, prime implicates and implicants, minimal models, backbone
literals, and autarkies, among several others. In most cases, solving a
function problem requires a number of adaptive or non-adaptive calls to a SAT
solver. Given the computational complexity of SAT, it is therefore important to
develop algorithms that either require the smallest possible number of calls to
the SAT solver, or that involve simpler instances. This paper addresses a
number of representative function problems defined on Boolean formulas, and
shows that all these function problems can be reduced to a generic problem of
computing a minimal set subject to a monotone predicate. This problem is
referred to as the Minimal Set over Monotone Predicate (MSMP) problem. This
exercise provides new ways for solving well-known function problems, including
prime implicates, minimal correction subsets, backbone literals, independent
variables and autarkies, among several others. Moreover, this exercise
motivates the development of more efficient algorithms for the MSMP problem.
Finally the paper outlines a number of areas of future research related with
extensions of the MSMP problem.