In multiprocessor systems, various problems are treated with Lamport's
logical clock and the resultant logical time orders between operations.
However, one often needs to face the high complexities caused by the lack of
logical time order information in practice. In this paper, we utilize the
\emph{global clock} to infuse the so-called \emph{pending period} to each
operation in a multiprocessor system, where the pending period is a time
interval that contains the performed time of the operation. Further, we define
the \emph{physical time order} for any two operations with disjoint pending
periods. The physical time order is obeyed by any real execution in
multiprocessor systems due to that it is part of the truly happened operation
orders restricted by global clock, and it is then proven to be independent and
consistent with traditional logical time orders. The above novel yet
fundamental concepts enables new effective approaches for analyzing
multiprocessor systems, which are named \emph{pending period analysis} as a
whole. As a consequence of pending period analysis, many important problems of
multiprocessor systems can be tackled effectively. As a significant application
example, complete memory consistency verification, which was known as an
NP-hard problem, can be solved with the complexity of $O(n^2)$ (where $n$ is
the number of operations). Moreover, the two event ordering problems, which
were proven to be Co-NP-Hard and NP-hard respectively, can both be solved with
the time complexity of O(n) if restricted by pending period information.