Parity games are games that are played on directed graphs whose vertices are
labeled by natural numbers, called priorities. The players push a token along
the edges of the digraph. The winner is determined by the parity of the
greatest priority occurring infinitely often in this infinite play.
  A motivation for studying parity games comes from the area of formal
verification of systems by model checking. Deciding the winner in a parity game
is polynomial time equivalent to the model checking problem of the modal
mu-calculus. Another strong motivation lies in the fact that the exact
complexity of solving parity games is a long-standing open problem, the
currently best known algorithm being subexponential. It is known that the
problem is in the complexity classes UP and coUP.
  In this paper we identify restricted classes of digraphs where the problem is
solvable in polynomial time, following an approach from structural graph
theory. We consider three standard graph operations: the join of two graphs,
repeated pasting along vertices, and the addition of a vertex. Given a class C
of digraphs on which we can solve parity games in polynomial time, we show that
the same holds for the class obtained from C by applying once any of these
three operations to its elements.
  These results provide, in particular, polynomial time algorithms for parity
games whose underlying graph is an orientation of a complete graph, a complete
bipartite graph, a block graph, or a block-cactus graph. These are classes
where the problem was not known to be efficiently solvable.
  Previous results concerning restricted classes of parity games which are
solvable in polynomial time include classes of bounded tree-width, bounded
DAG-width, and bounded clique-width.
  We also prove that recognising the winning regions of a parity game is not
easier than computing them from scratch.