Fitting a Gaussian Random Field (GRF) model to spatial data via maximum
likelihood (ML) requires optimizing a non-convex function. Iterative methods to
solve the ML problem require $O(n^3)$ floating point operations per iteration,
where $n$ denotes the number of data points. For large data sets, the
non-convexity and computational complexity of the ML problem render covariance
ML methods inefficient for GRF fitting. In this paper, we propose a new
two-step GRF estimation procedure when the process is second-order stationary.
First, a \emph{convex} likelihood problem, regularized with a weighted
$\ell_1$-norm based on available inter-point distance information, is solved to
fit a sparse {\em precision} (inverse covariance) matrix to the GRF model using
the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers. Second, the parameters of the
GRF spatial covariance function are estimated by solving a least square
problem. Theoretical results provide convergence bound for the proposed SPS
estimator. Numerical experiments verify the theoretical results and show
improvements of one order of magnitude in mean square prediction error over
competitor methods. The covariance parameters estimated by the proposed
approach are shown to be more precise and accurate than those obtained with
alternative methods. Large datasets are handled by a blocking scheme that
enables parallel computation and ensures without further formulation that the
predicted surface has no discontinuities at the block boundaries. The proposed
approach can be easily modified to allow fitting non-stationary GRF processes.