We consider general large-scale service systems with multiple customer
classes and multiple server (agent) pools, mean service times depend both on
the customer class and server pool. It is assumed that the allowed activities
(routing choices) form a tree (in the graph with vertices being both customer
classes and server pools). We study the behavior of the system under a natural
(load balancing) routing/scheduling rule, Longest-Queue Freest-Server
(LQFS-LB), in the many-server asymptotic regime, such that the exogenous
arrival rates of the customer classes, as well as the number of agents in each
pool, grow to infinity in proportion to some scaling parameter $r$. Equilibrium
point of the system under LQBS-LB is the desired operating point, with server
pool loads minimized and perfectly balanced. Our main results are as follows.
(a) We show that, quite surprisingly (given the tree assumption), for certain
parameter ranges, the fluid limit of the system may be unstable in the vicinity
of the equilibrium point; such instability may occur if the activity graph is
not "too small." (b) Using (a), we demonstrate that the sequence of stationary
distributions of diffusion-scaled processes [measuring $O(\sqrt{r})$ deviations
from the equilibrium point] may be nontight, and in fact may escape to
infinity. (c) In one special case of interest, however, we show that the
sequence of stationary distributions of diffusion-scaled processes is tight,
and the limit of stationary distributions is the stationary distribution of the
limiting diffusion process.