The one-class classification problem is a well-known research endeavor in
pattern recognition. The problem is also known under different names, such as
outlier and novelty/anomaly detection. The core of the problem consists in
modeling and recognizing patterns belonging only to a so-called target class.
All other patterns are termed non-target, and therefore they should be
recognized as such. In this paper, we propose a novel one-class classification
system that is based on an interplay of different techniques. Primarily, we
follow a dissimilarity representation based approach; we embed the input data
into the dissimilarity space by means of an appropriate parametric
dissimilarity measure. This step allows us to process virtually any type of
data. The dissimilarity vectors are then represented through a weighted
Euclidean graphs, which we use to (i) determine the entropy of the data
distribution in the dissimilarity space, and at the same time (ii) derive
effective decision regions that are modeled as clusters of vertices. Since the
dissimilarity measure for the input data is parametric, we optimize its
parameters by means of a global optimization scheme, which considers both
mesoscopic and structural characteristics of the data represented through the
graphs. The proposed one-class classifier is designed to provide both hard
(Boolean) and soft decisions about the recognition of test patterns, allowing
an accurate description of the classification process. We evaluate the
performance of the system on different benchmarking datasets, containing either
feature-based or structured patterns. Experimental results demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed technique.