We study the problem of dielectric response in the strong coupling regime of
a charge transfer insulator. The frequency and wave number dependence of the
dielectric function $\epsilon ({\bf q},\omega)$ and its inverse $\epsilon
^{-1}({\bf q},\omega)$ is the main object of consideration. We show that the
problem, in general, cannot be reduced to a calculation within the Hubbard
model, which takes into account only a restricted number of electronic states
near the Fermi energy. The contribution of the rest of the system to the
longitudinal response (i.e. to $\epsilon ^{-1}({\bf q},\omega)$) is essential
for the whole frequency range. With the use of the spectral representation of
the two-particle Green's function we show that the problem may be divided into
two parts: into the contributions of the weakly correlated and the Hubbard
subsystems. For the latter we propose an approach that starts from the
correlated paramagnetic ground state with strong antiferromagnetic
fluctuations. We obtain a set of coupled equations of motion for the
two-particle Green's function that may be solved by means of the projection
technique. The solution is expressed by a two particle basis that includes the
excitonic states with electron and hole separated at various distances. We
apply our method to the multiband Hubbard (Emery) model that describes layered
cuprates. We show that strongly dispersive branches exist in the excitonic
spectrum of the 'minimal' Emery model ($1/U_d=U_p=t_{pp}=0$) and consider the
dependence of the spectrum on finite oxygen hopping $t_{pp}$ and on-site
repulsion $U_p$. The relationship of our calculations to electron energy loss
spectroscopy is discussed.