High deuterium fractionation is observed in various types of environment such
as prestellar cores, hot cores and hot corinos. It has proven to be an
efficient probe to study the physical and chemical conditions of these
environments. The study of the deuteration of different molecules helps us to
understand their formation. This is especially interesting for complex
molecules such as methanol and bigger molecules for which it may allow to
differentiate between gas-phase and solid-state formation pathways. Methanol
exhibits a high deuterium fractionation in hot corinos. Since CH3OH is thought
to be a precursor of methyl formate we expect that deuterated methyl formate is
produced in such environments. We have searched for the singly-deuterated
isotopologue of methyl formate, DCOOCH3, in IRAS 16293-2422, a hot corino
well-known for its high degree of methanol deuteration. We have used the
IRAM/JCMT unbiased spectral survey of IRAS 16293-2422 which allows us to search
for the DCOOCH3 rotational transitions within the survey spectral range (80-280
GHz, 328-366 GHz). The expected emission of deuterated methyl formate is
modelled at LTE and compared with the observations.} We have tentatively
detected DCOOCH3 in the protostar IRAS 16293-2422. We assign eight lines
detected in the IRAM survey to DCOOCH3. Three of these lines are affected by
blending problems and one line is affected by calibration uncertainties,
nevertheless the LTE emission model is compatible with the observations. A
simple LTE modelling of the two cores in IRAS 16293-2422, based on a previous
interferometric study of HCOOCH3, allows us to estimate the amount of DCOOCH3
in IRAS 16293-2422. Adopting an excitation temperature of 100 K and a source
size of 2\arcsec and 1\farcs5 for the A and B cores, respectively, we find that
N(A,DCOOCH3) = N(B,DCOOCH3) ~ 6.10^14 /cm2. The derived deuterium fractionation
is ~ 15%, consistent with values for other deuterated species in this source
and much greater than that expected from the deuterium cosmic abundance.
DCOOCH3, if its tentative detection is confirmed, should now be considered in
theoretical models that study complex molecule formation and their deuteration
mechanisms. Experimental work is also needed to investigate the different
chemical routes leading to the formation of deuterated methyl formate.