A major puzzle about the nature of the iron-based superconductivity appears
in the case of the alkaline iron selenides. Compared to the iron pnictides,
these systems have only electron Fermi pockets (i.e. no hole Fermi pockets) but
comparable superconducting transition temperatures. The challenge lies in
reconciling the two basic experimental features of their superconducting state:
a node-less gap and the existence of a resonance in the spin excitation
spectrum. We propose a mechanism based on reconstructing two quasi-degenerate
pairing states, one in an $s$-wave $A_{1g}$ channel that is fully gapped, and
the other in a $d$-wave $B_{1g}$ channel whose pairing function changes sign
across the electron Fermi pockets at the Brillouin-zone boundary. The resulting
intermediate pairing state, which we call an orbital-selective $s \times
\tau_3$ state, incorporates both of the above two properties. When the leading
spin-singlet pairing is in the $d_{xz}, d_{yz}$ orbital subspace, this state
retains the $s$-wave form factor but has a $B_{1g}$ symmetry due to an internal
$\tau_3$ structure in the orbital space. Within a five-orbital $t-J_{1}-J_{2}$
model with orbital-selective exchange couplings, we show that the proposed
pairing state is energetically competitive over a finite range of control
parameters. We calculate the dynamical spin susceptibility in the
orbital-selective $s \times \tau_3$ superconducting state and show that a spin
resonance arises and has the characteristics of observed by inelastic neutron
experiments in the alkaline iron selenides. More generally, the formation of
the orbital-selective $s \times \tau_3$ state represents a novel means of
relieving the quasi-degeneracy between $s-$ and $d-$wave pairing states, which
is a hitherto unsuspected alternative to the conventional route of linearly
superposing the two into a time-reversal symmetry breaking $s+id$ state.