Electrons have an intrinsic, indivisible, magnetic dipole aligned with their
internal angular momentum (spin). The magnetic interaction between two
electrons can therefore impose a change in their spin orientation. This
process, however, was never observed in experiment. The challenge is two-fold.
At the atomic scale, where the coupling is relatively large, the magnetic
interaction is often overshadowed by the much larger coulomb exchange
counterpart. In typical situations where exchange is negligible, magnetic
interactions are also very weak and well below ambient magnetic noise. Here we
report on the first measurement of the magnetic interaction between two
electronic spins. To this end, we used the ground state valence electrons of
two $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ions, co-trapped in an electric Paul trap and separated by
more than two micrometers. We measured the weak, millihertz scale
(alternatively $10^{-18}$ eV or $10^{-14}$ K), magnetic interaction between
their electronic spins. This, in the presence of magnetic noise that was six
orders of magnitude larger than the respective magnetic fields the electrons
apply on each other. Cooperative spin dynamics was kept coherent for 15 s
during which spin-entanglement was generated. The sensitivity necessary for
this measurement was provided by restricting the spin evolution to a
Decoherence-Free Subspace (DFS) which is immune to collective magnetic field
noise. Finally, by varying the separation between the two ions, we were able to
recover the inverse cubic distance dependence of the interaction. The reported
method suggests an alternative route to the search of long-range anomalous
spin-spin forces and can be generalized to include Quantum Error Correction
codes for other cases of extremely weak signal detection.