Mobile Ad hoc Network (MANET) is a collection of mobile nodes that can
communicate with each other using multihop wireless links without requiring any
fixed based-station infrastructure and centralized management. Each node in the
network acts as both a host and a router. In such scenario, designing of an
efficient, reliable and secure routing protocol has been a major challenging
issue over the last many years. Numerous schemes have been proposed for secure
routing protocols and most of the research work has so far focused on providing
security for routing using cryptography. In this paper, we propose a novel
approach to secure Ad hoc On-demand Distance Vector (AODV) routing protocol
from the insider attacks launched through active forging of its Route Reply
(RREP) control message. AODV routing protocol does not have any security
provision that makes it less reliable in publicly open ad hoc network. To deal
with the concerned security attacks, we have proposed AODV Security Extension
(AODVSEC) which enhances the scope of AODV for the security provision. We have
compared AODVSEC with AODV and Secure AODV (SAODV) in normal situation as well
as in presence of the three concerned attacks viz. Resource Consumption (RC)
attack, Route Disturb (RD) attack, Route Invasion (RI) attack and Blackhole
(BH) attack. To evaluate the performances, we have considered Packet Delivery
Fraction (PDF), Average End-to-End Delay (AED), Average Throughput (AT),
Normalized Routing Load (NRL) and Average Jitter and Accumulated Average
Processing Time.