User cooperation although improves performance of wireless systems, it
requires incentives for the potential cooperating nodes to spend their energy
acting as relays. Moreover, these potential relays are better informed than the
source about their transmission costs, which depend on the exact channel
conditions on their relay-destination links. This results in asymmetry of
available information between the source and the relays. In this paper, we use
contract theory to tackle the problem of relay selection under asymmetric
information in OFDM-based cooperative wireless system that employs
decode-and-forward (DF) relaying. We first design incentive compatible
offers/contracts, consisting of a menu of payments and desired
signal-to-noise-ratios (SNR)s at the destination and then the source broadcasts
this menu to nearby mobile nodes. The nearby mobile nodes who are willing to
relay notify back the source with the contracts they are willing to accept in
each subcarrier. We show that when the source is under a budget constraint, the
problem of relay selection in each subcarrier in order to maximize the capacity
is a nonlinear non-separable knapsack problem. We propose a heuristic relay
selection scheme to solve this problem. We compare the performance of our
overall mechanism and the heuristic solution with a simple relay selection
scheme and selected numerical results showed that our solution performs better
and is close to optimal. The overall mechanism introduced in this paper is
simple to implement, requires limited interaction with potential relays and
hence requires minimal signalling overhead.