Many anonymous communication (AC) networks rely on routing traffic through
proxy nodes to obfuscate the originator of the traffic. Without an
accountability mechanism, exit proxy nodes risk sanctions by law enforcement if
users commit illegal actions through the AC network. We present BackRef, a
generic mechanism for AC networks that provides practical repudiation for the
proxy nodes by tracing back the selected outbound traffic to the predecessor
node (but not in the forward direction) through a cryptographically verifiable
chain. It also provides an option for full (or partial) traceability back to
the entry node or even to the corresponding user when all intermediate nodes
are cooperating. Moreover, to maintain a good balance between anonymity and
accountability, the protocol incorporates whitelist directories at exit proxy
nodes. BackRef offers improved deployability over the related work, and
introduces a novel concept of pseudonymous signatures that may be of
independent interest.
  We exemplify the utility of BackRef by integrating it into the onion routing
(OR) protocol, and examine its deployability by considering several
system-level aspects. We also present the security definitions for the BackRef
system (namely, anonymity, backward traceability, no forward traceability, and
no false accusation) and conduct a formal security analysis of the OR protocol
with BackRef using ProVerif, an automated cryptographic protocol verifier,
establishing the aforementioned security properties against a strong
adversarial model.