Despite remarkable accomplishment, the classical hydrodynamic stability
theory fails to predict transition in wall-bounded shear ow. The shortcoming of
this modal approach was found 20 years ago and is linked to the
non-orthogonality of the eigenmodes of the linearised problem, de noted by the
Orr Sommerfeld and Squire equations. The associated eigenmodes of this
linearised problem are the normal velocity and the normal vorticity eigenmodes,
which are not dimensionally homogeneous quantities. Thus non-orthogonality
condition between these two families of eigenmodes have not been clearly
demonstrated yet. Using an orthogonal decomposition of solenoidal velocity
fields, a velocity perturbation is expressed as an L2 orthogonal sum of an
OrrSommerfeld velocity field (function of the perturbation normal velocity) and
a Squirevelocity field (function of the perturbation normal vorticity). Using
this decomposition,a variational formulation of the linearised problem is
written, that is equivalent to the Orr Sommerfeld and Squire equations, but
whose eigenmodes consist of two families of velocity eigenmodes (thus
dimensionally homogeneous). We demonstrate that these two sets are
non-orthogonal and linear combination between them can produce large transient
growth. Using this new formulation, the link between optimal mode and
continuous mode transition will also be clari fied, as the role of direct
resonance. Numerical solutions are presented to illustrate the analysis in the
case of thin boundary layers developing between two parallel walls at large
Reynolds number. Characterisations of the destabilizing perturbations will be
given in that case.