We consider the $D$-dimensional Euclidean space, $\mathbb{R}^D$, with certain
$(D-N)$-dimensional compact, closed and orientable sub-manifolds (which we call
\emph{singularity manifolds} and represent by $\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}$)
removed from it. We define and investigate the problem of finding a
homotopy-like class invariant ($\chi$-homotopy) for certain $(N-1)$-dimensional
compact, closed and orientable sub-manifolds (which we call \emph{candidate
manifolds} and represent by $\omega$) of $\mathbb{R}^D \setminus
\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}$, with special emphasis on computational aspects of the
problem. We determine a differential $(N-1)$-form,
$\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$, such that
$\chi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}(\omega) = \int_\omega
\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$ is a class invariant for such candidate
manifolds. We show that the formula agrees with formulae from Cauchy integral
theorem and Residue theorem of complex analysis (when $D=2,N=2$), Biot-Savart
law and Ampere's law of theory of electromagnetism (when $D=3,N=2$), and the
Gauss divergence theorem (when $D=3,N=3$), and discover that the underlying
equivalence relation suggested by each of these well-known theorems is the
$\chi$-homotopy of sub-manifolds of these low dimensional punctured Euclidean
spaces. We describe numerical techniques for computing
$\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$ and its integral on $\omega$, and give
numerical validations of the proposed theory for a problem in a 5-dimensional
Euclidean space. We also discuss a specific application from \emph{robot path
planning problem}, when N=2, and describe a method for computing least cost
paths with homotopy class constraints using \emph{graph search techniques}.