The Krein--Tannaka duality for compact groups was a generalization the
Pontryagin--Van Kampen duality for locally compact abelian groups and a remote
predecessor of the theory of tensor categories. It is less known that it found
applications in algebraic combinatorics (``Krein algebras''). Later, this
duality was substantially extended: in \cite{V}, the notion of {\it involutive
algebras in positive vector duality} was introduced. In this paper, we
reformulate the notions of this theory using the language of bialgebras (and
Hopf algebras) and introduce the class of involutive bialgebras and positive
2-algebras. The main goal of the paper is to give a precise statement of a new
problem, which we consider as one of the main problems in this field,
concerning the existence of dilations (embeddings) of positive 2-algebras into
involutive bialgebras, or, in other words, the problem of describing subobjects
in involutive bialgebras. We define two types of subobjects in the category of
bialgebras, strict and nonstrict ones, and consider the corresponding
embeddings (dilations) of positive 2-algebras into bialgebras. The difference
between the two types of dilations is illustrated by the example of
bicommutative positive 2-algebras (commutative hypergroups). The most
interesting instance of our problem concerns dilations of the Hecke algebra
$H_n(q)$. It seems that in this case strict dilations may exist only for
$q=p^k$ (with $p$ a prime); it is not known whether nonstrict dilations exist
for other $q$. We also show that the class of finite-dimensional involutive
semisimple bialgebras coincides with the class of semigroup algebras of finite
inverse semigroups.