A lot of research activity has recently taken place around the chase
procedure, due to its usefulness in data integration, data exchange, query
optimization, peer data exchange and data correspondence, to mention a few. As
the chase has been investigated and further developed by a number of research
groups and contributors, many variants of the chase have emerged and associated
results obtained. Due to the heterogeneous nature of the area it is frequently
difficult to verify the scope of each result. In this paper we take closer look
at recent developments, and provide additional results. Our analysis allows us
create a taxonomy of the chase variations and the properties they satisfy.
  Two of the most central problems regarding the chase is termination, and
discovery of restricted classes of sets of dependencies that guarantee
termination of the chase. The search for the restricted classes has been
motivated by a fairly recent result that shows that it is undecidable to
determine whether the chase with a given dependency set will terminate on a
given instance. There is a small dissonance here, since the quest has been for
classes of sets of dependencies guaranteeing termination of the chase on all
instances, even though the latter problem was not known to be undecidable. We
resolve the dissonance in this paper by showing that determining whether the
chase with a given set of dependencies terminates on all instances is
coRE-complete. Our reduction also gives us the aforementioned
instance-dependent RE-completeness result as a byproduct. For one of the
restricted classes, the stratified sets dependencies, we provide new complexity
results for the problem of testing whether a given set of dependencies belongs
to it. These results rectify some previous claims that have occurred in the
literature.