The paper describes a framework for multi-function system testing.
Multi-function system testing is considered as fusion (or revelation) of
clique-like structures. The following sets are considered: (i) subsystems
(system parts or units / components / modules), (ii) system functions and a
subset of system components for each system function, and (iii) function
clusters (some groups of system functions which are used jointly). Test
procedures (as units testing) are used for each subsystem. The procedures lead
to an ordinal result (states, colors) for each component, e.g., [1,2,3,4]
(where 1 corresponds to 'out of service', 2 corresponds to 'major faults', 3
corresponds to 'minor faults', 4 corresponds to 'trouble free service'). Thus,
for each system function a graph over corresponding system components is
examined while taking into account ordinal estimates/colors of the components.
Further, an integrated graph (i.e., colored graph) for each function cluster is
considered (this graph integrates the graphs for corresponding system
functions). For the integrated graph (for each function cluster) structure
revelation problems are under examination (revelation of some subgraphs which
can lead to system faults): (1) revelation of clique and quasi-clique (by
vertices at level 1, 2, etc.; by edges/interconnection existence) and (2)
dynamical problems (when vertex colors are functions of time) are studied as
well: existence of a time interval when clique or quasi-clique can exist.
Numerical examples illustrate the approach and problems.