We present a computational framework for estimating the uncertainty in the
numerical solution of linearized infinite-dimensional statistical inverse
problems. We adopt the Bayesian inference formulation: given observational data
and their uncertainty, the governing forward problem and its uncertainty, and a
prior probability distribution describing uncertainty in the parameter field,
find the posterior probability distribution over the parameter field. The prior
must be chosen appropriately in order to guarantee well-posedness of the
infinite-dimensional inverse problem and facilitate computation of the
posterior. Furthermore, straightforward discretizations may not lead to
convergent approximations of the infinite-dimensional problem. And finally,
solution of the discretized inverse problem via explicit construction of the
covariance matrix is prohibitive due to the need to solve the forward problem
as many times as there are parameters. Our computational framework builds on
the infinite-dimensional formulation proposed by Stuart (A. M. Stuart, Inverse
problems: A Bayesian perspective, Acta Numerica, 19 (2010), pp. 451-559), and
incorporates a number of components aimed at ensuring a convergent
discretization of the underlying infinite-dimensional inverse problem. The
framework additionally incorporates algorithms for manipulating the prior,
constructing a low rank approximation of the data-informed component of the
posterior covariance operator, and exploring the posterior that together ensure
scalability of the entire framework to very high parameter dimensions. We
demonstrate this computational framework on the Bayesian solution of an inverse
problem in 3D global seismic wave propagation with hundreds of thousands of
parameters.