We derive structure-property relationships for methine ("Brooker") dyes
relating the color of the dye and its symmetric parents to its bond alternation
in the ground state and also to the dipole properties associated with its
low-lying charge-resonance (or charge-transfer) transition. We calibrate and
test these relationships on an array of different protonation states of the
green fluorescent protein chromophore motif (an asymmetric halochromic methine
dye) and its symmetric parent dyes. The relationships rely on the assumption
that the diabatic states that define the Platt model for methine dye color
[J.R. Platt, J. Chem. Phys. 25 80 (1956)] can also be distinguished by their
single-double bond alternation and by their charge localization character.
These assumptions are independent of the primary constraint that defines the
diabatic states in the Platt model - specifically, the Brooker deviation rule
for methine dyes [L.G.S. Brooker, Rev. Mod. Phys. 14 275 (1942)]. Taking these
assumptions, we show that the Platt model offers an alternate route to known
structure-property relationships between the bond length alternation and the
quadratic nonlinear polarizability {\beta}. We show also that the Platt model
can be parameterized without the need for synthesis of the symmetric parents of
a given dye, using dipole data obtained through spectroscopic measurements.
This suggests that the Platt model parameters may be used as independent
variables in free-energy relationships for chromophores whose symmetric parents
cannot be synthesized or chromophores strongly bound to biomolecular
environments. The latter category includes several recently characterized
biomolecular probe constructs. We illustrate these concepts by an analysis of
previously reported electroabsorption and second-harmonic generation
experiments on green fluorescent proteins.