Pose Graph Optimization (PGO) is the problem of estimating a set of poses
from pairwise relative measurements. PGO is a nonconvex problem, and currently
no known technique can guarantee the computation of an optimal solution. In
this paper, we show that Lagrangian duality allows computing a globally optimal
solution, under certain conditions that are satisfied in many practical cases.
Our first contribution is to frame the PGO problem in the complex domain. This
makes analysis easier and allows drawing connections with the recent literature
on unit gain graphs. Exploiting this connection we prove non-trival results
about the spectrum of the matrix underlying the problem. The second
contribution is to formulate and analyze the dual problem in the complex
domain. Our analysis shows that the duality gap is connected to the number of
eigenvalues of the penalized pose graph matrix, which arises from the solution
of the dual. We prove that if this matrix has a single eigenvalue in zero, then
(i) the duality gap is zero, (ii) the primal PGO problem has a unique solution,
and (iii) the primal solution can be computed by scaling an eigenvector of the
penalized pose graph matrix. The third contribution is algorithmic: we exploit
the dual problem and propose an algorithm that computes a guaranteed optimal
solution for PGO when the penalized pose graph matrix satisfies the Single Zero
Eigenvalue Property (SZEP). We also propose a variant that deals with the case
in which the SZEP is not satisfied. The fourth contribution is a numerical
analysis. Empirical evidence shows that in the vast majority of cases (100% of
the tests under noise regimes of practical robotics applications) the penalized
pose graph matrix does satisfy the SZEP, hence our approach allows computing
the global optimal solution. Finally, we report simple counterexamples in which
the duality gap is nonzero, and discuss open problems.