Top-k query processing finds a list of k results that have largest scores
w.r.t the user given query, with the assumption that all the k results are
independent to each other. In practice, some of the top-k results returned can
be very similar to each other. As a result some of the top-k results returned
are redundant. In the literature, diversified top-k search has been studied to
return k results that take both score and diversity into consideration. Most
existing solutions on diversified top-k search assume that scores of all the
search results are given, and some works solve the diversity problem on a
specific problem and can hardly be extended to general cases. In this paper, we
study the diversified top-k search problem. We define a general diversified
top-k search problem that only considers the similarity of the search results
themselves. We propose a framework, such that most existing solutions for top-k
query processing can be extended easily to handle diversified top-k search, by
simply applying three new functions, a sufficient stop condition sufficient(),
a necessary stop condition necessary(), and an algorithm for diversified top-k
search on the current set of generated results, div-search-current(). We
propose three new algorithms, namely, div-astar, div-dp, and div-cut to solve
the div-search-current() problem. div-astar is an A* based algorithm, div-dp is
an algorithm that decomposes the results into components which are searched
using div-astar independently and combined using dynamic programming. div-cut
further decomposes the current set of generated results using cut points and
combines the results using sophisticated operations. We conducted extensive
performance studies using two real datasets, enwiki and reuters. Our div-cut
algorithm finds the optimal solution for diversified top-k search problem in
seconds even for k as large as 2,000.