We discuss the concept of a mesoscopic wavefunction, first in a general
context, as the concept of wavefunction has evolved, and then in a more
specific context of modeling. The paper concentrates on a simple, abstract
one-dimensional situation. In this context, there are three problems to be
considered. In the first problem, we consider the construction of a
wavefunction as a problem of interpolation, with information content in a
multipoint perspective at finitely many discrete points and complete
uncertainty elsewhere. The wavefunction is conceived abstractly as our unified
subjective picture of information content. Each point of information is
essentially free and independent of all others. This is a wavefunction for a
classical system at the mesoscopic threshold. In the second problem, we
consider how, using the concept of scaling and renormalization, the classical
system can be brought to represent a mesoscopic level of integrated
information, with points still treated as free, but now with the need to
consider each point as an extended region, with possible boundary overlaps. We
then, in the section on the third problem, consider modeling this renormalized
system as an Ising-like system of interacting spins. This is the final picture
we develop for a mesoscopic wavefunction. This can be viewed from the
perspective of the evolution of the concept of wavefunction at the microscopic
level, and we briefly discuss the new point of view being developed here.
Finally, we present a discussion concerning the bearing of this on Gibbs
phenomenon.