Motivation: In mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics, protein
quantification and protein identification are two major computational problems.
To quantify the protein abundance, a list of proteins must be firstly inferred
from the sample. Then the relative or absolute protein abundance is estimated
with quantification methods, such as spectral counting. Until now, researchers
have been dealing with these two processes separately. In fact, they are two
sides of same coin in the sense that truly present proteins are those proteins
with non-zero abundances. Then, one interesting question is if we regard the
protein inference problem as a special protein quantification problem, is it
possible to achieve better protein inference performance?
  Contribution: In this paper, we investigate the feasibility of using protein
quantification methods to solve the protein inference problem. Protein
inference is to determine whether each candidate protein is present in the
sample or not. Protein quantification is to calculate the abundance of each
protein. Naturally, the absent proteins should have zero abundances. Thus, we
argue that the protein inference problem can be viewed as a special case of
protein quantification problem: present proteins are those proteins with
non-zero abundances. Based on this idea, our paper tries to use three very
simple protein quantification methods to solve the protein inference problem
effectively.
  Results: The experimental results on six datasets show that these three
methods are competitive with previous protein inference algorithms. This
demonstrates that it is plausible to take the protein inference problem as a
special case of protein quantification, which opens the door of devising more
effective protein inference algorithms from a quantification perspective.