This paper presents two new Bayesian estimation techniques for hidden
Potts-Markov random fields, with application to fast K-class image
segmentation. The techniques are derived by first conducting a
small-variance-asymptotic (SVA) analysis of an augmented Bayesian model in
which the spatial regularisation and the integer-constrained terms of the Potts
model are decoupled. The evaluation of this SVA Bayesian estimator is then
relaxed into a partially convex problem that can be computed efficiently by
iteratively solving a total-variation denoising problem and a least-squares
clustering (K-means) problem, both of which can be solved straightforwardly,
even in high-dimensions, and with parallel computing techniques. This leads to
a fast semi-supervised Bayesian image segmentation methodology that can be
easily applied in large 2D and 3D scenarios or in applications requiring low
computing times. Following on from this, we extend the proposed Bayesian model
and inference technique to the case where the value of the spatial
regularisation parameter is unknown and removed from the model by
marginalisation. This leads to a new fully unsupervised fast Bayesian
segmentation algorithm in which the strength of the spatial regularisation is
adapted automatically to the observed image during the inference procedure.
Experimental results on synthetic and real images, as well as extensive
comparisons with state-of-the-art algorithms, confirm that the proposed
semi-supervised and unsupervised methodologies offer extremely fast convergence
and produce accurate segmentation results, with the important additional
advantage of self-adjusting regularisation parameters.