Joint channel and rate allocation with power minimization in orthogonal
frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) has attracted extensive attention.
Most of the research has dealt with the development of sub-optimal but
low-complexity algorithms. In this paper, the contributions comprise new
insights from revisiting tractability aspects of computing optimum. Previous
complexity analyses have been limited by assumptions of fixed power on each
subcarrier, or power-rate functions that locally grow arbitrarily fast. The
analysis under the former assumption does not generalize to problem
tractability with variable power, whereas the latter assumption prohibits the
result from being applicable to well-behaved power-rate functions. As the first
contribution, we overcome the previous limitations by rigorously proving the
problem's NP-hardness for the representative logarithmic rate function. Next,
we extend the proof to reach a much stronger result, namely that the problem
remains NP-hard, even if the channels allocated to each user is restricted to a
consecutive block with given size. We also prove that, under these
restrictions, there is a special case with polynomial-time tractability. Then,
we treat the problem class where the channels can be partitioned into an
arbitrarily large but constant number of groups, each having uniform gain for
every individual user. For this problem class, we present a polynomial-time
algorithm and prove optimality guarantee. In addition, we prove that the
recognition of this class is polynomial-time solvable.