Glassy behavior is one of the main open problems in condensed matter physics.
In this thesis, we approach the problem by studying spin-glasses and colloids,
using several complementary strategies. From the point of view of model
building, we propose a new model, the hypercube model, which is mean-field but
defined in a metric space. We show that, also in Mean Field, the spin-glass
non-equilibrium dynamics is a domain-growth process very similar to its
three-dimensional counterpart. We also consider spin-glasses in three spatial
dimensions, focusing on temperature chaos. Thanks to the low-temperature
configurations equilibrated with Janus, we show that temperature chaos can be
aptly described through a large-deviations functional. The finite-size scaling
behavior can be predicted in details from this functional, including the
pre-asymptotic regime where chaos is driven by rare events. We also address the
problem of finding new, efficient algorithms to study glassy systems. In
particular, in the context of the Quantum-Adiabatic algorithm we discuss
strategies for bypassing the "first-order bottleneck". Our approach is
successfully put to work on the p-spin ferromagnetic model. We also show how to
use tethered Monte Carlo (a recent refinement of Umbrella Sampling) to handle
problems with more than one order parameter, such as hard-spheres
crystallization. We study the crystallization transition equilibrating the
largest systems to date, and obtaining very accurate determinations of the
coexistence pressure and the interfacial free-energy. We also show our efforts
to characterize the solid phase in a system of soft spheres at very high
polydispersity.