We consider the heat transfer problem associated with a periodic array of
extended surfaces (fins) subjected to convection heat transfer with a uniform
heat transfer coefficient. Our analysis differs from the classical approach as
(i) we consider two-dimensional heat conduction and (ii) the base of the fin is
included in the heat transfer process. The problem is modeled as an arbitrary
two-dimensional channel whose upper surface is flat and isothermal, while the
lower surface has a periodic array of extensions/fins which are subjected to
heat convection with a uniform heat transfer coefficient. Using the generalized
Schwarz-Christoffel transformation the domain is mapped onto a straight channel
where the heat conduction problem is solved using the boundary element method.
The boundary element solution is subsequently used to pose a shape optimization
problem, i.e. an inverse problem, where the objective function is the
normalized Shape Factor and the variables of the optimization are the
parameters of the Schwarz-Christoffel transformation. Numerical optimization
suggests that the optimum fin is infinitely thin and that there exists a
critical Biot number that characterizes whether the addition of the fin would
result in an enhancement of heat transfer. The existence of a critical Biot
number was investigated for the case of rectangular fins. {\bf It is concluded
that a rectangular fin is effective if its thickness is less than} $1.64 k/h$,
where the $h$ is the heat transfer coefficient and $k$ is the thermal
conductivity. This result is independent of both the thickness of the base and
the length of the fin.