Developed by Buchberger for commutative polynomial rings, Groebner Bases are
frequently applied to solve algorithmic problems, such as the congruence
problem for ideals. Until now, these ideas have been transmitted to different
in part non-commutative and non-Noetherian algebras. Most of these approaches
require an admissible ordering on terms. In this Ph.D.thesis, the concept of
Groebner bases is generalized to finitely generated monoid and group rings.
Reduction methods are applied to represent monoid and group elements and to
describe the right-ideal congruence in the corresponding monoid and group
rings, respectively. In general, monoids and especially groups do not offer
admissible orderings anymore. Thus, the definition of an appropriate reduction
relation is confronted with the following problems: On the one hand, it is
difficult to guarantee termination. On the other hand, reduction steps are not
compatible with multiplication anymore, so that the reduction relation does not
necessarily generate a right-ideal congruence. In this thesis, several
possibilities of defining reduction relations are presented and evaluated
w.r.t. the described problems. The concept of saturation (i.e. the extension of
a set of polynomials in such a way that the right-ideal congruence it generates
can be captured by reduction) is applied to characterize Groebner bases
relatively to the different reductions by s-polynomials. Using these concepts
and special structural properties, it was possible to define special reduction
relations for special classes of monoids (e.g., finite, commutative, or free)
and for different classes of groups (e.g., finite, free, plain, context-free,
or nilpotent) and to develop terminating algorithms for computing Groebner
bases w.r.t. these reduction relations.