In this paper, we investigate wireless powered communication network for OFDM
systems, where a hybrid access point (H-AP) broadcasts energy signals to users
in the downlink, and the users transmit information signals to the H-AP in the
uplink based on an orthogonal frequency division multiple access scheme. We
consider a fullduplex H-AP which simultaneously transmits energy signals and
receives information signals. In this scenario, we address a joint subcarrier
scheduling and power allocation problem to maximize the sum-rate under two
cases: perfect self-interference cancelation (SIC) where the H-AP fully
eliminates its self interference (SI) and imperfect SIC where the residual SI
exist. In general, the problems for both cases are non-convex due to the
subcarrier scheduling, and thus it requires an exhaustive search method, which
is prohibitively complicated to obtain the globally optimal solution. In order
to reduce the complexity, for the perfect SIC scenario, we jointly optimize
subcarrier scheduling and power allocation by applying the Lagrange duality
method. Next, for the imperfect SIC case, the problem is more complicated due
to the SI at the H-AP. To solve the problem, we propose an iterative algorithm
based on the projected gradient method. Simulation results show that the
proposed algorithm for the case of perfect SIC exhibits only negligible
sum-rate performance loss compared to the optimal algorithm, and the proposed
iterative algorithm for the imperfect SIC case offers a significant performance
gain over conventional schemes.