In this paper we study the Dirichlet problem for fully nonlinear second-order
equations on a riemannian manifold. As in a previous paper we define equations
via closed subsets of the 2-jet bundle. Basic existence and uniqueness theorems
are established in a wide variety of settings. However, the emphasis is on
starting with a constant coefficient equation as a model, which then
universally determines an equation on every riemannian manifold which is
equipped with a topological reduction of the structure group to the invariance
group of the model. For example, this covers all branches of the homogeneous
complex Monge-Ampere equation on an almost complex hermitian manifold X.
  In general, for an equation F on a manifold X and a smooth domain D in X, we
give geometric conditions which imply that the Dirichlet problem on D is
uniquely solvable for all continuous boundary functions. We begin by
introducing a weakened form of comparison which has the advantage that local
implies global. We then associate to F two natural "conical subequations": a
monotonicity subequation M and the asymptotic interior of F. If X carries a
global M-subharmonic function, then weak comparison implies full comparison.
The asymptotic interior of F is used to formulate boundary convexity and
provide barriers. In combination the Dirichlet problem becomes uniquely
solvable as claimed.
  A considerable portion of the paper is concerned with specific examples. They
include a wide variety of equations which make sense on any riemannian
manifold, and many which hold universally on almost complex or quaternionic
hermitian manifolds, or topologically calibrated manifolds.