Cosmic strings arising from breaking of the $U(1)_{B-L}$ gauge symmetry that
occurs in a wide variety of unified models can carry zero modes of heavy
Majorana neutrinos. Decaying and/or repeatedly self-interacting closed loops of
these ``$B-L$'' cosmic strings can be a non-thermal source of heavy
right-handed Majorana neutrinos whose decay can contribute to the observed
baryon asymmetry of the Universe (BAU) via the leptogenesis route. The $B-L$
cosmic strings are expected in GUT models such as SO(10), where they can be
formed at an intermediate stage of symmetry breaking well below the GUT scale
$\sim 10^{16}$ GeV; such light strings are not excluded by the CMB anisotropy
data and may well exist. We estimate the contribution of $B-L$ cosmic string
loops to the baryon-to-photon ratio of the Universe in the light of current
knowledge on neutrino masses and mixings implied by atmospheric and solar
neutrino measurements. We find that $B-L$ cosmic string loops can contribute
significantly to the BAU for $U(1)_{B-L}$ symmetry breaking scale
$\eta_{B-L}\gsim 1.7\times 10^{11}\gev$. At the same time, in order for the
contribution of decaying $B-L$ cosmic string loops not to exceed the observed
baryon-to-photon ratio inferred from the recent WMAP results, the lightest
heavy right-handed Majorana neutrino mass $M_1$ must satisfy the constraint
$M_1 \leq 2.4 \times 10^{12}(\eta_{B-L}/10^{13}\gev)^{1/2}\gev$. This may have
interesting implications for the associated Yukawa couplings in the heavy
neutrino sector and consequently for the light neutrino masses generated
through see-saw mechanism.