Let $S$ be a point set in the plane such that each of its elements is colored
either red or blue. A matching of $S$ with rectangles is any set of
pairwise-disjoint axis-aligned rectangles such that each rectangle contains
exactly two points of $S$. Such a matching is monochromatic if every rectangle
contains points of the same color, and is bichromatic if every rectangle
contains points of different colors. In this paper we study the following two
problems:
  1. Find a maximum monochromatic matching of $S$ with rectangles.
  2. Find a maximum bichromatic matching of $S$ with rectangles.
  For each problem we provide a polynomial-time approximation algorithm that
constructs a matching with at least $1/4$ of the number of rectangles of an
optimal matching. We show that the first problem is $\mathsf{NP}$-hard even if
either the matching rectangles are restricted to axis-aligned segments or $S$
is in general position, that is, no two points of $S$ share the same $x$ or $y$
coordinate. We further show that the second problem is also $\mathsf{NP}$-hard,
even if $S$ is in general position. These $\mathsf{NP}$-hardness results follow
by showing that deciding the existence of a perfect matching is
$\mathsf{NP}$-complete in each case. The approximation results are based on a
relation of our problem with the problem of finding a maximum independent set
in a family of axis-aligned rectangles. With this paper we extend previous ones
on matching one-colored points with rectangles and squares, and matching
two-colored points with segments. Furthermore, using our techniques, we prove
that it is $\mathsf{NP}$-complete to decide a perfect matching with rectangles
in the case where all points have the same color, solving an open problem of
Bereg, Mutsanas, and Wolff [CGTA (2009)].