Canonical correlation analysis (CCA) is a classical and important
multivariate technique for exploring the relationship between two sets of
variables. It has applications in many fields including genomics and imaging,
to extract meaningful features as well as to use the features for subsequent
analysis. This paper considers adaptive and computationally tractable
estimation of leading sparse canonical directions when the ambient dimensions
are high. Three intrinsically related problems are studied to fully address the
topic. First, we establish the minimax rates of the problem under prediction
loss. Separate minimax rates are obtained for canonical directions of each set
of random variables under mild conditions. There is no structural assumption
needed on the marginal covariance matrices as long as they are well
conditioned. Second, we propose a computationally feasible two-stage estimation
procedure, which consists of a convex programming based initialization stage
and a group-Lasso based refinement stage, to attain the minimax rates under an
additional sample size condition. Finally, we provide evidence that the
additional sample size condition is essentially necessary for any randomized
polynomial-time estimator to be consistent, assuming hardness of the Planted
Clique detection problem. The computational lower bound is faithful to the
Gaussian models used in the paper, which is achieved by a novel construction of
the reduction scheme and an asymptotic equivalence theory for Gaussian
discretization that is necessary for computational complexity to be
well-defined. As a byproduct, we also obtain computational lower bound for the
sparse PCA problem under the Gaussian spiked covariance model. This bridges a
gap in the sparse PCA literature.