The primary relaxation in glass forming supercooled liquids (SCLs) above the
glass transformation temperature T_g is discussed in terms of the first-order
(steepness) and the second-order (curvature) temperature derivatives of the
observed primary relaxation timescale. We report new insights into the problem
of the domain of the Vogel-Fulcher-Tamman (VFT) equation, raised by Stickel et
al. (J. Chem. Phys.,1995, 1996) and discussed by Richert and Angell (ibid.,
1998). A new ergodic-cluster Gaussian statistical approach to the problem is
given based on Onsager's thermodynamic principle. The primary relaxation is
described by the VFT equation below the crossover temperature T_c (known from
mode coupling theory (MCT)), and above T_c by an extended (VFTE) equation
obtained after accounting for cluster-size fluctuations. The timescale is
parametrized by a finite number of observable parameters such as the steepness
function m_T, the MCT slowing-down exponent gamma_c, and the VFT and VFTE
strength indices D_g and D_c. The latter are defined at T_g and T_c,
respectively, for the strongly and moderately SCL states, which show absolute
thermodynamic instability at the same VFT temperature T_0, associated with the
Kauzmann temperature. For both states the limiting cluster-size characteristics
are derived from experiment. A thermodynamic-dynamic correspondence is
established between the dynamic VFT equation and the thermodynamic Adam and
Gibbs model. The problem of the irregular SCLs, which are not consistent with
the standard VFT equation, such as salol, ortho-terphenyl, and
bis-methoxy-enyl-cyclohexane, is also discussed.