We review the application of field-theoretic renormalization group (RG)
methods to the study of fluctuations in reaction-diffusion problems. We first
investigate the physical origin of universality in these systems, before
comparing RG methods to other available analytic techniques, including exact
solutions and Smoluchowski-type approximations. Starting from the microscopic
reaction-diffusion master equation, we then pedagogically detail the mapping to
a field theory for the single-species reaction k A -> l A (l < k). We employ
this particularly simple but non-trivial system to introduce the
field-theoretic RG tools, including the diagrammatic perturbation expansion,
renormalization, and Callan-Symanzik RG flow equation. We demonstrate how these
techniques permit the calculation of universal quantities such as density decay
exponents and amplitudes via perturbative eps = d_c - d expansions with respect
to the upper critical dimension d_c. With these basics established, we then
provide an overview of more sophisticated applications to multiple species
reactions, disorder effects, L'evy flights, persistence problems, and the
influence of spatial boundaries. We also analyze field-theoretic approaches to
nonequilibrium phase transitions separating active from absorbing states. We
focus particularly on the generic directed percolation universality class, as
well as on the most prominent exception to this class: even-offspring branching
and annihilating random walks. Finally, we summarize the state of the field and
present our perspective on outstanding problems for the future.