In the constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) corresponding to a constraint
language (i.e., a set of relations) $\Gamma$, the goal is to find an assignment
of values to variables so that a given set of constraints specified by
relations from $\Gamma$ is satisfied. The complexity of this problem has
received substantial amount of attention in the past decade. In this paper we
study the fixed-parameter tractability of constraint satisfaction problems
parameterized by the size of the solution in the following sense: one of the
possible values, say 0, is "free," and the number of variables allowed to take
other, "expensive," values is restricted. A size constraint requires that
exactly $k$ variables take nonzero values. We also study a more refined version
of this restriction: a global cardinality constraint prescribes how many
variables have to be assigned each particular value. We study the parameterized
complexity of these types of CSPs where the parameter is the required number
$k$ of nonzero variables. As special cases, we can obtain natural and
well-studied parameterized problems such as Independent Set, Vertex Cover,
d-Hitting Set, Biclique, etc.
  In the case of constraint languages closed under substitution of constants,
we give a complete characterization of the fixed-parameter tractable cases of
CSPs with size constraints, and we show that all the remaining problems are
W[1]-hard. For CSPs with cardinality constraints, we obtain a similar
classification, but for some of the problems we are only able to show that they
are Biclique-hard. The exact parameterized complexity of the Biclique problem
is a notorious open problem, although it is believed to be W[1]-hard.