Bulk polycrystalline Ni-substituted SmFe1-xNixAsO (x = 0.0 to 1.0) samples
are synthesized by solid state reaction route in an evacuated sealed quartz
tube. The cell volume decreases with increase of Ni content in SmFe1-xNixAsO,
thus indicating successful substitution of smaller ion Ni at Fe site. The
resistivity measurements showed that the spin-density-wave (SDW) transition is
suppressed drastically with Ni doping and subsequently superconductivity is
achieved in a narrow range of x from 0.04 to 0.10 with maximum Tc of 9K at x =
0.06. For higher content of Ni (x > 0.10), the system becomes metallic and
superconductivity is not observed down to 2K. The magneto-transport [R(T)H]
measurements exhibited the upper critical field [Hc2(0)] of up to 300kOe. The
flux flow activation energy (U/kB) is estimated ~98.37K for 0.1T field.
Magnetic susceptibility measurements also confirms bulk superconductivity for x
= 0.04, 0.06 and 0.08 samples. The lower critical field (Hc1) is around 100Oe
at 2K for x = 0.06 sample. Heat capacity CP(T) measurements exhibited a hump
like transition pertaining to SDW in Fe planes at around 150K and an AFM
ordering of Sm spins below temperature of 5.4K for ordered Sm spins [TN(Sm)].
Though, the SDW hump for Fe spins disappears for Ni doped samples, the TN (Sm)
remains unaltered but with a reduced transition height, i.e., decreased
entropy. In conclusion, complete phase diagram of SmFe1-xNixAsO (x = 0.0 to
1.0) is studied in terms of its structural, electrical, magnetic and thermal
properties.