The problem of bipartite ranking, where instances are labeled positive or
negative and the goal is to learn a scoring function that minimizes the
probability of mis-ranking a pair of positive and negative instances (or
equivalently, that maximizes the area under the ROC curve), has been widely
studied in recent years. A dominant theoretical and algorithmic framework for
the problem has been to reduce bipartite ranking to pairwise classification; in
particular, it is well known that the bipartite ranking regret can be
formulated as a pairwise classification regret, which in turn can be upper
bounded using usual regret bounds for classification problems. Recently,
Kotlowski et al. (2011) showed regret bounds for bipartite ranking in terms of
the regret associated with balanced versions of the standard (non-pairwise)
logistic and exponential losses. In this paper, we show that such
(non-pairwise) surrogate regret bounds for bipartite ranking can be obtained in
terms of a broad class of proper (composite) losses that we term as strongly
proper. Our proof technique is much simpler than that of Kotlowski et al.
(2011), and relies on properties of proper (composite) losses as elucidated
recently by Reid and Williamson (2010, 2011) and others. Our result yields
explicit surrogate bounds (with no hidden balancing terms) in terms of a
variety of strongly proper losses, including for example logistic, exponential,
squared and squared hinge losses as special cases. We also obtain tighter
surrogate bounds under certain low-noise conditions via a recent result of
Clemencon and Robbiano (2011).