Finding heavy-elements (heavy-hitters) in streaming data is one of the
central, and well-understood tasks. Despite the importance of this problem,
when considering the sliding windows model of streaming (where elements
eventually expire) the problem of finding L_2-heavy elements has remained
completely open despite multiple papers and considerable success in finding
L_1-heavy elements.
  In this paper, we develop the first poly-logarithmic-memory algorithm for
finding L_2-heavy elements in sliding window model. Since L_2 heavy elements
play a central role for many fundamental streaming problems (such as frequency
moments), we believe our method would be extremely useful for many
sliding-windows algorithms and applications. For example, our technique allows
us not only to find L_2-heavy elements, but also heavy elements with respect to
any L_p for 0<p<2 on sliding windows. Thus, our paper completely resolves the
question of finding L_p-heavy elements for sliding windows with
poly-logarithmic memory for all values of p since it is well known that for p>2
this task is impossible.
  Our method may have other applications as well. We demonstrate a broader
applicability of our novel yet simple method on two additional examples: we
show how to obtain a sliding window approximation of other properties such as
the similarity of two streams, or the fraction of elements that appear exactly
a specified number of times within the window (the rarity problem). In these
two illustrative examples of our method, we replace the current expected memory
bounds with worst case bounds.