We consider both finite-state game graphs and recursive game graphs (or
pushdown game graphs), that can model the control flow of sequential programs
with recursion, with multi-dimensional mean-payoff objectives. In pushdown
games two types of strategies are relevant: global strategies, that depend on
the entire global history; and modular strategies, that have only local memory
and thus do not depend on the context of invocation. We present solutions to
several fundamental algorithmic questions and our main contributions are as
follows: (1) We show that finite-state multi-dimensional mean-payoff games can
be solved in polynomial time if the number of dimensions and the maximal
absolute value of the weight is fixed; whereas if the number of dimensions is
arbitrary, then problem is already known to be coNP-complete. (2) We show that
pushdown graphs with multi-dimensional mean-payoff objectives can be solved in
polynomial time. (3) For pushdown games under global strategies both single and
multi-dimensional mean-payoff objectives problems are known to be undecidable,
and we show that under modular strategies the multi-dimensional problem is also
undecidable (whereas under modular strategies the single dimensional problem is
NP-complete). We show that if the number of modules, the number of exits, and
the maximal absolute value of the weight is fixed, then pushdown games under
modular strategies with single dimensional mean-payoff objectives can be solved
in polynomial time, and if either of the number of exits or the number of
modules is not bounded, then the problem is NP-hard. (4) Finally we show that a
fixed parameter tractable algorithm for finite-state multi-dimensional
mean-payoff games or pushdown games under modular strategies with
single-dimensional mean-payoff objectives would imply the solution of the
long-standing open problem of fixed parameter tractability of parity games.