Sending private messages over communication environments under surveillance
is an important challenge in communication security and has attracted
attentions of cryptographers through time. We believe that resources other than
cryptographic keys can be used for communication privacy. We consider private
message transmission (PMT) in an abstract multipath communication model between
two communicants, Alice and Bob, in the presence of an eavesdropper, Eve. Alice
and Bob have pre-shared keys and Eve is computationally unbounded. There are a
total of $n$ paths and the three parties can have simultaneous access to at
most $t_a$, $t_b$, and $t_e$ paths. The parties can switch their paths after
every $\lambda$ bits of communication. We study perfect (P)-PMT versus
asymptotically-perfect (AP)-PMT protocols. The former has zero tolerance of
transmission error and leakage, whereas the latter allows for positive error
and leakage that tend to zero as the message length increases. We derive the
necessary and sufficient conditions under which P-PMT and AP-PMT are possible.
We also introduce explicit P-PMT and AP-PMT constructions. Our results show
AP-PMT protocols attain much higher information rates than P-PMT ones.
Interestingly, AP-PMT is possible even in poorest condition where $t_a=t_b=1$
and $t_e=n-1$. It remains however an open question whether the derived rates
can be improved by more sophisticated AP-PMT protocols.
  We study applications of our results to private communication over the
real-life scenarios of multiple-frequency links and multiple-route networks. We
show practical examples of such scenarios that can be abstracted by the
multipath setting: Our results prove the possibility of keyless
information-theoretic private message transmission at rates $17\%$ and $20\%$
for the two example scenarios, respectively. We discuss open problems and
future work at the end.