Iron emission lines at 6.4-6.97 keV, identified with Kalpha radiative
transitions, are among the strongest discrete features in the X-ray band. These
are one of the most powerful probes to infer the properties of the plasma in
the innermost part of the accretion disk around a compact object. In this paper
we present a recent Suzaku observation, 100-ks effective exposure, of the atoll
source and X-ray burster 4U 1705-44, where we clearly detect signatures of a
reflection component which is distorted by the high-velocity motion in the
accretion disk. The reflection component consists of a broad iron line at about
6.4 keV and a Compton bump at high X-ray energies, around 20 keV. All these
features are consistently fitted with a reflection model, and we find that in
the hard state the smearing parameters are remarkably similar to those found in
a previous XMM-Newton observation performed in the soft state. In particular,
we find that the inner disk radius is Rin = 17 +/- 5 Rg (where Rg is the
Gravitational radius, GM/c^2), the emissivity dependence from the disk radius
is -2.5 +/- 0.5, the inclination angle with respect to the line of sight is i =
43 +/- 5 degrees, and the outer radius of the emitting region in the disk is
Rout > 200 Rg. We note that the accretion disk does not appear to be truncated
at large radii, although the source is in a hard state at about 3 % of the
Eddington luminosity for a neutron star. We also find evidence of a broad
emission line at low energies, at 3.03 +/- 0.03 keV, compatible with emission
from mildly ionized Argon (Ar XVI-XVII). Argon transitions are not included in
the self-consistent reflection models that we used and we therefore added an
extra component to our model to fit this feature. The low energy line appears
compatible with being smeared by the same inner disk parameters found for the
reflection component.