Consider a setting where possibly sensitive information sent over a path in a
network is visible to every {neighbor} of the path, i.e., every neighbor of
some node on the path, thus including the nodes on the path itself. The
exposure of a path $P$ can be measured as the number of nodes adjacent to it,
denoted by $N[P]$. A path is said to be secluded if its exposure is small. A
similar measure can be applied to other connected subgraphs, such as Steiner
trees connecting a given set of terminals. Such subgraphs may be relevant due
to considerations of privacy, security or revenue maximization. This paper
considers problems related to minimum exposure connectivity structures such as
paths and Steiner trees. It is shown that on unweighted undirected $n$-node
graphs, the problem of finding the minimum exposure path connecting a given
pair of vertices is strongly inapproximable, i.e., hard to approximate within a
factor of $O(2^{\log^{1-\epsilon}n})$ for any $\epsilon>0$ (under an
appropriate complexity assumption), but is approximable with ratio
$\sqrt{\Delta}+3$, where $\Delta$ is the maximum degree in the graph. One of
our main results concerns the class of bounded-degree graphs, which is shown to
exhibit the following interesting dichotomy. On the one hand, the minimum
exposure path problem is NP-hard on node-weighted or directed bounded-degree
graphs (even when the maximum degree is 4). On the other hand, we present a
polynomial algorithm (based on a nontrivial dynamic program) for the problem on
unweighted undirected bounded-degree graphs. Likewise, the problem is shown to
be polynomial also for the class of (weighted or unweighted) bounded-treewidth
graphs.