We extend the concept of polynomial time approximation algorithms to apply
to problems for hierarchically specified graphs, many of which are
PSPACE-complete. Assuming P != PSPACE, the existence or nonexistence of such
efficient approximation algorithms is characterized, for several standard
graph theoretic and combinatorial problems. We present polynomial time
approximation algorithms for several standard PSPACE-hard problems considered
in the literature. In contrast, we show that unless P = PSPACE, there is no
polynomial time epsilon-approximation for any epsilon>0, for several other
problems, when the instances are specified hierarchically. We present
polynomial time approximation algorithms for the following problems when the
graphs are specified hierarchically:  {minimum vertex cover}, {maximum 3SAT},
{weighted max cut}, {minimum maximal matching}, {bounded degree maximum
independent set}
  In contrast, we show that unless P = PSPACE, there is no polynomial time
epsilon-approximation for any epsilon>0, for the following problems when the
instances are specified hierarchically: {the number of true gates in a
monotone acyclic circuit when all input values are specified} and  {the
optimal value of the objective function of a linear program} It is also shown
that unless P = PSPACE, a performance guarantee of less than 2 cannot be
obtained in polynomial time for the following problems when the instances are
specified hierarchically: {high degree subgraph}, {k-vertex connected
subgraph}, and {k-edge connected subgraph}