For every Finsler metric $F$ we associate a Riemannian metric $g_F$ (called
the Binet-Legendre metric). The transformation $F \mapsto g_F$ is $C^0$-stable
and has good smoothness properties, in contrast to previous constructions. The
Riemannian metric $g_F$ also behaves nicely under conformal or bilipshitz
deformation of the Finsler metric $F$. These properties makes it a powerful
tool in Finsler geometry and we illustrate that by solving a number of named
Finslerian geometric problems. We also generalize and give new and shorter
proofs of a number of known results. In particular we answer a question of M.
Matsumoto about local conformal mapping between two Minkowski spaces, we
describe all possible conformal self maps and all self similarities on a
Finsler manifold. We also classify all compact conformally flat Finsler
manifolds, solve a conjecture of S. Deng and Z. Hou on the Berwaldian character
of locally symmetric Finsler spaces, and extend the classic result of H.C. Wang
about the maximal dimension of the isometry groups of Finsler manifolds to
manifolds of all dimensions.
  Most proofs in this paper go along the following scheme: using the
correspondence $F \mapsto g_F$we reduce the Finslerian problem to a similar
problem for the Binet-Legendre metric, which is easier and is already solved in
most cases we consider. The solution of the Riemannian problem provides us with
the additional information that helps to solve the initial Finslerian problem.
  Our methods apply even in the absence of the strong convexity assumption
usually assumed in Finsler geometry. The smoothness hypothesis can also be
replaced by that of partial smoothness, a notion we introduce in the paper. Our
results apply therefore to a vast class of Finsler metrics not usually
considered in the Finsler literature.