Motivated by the discrepancy between satellite observations of coherent
westward propagating surface features and Rossby wave theory, this paper
revisits the planetary wave propagation problem, taking into account the
effects of lateral buoyancy gradients at the ocean's surface. The standard
theory for long baroclinic Rossby waves is based on an expansion of the
quasigeostrophic stretching operator in normal modes, $\phi_n(z)$, satisfying a
Neumann boundary condition at the surface, $\phi_n'(0) = 0$. Buoyancy gradients
are, by thermal wind balance, proportional to the vertical derivative of the
streamfunction, thus such modes are unable to represent ubiquitous lateral
buoyancy gradients in the ocean's mixed layer. Here, we re-derive the wave
propagation problem in terms of an expansion in a recently-developed
"surface-aware" (SA) basis that can account for buoyancy anomalies at the
ocean's surface. The problem is studied in the context of an idealized
Charney-like baroclinic wave problem set in an oceanic context, where a surface
mean buoyancy gradient interacts with a constant interior potential vorticity
gradient that results from both $\beta$ and the curvature of the mean shear.
The wave frequencies, growth rates and phases are systematically compared to
those computed from a two-layer model, a truncated expansion in standard
baroclinic modes and to a high-vertical resolution calculation that represents
the true solution. The full solution generally shows faster wave propagation
when lateral surface gradients are present. Moreover, the wave problem in the
SA basis best captures the full solution, even with just a two or three modes.