In this paper an attempt has been made to identify most important human
resource factors and propose a diagnostic model based on the back-propagation
and connectionist model approaches of artificial neural network (ANN). The
focus of the study is on the mobile -communication industry of India. The ANN
based approach is particularly important because conventional approaches (such
as algorithmic) to the problem solving have their inherent disadvantages. The
algorithmic approach is well-suited to the problems that are well-understood
and known solution(s). On the other hand the ANNs have learning by example and
processing capabilities similar to that of a human brain. ANN has been followed
due to its inherent advantage over conversion algorithmic like approaches and
having capabilities, training and human like intuitive decision making
capabilities. Therefore, this ANN based approach is likely to help researchers
and organizations to reach a better solution to the problem of managing the
human resource. The study is particularly important as many studies have been
carried in developed countries but there is a shortage of such studies in
developing nations like India. Here, a model has been derived using
connectionist-ANN approach and improved and verified via back-propagation
algorithm. This suggested ANN based model can be used for testing the success
and failure human factors in any of the communication Industry. Results have
been obtained on the basis of connectionist model, which has been further
refined by BPNN to an accuracy of 99.99%. Any company to predict failure due to
HR factors can directly deploy this model.