In this article we consider the inversion problem for polynomially computable
discrete functions. These functions describe behavior of many discrete systems
and are used in model checking, hardware verification, cryptanalysis, computer
biology and other domains. Quite often it is necessary to invert these
functions, i.e. to find an unknown preimage if an image and algorithm of
function computation are given. In general case this problem is computationally
intractable. However, many of it's special cases are very important in
practical applications. Thus development of algorithms that are applicable to
these special cases is of importance. The practical applicability of such
algorithms can be validated by their ability to solve the problems that are
considered to be computationally hard (for example cryptanalysis problems). In
this article we propose the technology of solving the inversion problem for
polynomially computable discrete functions. This technology was implemented in
distributed computing environments (parallel clusters and Grid-systems). It is
based on reducing the inversion problem for the considered function to some SAT
problem. We describe a general approach to coarse-grained parallelization for
obtained SAT problems. Efficiency of each parallelization scheme is determined
by the means of a special predictive function. The proposed technology was
validated by successful solving of cryptanalysis problems for some keystream
generators. The main practical result of this work is a complete cryptanalysis
of keystream generator A5/1 which was performed in a Grid system specially
built for this task.