In a Vehicular Ad-hoc Network (VANET), the amount of interference from
neighboring nodes to a communication link is governed by the vehicle density
dynamics in vicinity and transmission probabilities of terminals. It is obvious
that vehicles are distributed non-homogeneously along a road segment due to
traffic controls and speed limits at different portions of the road. The common
assumption of homogeneous node distribution in the network in most of the
previous work in mobile ad-hoc networks thus appears to be inappropriate in
VANETs. In light of the inadequacy, we present in this paper an original
methodology to study the performance of VANETs with practical vehicle
distribution in urban environment. Specifically, we introduce the stochastic
traffic model to characterize the general vehicular traffic flow as well as the
randomness of individual vehicles, from which we can acquire the mean dynamics
and the probability distribution of vehicular density. As illustrative
examples, we demonstrate how the density knowledge from the stochastic traffic
model can be utilized to derive the throughput and progress performance of
three routing strategies in different channel access protocols. We confirm the
accuracy of the analytical results through extensive simulations. Our results
demonstrate the applicability of the proposed methodology on modeling protocol
performance, and shed insight into the performance analysis of other
transmission protocols and network configurations in vehicular networks.
Furthermore, we illustrate that the optimal transmission probability for
optimized network performance can be obtained as a function of the location
space from our results. Such information can be computed by road-side nodes and
then broadcasted to road users for optimized multi-hop packet transmission in
the communication network.