We study approximating properties of the amplitude and frequency operators
$($sums$)$ of the form $$ \sum\nolimits_{k=1}^n \mu_k h(\lambda_k z), \qquad
\mu_k,\lambda_k\in \mathbb{C}, $$ where $h(z)=\sum_{m=0}^{\infty} h_m z^m$,
$h_m\ne 0$, is a fixed (basis) function, analytic in a neighbourhood of the
origin. In particular, we use such sums for a $2n$-multiple Pad\'{e}
interpolation at the node $z=0$ of analytic functions $f(z)=\sum_{m=0}^{\infty}
f_m z^m$. Solvability of the interpolation problem rides on solvability of the
associated (discrete) moment problem $$ \sum\nolimits_{k=1}^n\mu_k
\lambda_k^m=s_m,\qquad s_m:={f_m}/{h_m}, \qquad m=0,\ldots,2n-1, $$ with
unknown $\mu_k $ and $\lambda_k$ and given moments $s_m$. In a number of cases,
when the system is consistent, it is solvable explicitly by a classical method
due to Prony and Sylvester; moreover, a corresponding interpolating amplitude
and frequency operator is also constructed easily.
  The most difficult and interesting case is one of inconsistent moment
problems. For this case we propose a method of analytic regularization, which
consists in addition of a special binomial $c_1z^{n-1}+c_2 z^{2n-1}$ to an
amplitude and frequency sum. It turns out that an appropriate choice of the
parameters $c_{1,2}$ leads to a new regularized amplitude and frequency sum,
whose associated moment problem is already solvable; moreover, in numerical
differentiation and extrapolation problems, being under our consideration, we
also succeeded in finding an explicit form of the solution. Such an approach
allowed to obtain interpolation formulas with $n$ nodes $\lambda_k z$, being
precise on polynomials of degree $\le 2n-1$; traditional interpolation formulas
with the same number of nodes are usually precise only on polynomials of degree
$\le n-1$.