Theoretical and numerical studies of wave-packet propagation are presented to
analyze the time varying 2D mode structures of electrostatic fluctuations in
tokamak plasmas, using general flux coordinates. Instead of solving the 2D wave
equations directly, the solution of the initial value problem is used to obtain
the 2D mode structure, following the propagation of wave-packets generated by a
source and reconstructing the time varying field. As application, the 2D WKB
method is applied to investigate the shaping effects (elongation and
triangularity) of tokamak geometry on the lower hybrid wave propagation and
absorbtion. Meanwhile, the Mode Structure Decomposition (MSD) method is used to
handle the boundary conditions and simplify the 2D problem to two nested 1D
problems. The MSD method is related to that discussed earlier by Zonca and Chen
[Phys. Fluids B 5, 3668 (1993)], and reduces to the well-known "ballooning
formalism" [J. W. Connor, R. J. Hastie, and J. B. Taylor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 40,
396 (1978)], when spatial scale separation applies. This method is used to
investigate the time varying 2D electrostatic ITG mode structure with a mixed
WKB-full-wave technique. The time varying field pattern is reconstructed and
the time asymptotic structure of the wave-packet propagation gives the 2D
eigenmode and the corresponding eigenvalue. As a general approach to
investigate 2D mode structures in tokamak plasmas, our method also applies for
electromagnetic waves with general source/sink terms, either by an
internal/external antenna or nonlinear wave interaction with zonal structures.