The current understanding of the superconductor-insulator transition is
discussed level by level in a cyclic spiral-like manner. At the first level,
physical phenomena and processes are discussed which, while of no formal
relevance to the topic of transitions, are important for their implementation
and observation; these include superconductivity in low electron density
materials, transport and magnetoresistance in superconducting island films and
in highly resistive granular materials with superconducting grains, and the
Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. The second level discusses and
summarizes results from various microscopic approaches to the problem, whether
based on the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory (the disorder-induced reduction
in the superconducting transition temperature; the key role of Coulomb blockade
in high-resistance granular superconductors; superconducting fluctuations in a
strong magnetic field) or on the theory of the Bose-Einstein condensation. A
special discussion is given to phenomenological scaling theories. Experimental
investigations, primarily transport measurements, make the contents of the
third level and are for convenience classified by the type of material used
(ultrathin films, variable composition materials, high-temperature
superconductors, superconductor-poor metal transitions). As a separate topic,
data on nonlinear phenomena near the superconductor-insulator transition are
presented. At the final, summarizing, level the basic aspects of the problem
are enumerated again to identify where further research is needed and how this
research can be carried out. Some relatively new results, potentially of key
importance in resolving the remaining problems, are also discussed.