The Mukhin-Tarasov-Varchenko Theorem (previously the Shapiro Conjecture)
asserts that a Schubert problem has all solutions distinct and real if the
Schubert varieties involved osculate a rational normal curve at real points.
This sparked interest in real osculating Schubert calculus, and computations
played a large role in developing the surrounding theory. We uncover
generalizations of the Mukhin-Tarasov-Varchenko Theorem, proving them when
possible. We also improve the state of the art of computationally solving
Schubert problems, allowing us to more effectively study ill-understood
phenomena in Schubert calculus.
  We use supercomputers to methodically solve real osculating instances of
Schubert problems. By studying over 300 million instances of over 700 Schubert
problems, we amass data significant enough to reveal possible generalizations
of the Mukhin-Tarasov-Varchenko Theorem and compelling enough to support our
conjectures. Combining algebraic geometry and combinatorics, we prove some of
these conjectures. To improve the efficiency of solving Schubert problems, we
reformulate an instance of a Schubert problem as the solution set to a square
system of equations in a higher-dimensional space.
  During our investigation, we found the number of real solutions to an
instance of a symmetrically defined Schubert problem is congruent modulo four
to the number of complex solutions. We prove this congruence, giving a new
invariant in enumerative real algebraic geometry. We also discovered a family
of Schubert problems whose number of real solutions to a real osculating
instance has a lower bound depending only on the number of defining flags with
real osculation points.