With the rapid development of MANET, secure and practical authentication is
becoming increasingly important. The existing works perform the research from
two aspects, i.e., (a)secure key division and distributed storage, (b)secure
distributed authentication. But there still exist several unsolved problems.
Specifically, it may suffer from cheating problems and fault authentication
attack, which can result in authentication failure and DoS attack towards
authentication service. Besides, most existing schemes are not with
satisfactory efficiency due to exponential arithmetic based on Shamir's scheme.
In this paper, we explore the property of verifiable secret sharing(VSS)
schemes with Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT), then propose a secret key
distributed storage scheme based on CRT-VSS and trusted computing for MANET.
Specifically, we utilize trusted computing technology to solve two existing
cheating problems in secret sharing area before. After that, we do the analysis
of homomorphism property with CRT-VSS and design the corresponding
shares-product sharing scheme with better concision. On such basis, a secure
distributed Elliptic Curve-Digital Signature Standard signature (ECC-DSS)
authentication scheme based on CRT-VSS scheme and trusted computing is
proposed. Furthermore, as an important property of authentication scheme, we
discuss the refreshing property of CRT-VSS and do thorough comparisons with
Shamir's scheme. Finally, we provide formal guarantees towards our schemes
proposed in this paper.