We present general techniques for proving inapproximability results for
several paradigmatic truthful multidimensional mechanism design problems. In
particular, we demonstrate the strength of our techniques by exhibiting a lower
bound of 2-1/m for the scheduling problem with m unrelated machines (formulated
as a mechanism design problem in the seminal paper of Nisan and Ronen on
Algorithmic Mechanism Design). Our lower bound applies to truthful randomized
mechanisms, regardless of any computational assumptions on the running time of
these mechanisms. Moreover, it holds even for the wider class of
truthfulness-in-expectation mechanisms. This lower bound nearly matches the
known 1.58606 randomized truthful upper bound for the case of two machines (a
non-truthful FPTAS exists).
  Recently, Daskalakis and Weinberg show that there is a polynomial-time
2-approximately optimal Bayesian mechanism for makespan minimization for
unrelated machines. We complement this result by showing an appropriate lower
bound of 1.25 for deterministic incentive compatible Bayesian mechanisms.
  We then show an application of our techniques to the workload-minimization
problem in networks. We prove our lower bounds for this problem in the
inter-domain routing setting presented by Feigenbaum, Papadimitriou, Sami, and
Shenker. Finally, we discuss several notions of non-utilitarian fairness
(Max-Min fairness, Min-Max fairness, and envy minimization) and show how our
techniques can be used to prove lower bounds for these notions. No lower bounds
for truthful mechanisms in multidimensional probabilistic settings were
previously known.