A Fixed-Parameter Tractable (\FPT) $\rho$-approximation algorithm for a
minimization (resp. maximization) parameterized problem $P$ is an FPT algorithm
that, given an instance $(x, k)\in P$ computes a solution of cost at most $k
\cdot \rho(k)$ (resp. $k/\rho(k)$) if a solution of cost at most (resp. at
least) $k$ exists; otherwise the output can be arbitrary. For well-known
intractable problems such as the W[1]-hard {Clique} and W[2]-hard {Set Cover}
problems, the natural question is whether we can get any \FPT-approximation. It
is widely believed that both {Clique} and {Set-Cover} admit no FPT
$\rho$-approximation algorithm, for any increasing function $\rho$. Assuming
standard conjectures such as the Exponential Time Hypothesis (ETH)
\cite{eth-paturi} and the Projection Games Conjecture (PGC) \cite{r3}, we make
the first progress towards proving this conjecture by showing that
  1. Under the ETH and PGC, there exist constants $F_1, F_2 >0$ such that the
{Set Cover} problem does not admit an FPT approximation algorithm with ratio
$k^{F_1}$ in $2^{k^{F_2}}\cdot \text{poly}(N,M)$ time, where $N$ is the size of
the universe and $M$ is the number of sets.
  2. Unless $\NP\subseteq \SUBEXP$, for every $1> \delta > 0$ there exists a
constant $F(\delta)>0$ such that {Clique} has no FPT cost approximation with
ratio $k^{1-\delta}$ in $2^{k^{F}}\cdot \text{poly}(n)$ time, where $n$ is the
number of vertices in the graph.
  In the second part of the paper we consider various W[1]-hard problems such
as {\dst}, {\dsf}, Directed Steiner Network and {\mec}. For all these problem
we give polynomial time $f(\text{OPT})$-approximation algorithms for some small
function $f$ (the largest approximation ratio we give is $\text{OPT}^2$).