Geocasting is the delivery of packets to nodes within a certain geographic
area. For many applications in wireless ad hoc and sensor networks, geocasting
is an important and frequent communication service. The challenging problem in
geocasting is distributing the packets to all the nodes within the geocast
region with high probability but with low overhead. According to our study we
notice a clear tradeoff between the proportion of nodes in the geocast region
that receive the packet and the overhead incurred by the geocast packet
especially at low densities and irregular distributions. We present two novel
protocols for geocasting that achieve high delivery rate and low overhead by
utilizing the local location information of nodes to combine geographic routing
mechanisms with region flooding. We show that the first protocol
Geographic-Forwarding-Geocast (GFG) has close-to-minimum overhead in dense
networks and that the second protocol Geographic-Forwarding-Perimeter-Geocast
(GFPG) provides guaranteed delivery without global flooding or global network
information even at low densities and with the existence of region gaps or
obstacles. An adaptive version of the second protocol (GFPG*) has the desirable
property of perfect delivery at all densities and close-to-minimum overhead at
high densities. We evaluate our mechanisms and compare them using simulation to
other proposed geocasting mechanisms. The results show the significant
improvement in delivery rate (up to 63% higher delivery percentage in low
density networks) and reduction in overhead (up to 80% reduction) achieved by
our mechanisms. We hope for our protocols to become building block mechanisms
for dependable sensor network architectures that require robust efficient
geocast services.