The graph realization problem has received a great deal of attention in
recent years, due to its importance in applications such as wireless sensor
networks and structural biology. In this paper, we extend on previous work and
propose the 3D-ASAP algorithm, for the graph realization problem in
$\mathbb{R}^3$, given a sparse and noisy set of distance measurements. 3D-ASAP
is a divide and conquer, non-incremental and non-iterative algorithm, which
integrates local distance information into a global structure determination.
Our approach starts with identifying, for every node, a subgraph of its 1-hop
neighborhood graph, which can be accurately embedded in its own coordinate
system. In the noise-free case, the computed coordinates of the sensors in each
patch must agree with their global positioning up to some unknown rigid motion,
that is, up to translation, rotation and possibly reflection. In other words,
to every patch there corresponds an element of the Euclidean group Euc(3) of
rigid transformations in $\mathbb{R}^3$, and the goal is to estimate the group
elements that will properly align all the patches in a globally consistent way.
Furthermore, 3D-ASAP successfully incorporates information specific to the
molecule problem in structural biology, in particular information on known
substructures and their orientation. In addition, we also propose 3D-SP-ASAP, a
faster version of 3D-ASAP, which uses a spectral partitioning algorithm as a
preprocessing step for dividing the initial graph into smaller subgraphs. Our
extensive numerical simulations show that 3D-ASAP and 3D-SP-ASAP are very
robust to high levels of noise in the measured distances and to sparse
connectivity in the measurement graph, and compare favorably to similar
state-of-the art localization algorithms.