We consider a random sparse graph with bounded average degree, in which a
subset of vertices has higher connectivity than the background. In particular,
the average degree inside this subset of vertices is larger than outside (but
still bounded). Given a realization of such graph, we aim at identifying the
hidden subset of vertices. This can be regarded as a model for the problem of
finding a tightly knitted community in a social network, or a cluster in a
relational dataset.
  In this paper we present two sets of contributions: $(i)$ We use the cavity
method from spin glass theory to derive an exact phase diagram for the
reconstruction problem. In particular, as the difference in edge probability
increases, the problem undergoes two phase transitions, a static phase
transition and a dynamic one. $(ii)$ We establish rigorous bounds on the
dynamic phase transition and prove that, above a certain threshold, a local
algorithm (belief propagation) correctly identify most of the hidden set. Below
the same threshold \emph{no local algorithm} can achieve this goal. However, in
this regime the subset can be identified by exhaustive search.
  For small hidden sets and large average degree, the phase transition for
local algorithms takes an intriguingly simple form. Local algorithms succeed
with high probability for ${\rm deg}_{\rm in} - {\rm deg}_{\rm out} >
\sqrt{{\rm deg}_{\rm out}/e}$ and fail for ${\rm deg}_{\rm in} - {\rm deg}_{\rm
out} < \sqrt{{\rm deg}_{\rm out}/e}$ (with ${\rm deg}_{\rm in}$, ${\rm
deg}_{\rm out}$ the average degrees inside and outside the community). We argue
that spectral algorithms are also ineffective in the latter regime.
  It is an open problem whether any polynomial time algorithms might succeed
for ${\rm deg}_{\rm in} - {\rm deg}_{\rm out} < \sqrt{{\rm deg}_{\rm out}/e}$.