The early phase of the hydrodynamic evolution following collision of two
stars is analyzed. Two strong shocks propagate at a constant velocity (which is
a small fraction of the velocity of the approaching stars) from the contact
surface toward the center of each star. The shocked region near the contact
surface has a planar symmetry and a uniform pressure. The density vanishes at
the (Lagrangian) surface of contact and the speed of sound diverges there. The
temperature, however, reaches a finite value, since as the density vanishes,
the finite pressure is radiation dominated. For Carbon-Oxygen white dwarfs
collisions this temperature is too low for any appreciable nuclear burning at
early times. The divergence of the speed of sound limits numerical studies of
stellar collisions, as it makes convergence tests exceedingly expensive unless
dedicated schemes are used. We provide a new one-dimensional Lagrangian
numerical scheme to achieve this. Self-similar planar solutions are derived for
zero-impact parameter collisions between two identical stars, under some
simplifying assumptions. These solutions provide rough approximations that
capture the main features of the flow and allow a general study as well as a
detailed numerical verification test problem. The self-similar solution in the
upstream frame is the planar version of previous piston problems that were
studied in cylindrical and spherical symmetries. We found it timely to present
a global picture of self similar piston problems. In particular, we derive new
results regarding the non trivial transition to accelerating shocks at
sufficiently declining densities (not relevant for collisions).