Mobile Ad-hoc Network (MANET) is the self organizing collection of mobile
nodes. The communication in MANET is done via a wireless media. Ad hoc wireless
networks have massive commercial and military potential because of their
mobility support. Due to demanding real time multimedia applications, Quality
of Services (QoS) support in such infrastructure less networks have become
essential. QoS routing in mobile Ad-Hoc networks is challenging due to rapid
change in network topology. In this paper, we focused to reduce flooding
performance of the Fisheye State Routing (FSR) protocol in Grid using ns-2
network simulator under different performance metrics scenario in respect to
number of Nodes. For example, the connection establishment is costly in terms
of time and resource where the network is mostly affected by connection request
flooding. The proposed approach presents a way to reduce flooding in MANETs.
Flooding is dictated by the propagation of connection-request packets from the
source to its neighborhood nodes. The proposed architecture embarks on the
concept of sharing neighborhood information. The proposed approach focuses on
exposing its neighborhood peer to another node that is referred to as its
friend-node, which had requested/forwarded connection request. If there is a
high probability for the friend node to communicate through the exposed routes,
this could improve the efficacy of bandwidth utilization by reducing flooding,
as the routes have been acquired, without any broadcasts. Friendship between
nodes is quantized based on empirical computations and heuristic algorithms.
The nodes store the neighborhood information in their cache that is
periodically verified for consistency. Simulation results show the performance
of this proposed method.