Among various possible routes to extend entropy and thermodynamics to
nonequilibrium steady states (NESS), we take the one which is guided by
operational thermodynamics and the Clausius relation. In our previous study, we
derived the extended Clausius relation for NESS, where the heat in the original
relation is replaced by its "renormalized" counterpart called the excess heat,
and the Gibbs-Shannon expression for the entropy by a new symmetrized
Gibbs-Shannon-like expression. Here we concentrate on Markov processes
describing heat conducting systems, and develop a new method for deriving
thermodynamic relations. We first present a new simpler derivation of the
extended Clausius relation, and clarify its close relation with the linear
response theory. We then derive a new improved extended Clausius relation with
a "nonlinear nonequilibrium" contribution which is written as a correlation
between work and heat. We argue that the "nonlinear nonequilibrium"
contribution is unavoidable, and is determined uniquely once we accept the
(very natural) definition of the excess heat. Moreover it turns out that to
operationally determine the difference in the nonequilibrium entropy to the
second order in the temperature difference, one may only use the previous
Clausius relation without a nonlinear term or must use the new relation,
depending on the operation (i.e., the path in the parameter space). This
peculiar "twist" may be a clue to a better understanding of thermodynamics and
statistical mechanics of NESS.