In this paper we propose the first better than second order accurate method
in space and time for the numerical solution of the resistive relativistic
magnetohydrodynamics (RRMHD) equations on unstructured meshes in multiple space
dimensions. The nonlinear system under consideration is purely hyperbolic and
contains a source term, the one for the evolution of the electric field, that
becomes stiff for low values of the resistivity. For the spatial discretization
we propose to use high order $\PNM$ schemes as introduced in \cite{Dumbser2008}
for hyperbolic conservation laws and a high order accurate unsplit time
discretization is achieved using the element-local space-time discontinuous
Galerkin approach proposed in \cite{DumbserEnauxToro} for one-dimensional
balance laws with stiff source terms. The divergence free character of the
magnetic field is accounted for through the divergence cleaning procedure of
Dedner et al. \cite{Dedneretal}. To validate our high order method we first
solve some numerical test cases for which exact analytical reference solutions
are known and we also show numerical convergence studies in the stiff limit of
the RRMHD equations using $\PNM$ schemes from third to fifth order of accuracy
in space and time. We also present some applications with shock waves such as a
classical shock tube problem with different values for the conductivity as well
as a relativistic MHD rotor problem and the relativistic equivalent of the
Orszag-Tang vortex problem. We have verified that the proposed method can
handle equally well the resistive regime and the stiff limit of ideal
relativistic MHD. For these reasons it provides a powerful tool for
relativistic astrophysical simulations involving the appearance of magnetic
reconnection.