Classical stochastic gradient methods are well suited for minimizing
expected-value objective functions. However, they do not apply to the
minimization of a nonlinear function involving expected values or a composition
of two expected-value functions, i.e., problems of the form $\min_x
\mathbf{E}_v [f_v\big(\mathbf{E}_w [g_w(x)]\big)]$. In order to solve this
stochastic composition problem, we propose a class of stochastic compositional
gradient descent (SCGD) algorithms that can be viewed as stochastic versions of
quasi-gradient method. SCGD update the solutions based on noisy sample
gradients of $f_v,g_{w}$ and use an auxiliary variable to track the unknown
quantity $\mathbf{E}_w[g_w(x)]$. We prove that the SCGD converge almost surely
to an optimal solution for convex optimization problems, as long as such a
solution exists. The convergence involves the interplay of two iterations with
different time scales. For nonsmooth convex problems, the SCGD achieve a
convergence rate of $O(k^{-1/4})$ in the general case and $O(k^{-2/3})$ in the
strongly convex case, after taking $k$ samples. For smooth convex problems, the
SCGD can be accelerated to converge at a rate of $O(k^{-2/7})$ in the general
case and $O(k^{-4/5})$ in the strongly convex case. For nonconvex problems, we
prove that any limit point generated by SCGD is a stationary point, for which
we also provide the convergence rate analysis. Indeed, the stochastic setting
where one wants to optimize compositions of expected-value functions is very
common in practice. The proposed SCGD methods find wide applications in
learning, estimation, dynamic programming, etc.