Protein dynamics in cells may be different from that in dilute solutions in
vitro since the environment in cells is highly concentrated with other
macromolecules. This volume exclusion due to macromolecular crowding is
predicted to affect both equilibrium and kinetic processes involving protein
conformational changes. To quantify macromolecular crowding effects on protein
folding mechanisms, here we have investigated the folding energy landscape of
an alpha/beta protein, apoflavodoxin, in the presence of inert macromolecular
crowding agents using in silico and in vitro approaches. By coarse-grained
molecular simulations and topology-based potential interactions, we probed the
effects of increased volume fraction of crowding agents (phi_c) as well as of
crowding agent geometry (sphere or spherocylinder) at high phi_c. Parallel
kinetic folding experiments with purified Desulfovibro desulfuricans
apoflavodoxin in vitro were performed in the presence of Ficoll (sphere) and
Dextran (spherocylinder) synthetic crowding agents. In conclusion, we have
identified in silico crowding conditions that best enhance protein stability
and discovered that upon manipulation of the crowding conditions, folding
routes experiencing topological frustrations can be either enhanced or
relieved. The test-tube experiments confirmed that apoflavodoxin's
time-resolved folding path is modulated by crowding agent geometry. We propose
that macromolecular crowding effects may be a tool for manipulation of protein
folding and function in living cells.