We consider a system governed by the wave equation with index of refraction
$n(x)$, taken to be variable within a bounded region $\Omega\subset \mathbb
R^d$, and constant in $\mathbb R^d \setminus \Omega$. The solution of the
time-dependent wave equation with initial data, which is localized in $\Omega$,
spreads and decays with advancing time. This rate of decay can be measured (for
$d=1,3$, and more generally, $d$ odd) in terms of the eigenvalues of the
scattering resonance problem, a non-selfadjoint eigenvalue problem governing
the time-harmonic solutions of the wave (Helmholtz) equation which are outgoing
at $\infty$. Specifically, the rate of energy escape from $\Omega$ is governed
by the complex scattering eigenfrequency, which is closest to the real axis. We
study the structural design problem: Find a refractive index profile $n_*(x)$
within an admissible class which has a scattering frequency with minimal
imaginary part. The admissible class is defined in terms of the compact support
of $n(x)-1$ and pointwise upper and lower (material) bounds on $n(x)$ for $x
\in \Omega$, i.e., $0 < n_- \leq n(x) \leq n_+ < \infty$. We formulate this
problem as a constrained optimization problem and prove that an optimal
structure, $n_*(x)$ exists. Furthermore, $n_*(x)$ is piecewise constant and
achieves the material bounds, i.e., $n_*(x) \in {n_-, n_+} $. In one dimension,
we establish a connection between $n_*(x)$ and the well-known class of Bragg
structures, where $n(x)$ is constant on intervals whose length is one-quarter
of the effective wavelength.