We prove several results on the lifespan, regularity, and uniqueness of
solutions of the Cauchy problem for the homogeneous complex and real
Monge-Ampere equations (HCMA/HRMA) under various a priori regularity
conditions. We use methods of characteristics in both the real and complex
settings to bound the lifespan of solutions with prescribed regularity. In the
complex domain, we characterize the C^3 lifespan of the HCMA in terms of
analytic continuation of Hamiltonian mechanics and intersection of complex time
characteristics. We use a conservation law type argument to prove uniqueness of
solutions of the Cauchy problem for the HCMA. We then prove that the Cauchy
problem is ill-posed in C^3, in the sense that there exists a dense set of C^3
Cauchy data for which there exists no C^3 solution even for a short time. In
the real domain we show that the HRMA is equivalent to a Hamilton--Jacobi
equation, and use the equivalence to prove that any differentiable weak
solution is smooth, so that the differentiable lifespan equals the convex
lifespan determined in our previous articles. We further show that the only
obstruction to C^1 solvability is the invertibility of the associated Moser
maps. Thus, a smooth solution of the Cauchy problem for HRMA exists for a
positive but generally finite time and cannot be continued even as a weak C^1
solution afterwards. Finally, we introduce the notion of a "leafwise
subsolution" for the HCMA that generalizes that of a solution, and many of our
aforementioned results are proved for this more general object.