In 1990 Subramanian defined the complexity class CC as the set of problems
log-space reducible to the comparator circuit value problem (CCV). He and Mayr
showed that NL \subseteq CC \subseteq P, and proved that in addition to CCV
several other problems are complete for CC, including the stable marriage
problem, and finding the lexicographically first maximal matching in a
bipartite graph. We are interested in CC because we conjecture that it is
incomparable with the parallel class NC which also satisfies NL \subseteq NC
\subseteq P, and note that this conjecture implies that none of the CC-complete
problems has an efficient polylog time parallel algorithm. We provide evidence
for our conjecture by giving oracle settings in which relativized CC and
relativized NC are incomparable.
  We give several alternative definitions of CC, including (among others) the
class of problems computed by uniform polynomial-size families of comparator
circuits supplied with copies of the input and its negation, the class of
problems AC^0-reducible to CCV, and the class of problems computed by uniform
AC^0 circuits with CCV gates. We also give a machine model for CC, which
corresponds to its characterization as log-space uniform polynomial-size
families of comparator circuits. These various characterizations show that CC
is a robust class. The main technical tool we employ is universal comparator
circuits.
  Other results include a simpler proof of NL \subseteq CC, and an explanation
of the relation between the Gale-Shapley algorithm and Subramanian's algorithm
for stable marriage.
  This paper continues the previous work of Cook, L\^e and Ye which focused on
Cook-Nguyen style uniform proof complexity, answering several open questions
raised in that paper.