We study the conditional sojourn time distributions of processor sharing
(PS), foreground background processor sharing (FBPS) and shortest remaining
processing time first (SRPT) scheduling disciplines on an event where the job
size of a customer arriving in stationarity is smaller than exactly k>=0 out of
the preceding m>=k arrivals. Then, conditioning on the preceding event, the
sojourn time distribution of this newly arriving customer behaves
asymptotically the same as if the customer were served in isolation with a
server of rate (1-\rho)/(k+1) for PS/FBPS, and (1-\rho) for SRPT, respectively,
where \rho is the traffic intensity. Hence, the introduced notion of
conditional limits allows us to distinguish the asymptotic performance of the
studied schedulers by showing that SRPT exhibits considerably better asymptotic
behavior for relatively smaller jobs than PS/FBPS.
  Inspired by the preceding results, we propose an approximation to the SRPT
discipline based on a novel adaptive job grouping mechanism that uses relative
size comparison of a newly arriving job to the preceding m arrivals.
Specifically, if the newly arriving job is smaller than k and larger than m-k
of the previous m jobs, it is routed into class k. Then, the classes of smaller
jobs are served with higher priorities using the static priority scheduling.
The good performance of this mechanism, even for a small number of classes m+1,
is demonstrated using the asymptotic queueing analysis under the heavy-tailed
job requirements. We also discuss refinements of the comparison grouping
mechanism that improve the accuracy of job classification at the expense of a
small additional complexity.