We study Semidefinite Programming, \SDPc relaxations for Sensor Network
Localization, \SNLc with anchors and with noisy distance information. The main
point of the paper is to view \SNL as a (nearest) Euclidean Distance Matrix,
\EDM, completion problem and to show the advantages for using this latter, well
studied model. We first show that the current popular \SDP relaxation is
equivalent to known relaxations in the literature for \EDM completions. The
existence of anchors in the problem is {\em not} special. The set of anchors
simply corresponds to a given fixed clique for the graph of the \EDM problem.
We next propose a method of projection when a large clique or a dense subgraph
is identified in the underlying graph. This projection reduces the size, and
improves the stability, of the relaxation. In addition, viewing the problem as
an \EDM completion problem yields better low rank approximations for the low
dimensional realizations. And, the projection/reduction procedure can be
repeated for other given cliques of sensors or for sets of sensors, where many
distances are known. Thus, further size reduction can be obtained.
Optimality/duality conditions and a primal-dual interior-exterior path
following algorithm are derived for the \SDP relaxations We discuss the
relative stability and strength of two formulations and the corresponding
algorithms that are used. In particular, we show that the quadratic formulation
arising from the \SDP relaxation is better conditioned than the linearized
form, that is used in the literature and that arises from applying a Schur
complement.