Optimal distribution of power among generating units to meet a specific
demand subject to system constraints is an ongoing research topic in the power
system community. The problem, even in a static setting, turns out to be hard
to solve with conventional optimization methods owing to the consideration of
valve-point effects which make the cost function nonsmooth and nonconvex. This
difficulty gave rise to the proliferation of population-based global heuristics
in order to address the multi-extremal and nonsmooth problem. In this paper, we
address the economic load dispatch problem (ELDP) with valve-point effect in
its classic formulation where the cost function for each generator is expressed
as the sum of a quadratic term and a rectified sine term. We propose two
methods that resort to piecewise-quadratic surrogate cost functions, yielding
surrogate problems that can be handled by mixed-integer quadratic programming
(MIQP) solvers. The first method shows that the global solution of the ELDP can
often be found by using a fixed and very limited number of quadratic pieces in
the surrogate cost function. The second method adaptively builds
piecewise-quadratic surrogate under-estimations of the ELDP cost function,
yielding a sequence of surrogate MIQP problems. It is shown that any limit
point of the sequence of MIQP solutions is a global solution of the ELDP.
Moreover, numerical experiments indicate that the proposed methods outclass the
state-of-the-art algorithms in terms of minimization value and computation time
on practical instances.