We show that the dominating set problem parameterized by solution size is
fixed-parameter tractable (FPT) in graphs that do not contain the claw
(K(1,3)), the complete bipartite graph on four vertices where the two parts
have one and three vertices, respectively) as an induced subgraph. We present
an algorithm that uses 2^O(k^2)n^O(1) time and polynomial space to decide
whether a claw-free graph on n vertices has a dominating set of size at most k.
Note that this parameterization of dominating set is W[2]-hard on the set of
all graphs, and thus is unlikely to have an FPT algorithm for graphs in
general. The most general class of graphs for which an FPT algorithm was
previously known for this parameterization of dominating set is the class of
K(i,j)-free graphs, which exclude, for some fixed i,j, the complete bipartite
graph K(i,j) as a subgraph. For i,i >= 2, the class of claw-free graphs and any
class of K(i,j)-free graphs are not comparable with respect to set inclusion.
We thus extend the range of graphs over which this parameterization of
dominating set is known to be fixed-parameter tractable. We also show that, in
some sense, it is the presence of the claw that makes this parameterization of
the dominating set problem hard. More precisely, we show that for any t ?>= 4,
the dominating set problem parameterized by the solution size is W[2]-hard in
graphs that exclude the t-claw K(1,t) as an induced subgraph. Our arguments
also imply that the related connected dominating set and dominating clique
problems are W[2]-hard in these graph classes. Finally, we show that for any t,
the clique problem parameterized by solution size, which is W[1]-hard on
general graphs, is FPT in t-claw-free graphs. Our results add to the small and
growing collection of FPT results for graph classes defined by excluded
subgraphs, rather than by excluded minors.