In this paper we investigate the motion of small compact objects in
non-vacuum spacetimes using methods from effective field theory in curved
spacetime. Although a vacuum formulation is sufficient in many astrophysical
contexts, there are applications such as the role of the self-force in
enforcing cosmic-censorship in the context of the overcharging problem, which
necessitate an extension into the non-vacuum regime. The defining feature of
the self-force problem in non-vacuum spacetimes is the coupling between
gravitational and non-gravitational field perturbations. The formulation of the
self-force problem for non-vacuum spacetimes was recently provided in
simultaneous papers by Zimmerman and Poisson [1] and Linz, Friedmann, Wiseman
[2]. Here we distinguish ourselves by working with the effective action rather
than the field equations. The formalism utilizes the multi-index notation
developed by Zimmerman and Poisson [1] to accommodate the coupling between the
different fields. Using dimensional regularization, we arrive at a finite
expression for the local self-force expressed in terms of multi-index
quantities evaluated in the background spacetime. We then apply the formalism
to compute the coupled gravitational self-force in two explicit cases. First,
we calculate the self-force on a massive particle possessing scalar charge and
moving in an scalarvac spacetime. We then derive an expression for the
self-force on an electrically charged, massive particle moving in an electrovac
spacetime. In both cases, the force is expressed as a sum of local terms
involving tensors defined in the background spacetime and evaluated at the
current position of the particle, as well as tail integrals that depend on the
past history of the particle.