Congestion games model a wide variety of real-world resource congestion
problems, such as selfish network routing, traffic route guidance in congested
areas, taxi fleet optimization and crowd movement in busy areas. However,
existing research in congestion games assumes: (a) deterministic movement of
agents between resources; and (b) perfect rationality (i.e. maximizing their
own expected value) of all agents. Such assumptions are not reasonable in
dynamic domains where decision support has to be provided to humans. For
instance, in optimizing the performance of a taxi fleet serving a city,
movement of taxis can be involuntary or nondeterministic (decided by the
specific customer who hires the taxi) and more importantly, taxi drivers may
not follow advice provided by the decision support system (due to bounded
rationality of humans). To that end, we contribute: (a) a general framework for
representing congestion games under uncertainty for populations with assorted
notions of rationality. (b) a scalable approach for solving the decision
problem for perfectly rational agents which are in the mix with boundedly
rational agents; and (c) a detailed evaluation on a synthetic and realworld
data set to illustrate the usefulness of our new approach with respect to key
social welfare metrics in the context of an assorted human-agent population. An
interesting result from our experiments on a real-world taxi fleet optimization
problem is that it is better (in terms of revenue and operational efficiency)
for taxi drivers to follow perfectly rational strategies irrespective of the
percentage of drivers not following the advice.