In part 1 (Chapter 2) we present the basic notions of Loewner theory. Here we
use a modern form which was developed by F. Bracci, M. Contreras, S.
D\'iaz-Madrigal et al. and which can be applied to certain higher dimensional
complex manifolds. We look at two domains in more detail: the Euclidean unit
ball and the polydisc. Here we consider two classes of biholomorphic mappings
which were introduced by T. Poreda and G. Kohr as generalizations of the class
S and we prove a conjecture about support points of these classes.
  In part 2 (Chapter 3) we consider one special Loewner equation: the chordal
multiple-slit equation in the upper half-plane. After describing basic
properties of this equation we look at the problem, whether one can choose the
coefficient functions in this equation to be constant. D. Prokhorov proved this
statement under the assumption that the slits are piecewise analytic. We use a
completely different idea to solve the problem in its general form. As the
Loewner equation with constant coefficients holds everywhere (and not just
almost everywhere), this result generalizes Loewner's original idea to the
multiple-slit case. Moreover, we consider the following problems:
  -> The "simple-curve problem" asks which driving functions describe the
growth of simple curves. We discuss necessary and sufficient conditions,
generalize a theorem of J. Lind, D. Marshall and S. Rohde to the multiple-slit
equation and we give an example of a set of driving functions which generate
simple curves because of a certain self-similarity property.
  -> We discuss properties of driving functions that generate slits which
enclose a given angle with the real axis.
  -> A theorem by O. Roth gives an explicit description of the reachable set of
one point in the radial Loewner equation. We prove the analog for the chordal
equation.