A non-classical initial and boundary value problem for a non-homogeneous
one-dimensional heat equation for a semi-infinite material with a zero
temperature boundary condition at the face $x=0$ is studied with the aim of
finding explicit solutions. It is not a standard heat conduction problem
because a heat source $-\Phi(x)F(V(t),t)$ is considered, where $V$ represents
the heat flux at $x=0$. Explicit solutions independents of the space or
temporal variables are given. Solutions with separated variables when the data
functions are defined from the solution $X=X(x)$ of a linear initial value
problem of second order and the solution $T=T(t)$ of a non-linear (in general)
initial value problem of first order which involves the function $F$, are also
given and explicit solutions corresponding to different definitions of $F$ are
obtained. A solution by an integral representation depending on the heat flux
at $x=0$ for the case in which $F=F(V,t)=\nu V$, $\nu>0$, is obtained and
explicit expressions for the heat flux at $x=0$ and for its corresponding
solution are calculated when $h=h(x)$ is a potential function and
$\Phi=\Phi(x)$ is given by $\Phi(x)=\lambda x$, $\Phi(x)=-\mu\sinh{(\lambda
x)}$ or $\Phi(x)=-\mu\sin{(\lambda x)}$, $\lambda>0$ and $\mu>0$. The limit
when the temporal variable $t$ tends to $+\infty$ of each explicit solution
obtained in this paper is studied and the "controlling" effects of the source
term $-\Phi F$ are analysed by comparing the asymptotic behavior of each
solution with the asymptotic behavior of the solution to the same problem but
in absence of source term. Finally, a relationship between this problem with
another non-classical initial and boundary value problem for the heat equation
is established and explicit solutions for this second problem are also
obtained.