In this paper we devise a novel \emph{unified} construction of Euclidean
spanners that trades between the maximum degree, diameter and weight
gracefully. For a positive integer k, our construction provides a
(1+eps)-spanner with maximum degree O(k), diameter O(log_k n + alpha(k)),
weight O(k \cdot log_k n \cdot log n) \cdot w(MST(S)), and O(n) edges. Note
that for k= n^{1/alpha(n)} this gives rise to diameter O(alpha(n)), weight
O(n^{1/alpha(n)} \cdot log n \cdot alpha(n)) \cdot w(MST(S)) and maximum degree
O(n^{1/alpha(n)}), which improves upon a classical result of Arya et al.
\cite{ADMSS95}; in the corresponding result from \cite{ADMSS95} the spanner has
the same number of edges and diameter, but its weight and degree may be
arbitrarily large. Also, for k = O(1) this gives rise to maximum degree O(1),
diameter O(log n) and weight O(log^2 n) \cdot w(MST(S)), which reproves another
classical result of Arya et al. \cite{ADMSS95}. Our bound of O(log_k n +
alpha(k)) on the diameter is optimal under the constraints that the maximum
degree is O(k) and the number of edges is O(n). Our bound on the weight is
optimal up to a factor of log n. Our construction also provides a similar
tradeoff in the complementary range of parameters, i.e., when the weight should
be smaller than log^2 n, but the diameter is allowed to grow beyond log n.
  For random point sets in the d-dimensional unit cube, we "shave" a factor of
log n from the weight bound. Specifically, in this case our construction
achieves maximum degree O(k), diameter O(log_k n + alpha(k)) and weight that is
with high probability O(k \cdot log_k n) \cdot w(MST(S)).
  Finally, en route to these results we devise optimal constructions of
1-spanners for general tree metrics, which are of independent interest.