We present a model for the collective dynamics of a suspension of active
colloidal particles, whose motion is driven by gradients in the concentration
of a chemical that they produce. For the chemorepulsive case, where particles
migrate away from their chemical product, we predict two new generic mechanisms
causing microphase separation and pattern formation. The first such mechanism
leads to the formation of stable clusters of a finite size, and relies on an
anisotropy in chemical production at the particle surface, as expected for
synthetic active colloids (Janus spheres) that move by autophoresis. These
clusters, whose size increases with activity, are each stabilized by a
chemorepellent shell that keeps the particles in the cluster together while
driving other clusters away. Our second route to pattern formation arises even
in the absence of such anisotropy, through oscillations caused by a delay in
the reorientation response of the active colloids to local gradients in the
chemical density field. This leads to formation of dynamical clusters that
often, but not always, settle into a travelling wave pattern. Finally we find
that a competition of these two mechanism can create a pattern of "blinking
clusters" that continuously exchange particles with each other. These new
mechanisms for the formation of dynamic, finite-sized clusters in active matter
might help explain recent experimental findings. More generally, they point to
novel design principles for self-assembly of active colloids into
spatiotemporal patterns.