We resolve an open problem posed by Joswig et al. by providing an
$\tilde{O}(N)$ time, $O(\log^2(N))$-factor approximation algorithm for the
min-Morse unmatched problem (MMUP) Let $\Lambda$ be the no. of critical cells
of the optimal discrete Morse function and $N$ be the total no. of cells of a
regular cell complex K. The goal of MMUP is to find $\Lambda$ for a given
complex K. To begin with, we apply an approx. preserving graph reduction on
MMUP to obtain a new problem namely the min-partial order problem (min-POP)(a
strict generalization of the min-feedback arc set problem). The reduction
involves introduction of rigid edges which are edges that demand strict
inclusion in output solution. To solve min-POP, we use the Leighton- Rao
divide-&-conquer paradigm that provides solutions to SDP-formulated instances
of min-directed balanced cut with rigid edges (min-DBCRE). Our first algorithm
for min-DBCRE extends Agarwal et al.'s rounding procedure for digraph
formulation of ARV-algorithm to handle rigid edges. Our second algorithm to
solve min-DBCRE SDP, adapts Arora et al.'s primal dual MWUM. In terms of
applications, under the mild assumption1 of the size of topological features
being significantly smaller compared to the size of the complex, we obtain an
(a) $\tilde{O}(N)$ algorithm for computing homology groups $H_i(K,A)$ of a
simplicial complex K, (where A is an arbitrary Abelian group.) (b) an
$\tilde{O}(N^2)$ algorithm for computing persistent homology and (c) an
$\tilde{O}(N)$ algorithm for computing the optimal discrete Morse-Witten
function compatible with input scalar function as simple consequences of our
approximation algorithm for MMUP thereby giving us the best known complexity
bounds for each of these applications under the aforementioned assumption. Such
an assumption is realistic in applied settings, and often a characteristic of
modern massive datasets.