We study the chemical evolution of interstellar grain mantle by varying the
physical parameters of the interstellar medium (ISM). To mimic the exact
interstellar condition, gas grain interactions via accretion from the gas phase
and desorption (thermal evaporation and photo-evaporation) from the grain
surface are considered. We find that the chemical composition of the
interstellar grain mantle is highly dependent on the physical parameters
associated with a molecular cloud. Interstellar photons are seen to play an
important role towards the growth and the structure of the interstellar grain
mantle. We consider the effects of interstellar photons (photo-dissociation and
photo-evaporation) in our simulation under various interstellar conditions. We
notice that the effects of interstellar photons dominate around the region of
lower visual extinction. These photons contribute significantly in the
formation of the grain mantle. Energy of the incoming photon is attenuated by
the absorption and scattering by the interstellar dust. Top most layers are
mainly assumed to be affected by the incoming radiation. We have studied the
effects of photo-dissociation by varying the number of layers which could be
affected by it. Model calculations are carried out for the static (extinction
parameter is changing with the density of the cloud) as well as the time
dependent case (i.e., extinction parameter and number density of the cloud both
are changing with time) and the results are discussed in details. Different
routes to the formation of water molecules are studied and it is noticed that
around the dense region, production of water molecules via O$_3$ and H$_2$O$_2$
contributes significantly. At the end, various observational evidences for the
condensed phase species are summarized with their physical conditions and are
compared with our simulation results.