This is a pedagogical review of the lattice study of finite density QCD,
which is intended to provide the minimum necessary contents, so that the paper
may be used as the first reading for a newcomer to the field and also for those
working in nonlattice communities. After a brief introduction to argue why
finite density QCD can be a new attractive subject, we describe fundamental
formulae which are necessary for the following sections. Then we survey lattice
QCD simulations in small chemical potential regions, where several prominent
works have been reported recently. Next, two-color QCD calculations are
discussed, where we have a chance to glance at many new features of finite
density QCD, and indeed recent simulations indicated quark pair condensation
and the in-medium effect. Tables of SU(3) and SU(2) lattice simulations at
finite baryon density are given. In the next section, we make a survey of
several related works which may be a starting point of the new development in
the future, although some works do not attract much attention now. Materials
are described in a pedagogical manner. Starting from a simple 2-d model, we
briefly discuss a lattice analysis of NJL model. We describe a non-perturbative
analytical approach, i.e., strong coupling approximation method and some
results. Canonical ensemble approach instead of usual grand canonical ensample
may be another route to reach high density. We examine the density of state
method and show this old idea includes recently proposed factorization method.
An alternative method, complex Langevin equation and an interesting model,
finite isospin model, are also discussed. In Appendix, we give several
technical points which are useful in practical calculations.