We show that Pyragas delayed feedback control can stabilize an unstable
periodic orbit (UPO) that arises from a generic subcritical Hopf bifurcation of
a stable equilibrium in an n-dimensional dynamical system. This extends results
of Fiedler et al. [PRL 98, 114101 (2007)], who demonstrated that such feedback
control can stabilize the UPO associated with a two-dimensional subcritical
Hopf normal form. Pyragas feedback requires an appropriate choice of a feedback
gain matrix for stabilization, as well as knowledge of the period of the
targeted UPO. We apply feedback in the directions tangent to the
two-dimensional center manifold. We parameterize the feedback gain by a modulus
and a phase angle, and give explicit formulae for choosing these two parameters
given the period of the UPO in a neighborhood of the bifurcation point. We
show, first heuristically, and then rigorously by a center manifold reduction
for delay differential equations, that the stabilization mechanism involves a
highly degenerate Hopf bifurcation problem that is induced by the time-delayed
feedback. When the feedback gain modulus reaches a threshold for stabilization,
both of the genericity assumptions associated with a two-dimensional Hopf
bifurcation are violated: the eigenvalues of the linearized problem do not
cross the imaginary axis as the bifurcation parameter is varied, and the real
part of the cubic coefficient of the normal form vanishes. Our analysis of this
degenerate bifurcation problem reveals two qualitatively distinct cases when
unfolded in a two-parameter plane. In each case, Pyragas-type feedback
successfully stabilizes the branch of small-amplitude UPOs in a neighborhood of
the original bifurcation point, provided that the phase angle satisfies a
certain restriction.