Discovery of atomically thin black phosphorus (called phosphorene) holds
promise to be used as an alternative two-dimensional material to graphene and
transition metal dichalcogenides especially as an anode material for
lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). However, at present bulk black phosphorus (BP)
still suffers from rapid capacity fading that results in poor rechargeable
performance. Here, for the first time, we use in situ transmission electron
microscopy (TEM) to construct nanoscale phosphorene LIBs and visualize the
capacity fading mechanism in thick multilayer phosphorene by real time
capturing delithiation-induced structural decomposition that reduces electrical
conductivity and thus causes irreversibility of lithiated Li3P phase. We
further demonstrate that few-layer phosphorene successfully circumvents the
structural decomposition and holds superior structural restorability, even
subjected to multi-cycle lithiation/delithiation processes and concomitant huge
volume expansion. This finding affords new experimental insights into
thickness-dependent lithium diffusion kinetics in phosphorene. Additionally, a
scalable liquid-phase shear exfoliation route has been developed to produce
high-quality ultrathin (monolayer or few-layer) phosphorene, only by a
high-speed shear mixer or even a household kitchen blender with the shear rate
threshold, which will pave the way for potential large-scale applications in
LIBs once the rechargeable phosphorene nanoscale batteries can be transferred
to industrialized enlargement in the future.