In this paper, we study two important extensions of the classical minimum cut
problem, called {\em Connectivity Preserving Minimum Cut (CPMC)} problem and
{\em Threshold Minimum Cut (TMC)} problem, which have important applications in
large-scale DDoS attacks. In CPMC problem, a minimum cut is sought to separate
a of source from a destination node and meanwhile preserve the connectivity
between the source and its partner node(s). The CPMC problem also has important
applications in many other areas such as emergency responding, image
processing, pattern recognition, and medical sciences. In TMC problem, a
minimum cut is sought to isolate a target node from a threshold number of
partner nodes. TMC problem is an important special case of network inhibition
problem and has important applications in network security. We show that the
general CPMC problem cannot be approximated within $logn$ unless $NP=P$ has
quasi-polynomial algorithms. We also show that a special case of two group CPMC
problem in planar graphs can be solved in polynomial time. The corollary of
this result is that the network diversion problem in planar graphs is in $P$, a
previously open problem. We show that the threshold minimum node cut (TMNC)
problem can be approximated within ratio $O(\sqrt{n})$ and the threshold
minimum edge cut problem (TMEC) can be approximated within ratio
$O(\log^2{n})$. \emph{We also answer another long standing open problem: the
hardness of the network inhibition problem and network interdiction problem. We
show that both of them cannot be approximated within any constant ratio. unless
$NP \nsubseteq \cap_{\delta>0} BPTIME(2^{n^{\delta}})$.