Network coding can significantly improve the transmission rate of
communication networks with packet loss compared with routing. However, using
network coding usually incurs high computational and storage costs in the
network devices and terminals. For example, some network coding schemes require
the computational and/or storage capacities of an intermediate network node to
increase linearly with the number of packets for transmission, making such
schemes difficult to be implemented in a router-like device that has only
constant computational and storage capacities. In this paper, we introduce
BATched Sparse code (BATS code), which enables a digital fountain approach to
resolve the above issue. BATS code is a coding scheme that consists of an outer
code and an inner code. The outer code is a matrix generation of a fountain
code. It works with the inner code that comprises random linear coding at the
intermediate network nodes. BATS codes preserve such desirable properties of
fountain codes as ratelessness and low encoding/decoding complexity. The
computational and storage capacities of the intermediate network nodes required
for applying BATS codes are independent of the number of packets for
transmission. Almost capacity-achieving BATS code schemes are devised for
unicast networks, two-way relay networks, tree networks, a class of three-layer
networks, and the butterfly network. For general networks, under different
optimization criteria, guaranteed decoding rates for the receiving nodes can be
obtained.