We simulate the formation of a low metallicity (0.01 Zsun) stellar cluster in
a dwarf galaxy at redshift z~14. Beginning with cosmological initial
conditions, the simulation utilizes adaptive mesh refinement and sink particles
to follow the collapse and evolution of gas past the opacity limit for
fragmentation, thus resolving the formation of individual protostellar cores. A
time- and location-dependent protostellar radiation field, which heats the gas
by absorption on dust, is computed by integration of protostellar evolutionary
tracks with the MESA code. The simulation also includes a robust
non-equilibrium chemical network that self-consistently treats gas
thermodynamics and dust-gas coupling. The system is evolved for 18 kyr after
the first protostellar source has formed. In this time span, 30 sink particles
representing protostellar cores form with a total mass of 81 Msun. Their masses
range from ~0.1 Msun to 14.4 Msun with a median mass ~0.5-1 Msun. Massive
protostars grow by competitive accretion while lower-mass protostars are
stunted in growth by close encounters and many-body ejections. In the regime
explored here, the characteristic mass scale is determined by the temperature
floor set by the cosmic microwave background and by the onset of efficient
dust-gas coupling. It seems unlikely that host galaxies of the first bursts of
metal-enriched star formation will be detectable with the James Webb Space
Telescope or other next-generation infrared observatories. Instead, the most
promising access route to the dawn of cosmic star formation may lie in the
scrutiny of metal-poor, ancient stellar populations in the Galactic
neighborhood. The observable targets that correspond to the system simulated
here are ultra-faint dwarf satellite galaxies such as Bootes II, Segue I and
II, and Willman I.