The development of effective knowledge discovery techniques has become in the
recent few years a very active research area due to the important impact it has
in several relevant application areas. One interesting task thereof is that of
singling out anomalous individuals from a given population, e.g., to detect
rare events in time-series analysis settings, or to identify objects whose
behavior is deviant w.r.t. a codified standard set of "social" rules. Such
exceptional individuals are usually referred to as outliers in the literature.
  Recently, outlier detection has also emerged as a relevant KR&R problem. In
this paper, we formally state the concept of outliers by generalizing in
several respects an approach recently proposed in the context of default logic,
for instance, by having outliers not being restricted to single individuals
but, rather, in the more general case, to correspond to entire (sub)theories.
We do that within the context of logic programming and, mainly through
examples, we discuss its potential practical impact in applications. The
formalization we propose is a novel one and helps in shedding some light on the
real nature of outliers. Moreover, as a major contribution of this work, we
illustrate the exploitation of minimality criteria in outlier detection. The
computational complexity of outlier detection problems arising in this novel
setting is thoroughly investigated and accounted for in the paper as well.
Finally, we also propose a rewriting algorithm that transforms any outlier
detection problem into an equivalent inference problem under the stable model
semantics, thereby making outlier computation effective and realizable on top
of any stable model solver.