Variational inequality and complementarity problems have found utility in
modeling a range of optimization and equilibrium problems. Yet, while there has
been tremendous growth in addressing uncertainty in optimization, relatively
less progress has been seen in the context of variational inequality problems,
exceptions being efforts to solve variational inequality problems with
expectation-valued maps as well as suitably defined expected residual
minimization (ERM) problems. Both avenues necessitate distributional
information associated with the uncertainty and neither approach is explicitly
designed to provide robust solutions. Motivated by this gap, we define a robust
solution to a complementarity problem as one that minimizes the worst-case of
the gap function over a prescribed uncertainty set and requires feasibility for
every point in the uncertainty set. In what we believe is amongst the first
efforts to comprehensively address such problems in a distribution-free
environment, we present an avenue for obtaining robust solutions to uncertain
monotone and a subclass of non-monotone linear complementarity problems via a
low-dimensional convex program. In more general non-monotone regimes, we prove
that robust counterparts are low-dimensional nonconvex quadratically
constrained quadratic programs. By customizing an existing scheme to these
problems, robust solutions to uncertain non-monotone LCPs can be provided.
Importantly, these results can be extended to account for uncertainty in the
underlying sets by generalizing the results to uncertain affine variational
inequality problems defined over uncertain polyhedral sets as well as to
hierarchical regimes captured by mathematical programs with uncertain
complementarity constraints. Preliminary numerics on uncertain linear
complementarity problems and a traffic equilibrium case study suggest that such
avenues hold promise.