Constrained lossy source coding and channel coding with side information
problems which extend the classic Wyner-Ziv and Gel'fand-Pinsker problems are
considered. Inspired by applications in sensor networking and control, we first
consider lossy source coding with two-sided partial side information where the
quality/availability of the side information can be influenced by a
cost-constrained action sequence. A decoder reconstructs a source sequence
subject to the distortion constraint, and at the same time, an encoder is
additionally required to be able to estimate the decoder's reconstruction.
Next, we consider the channel coding "dual" where the channel state is assumed
to depend on the action sequence, and the decoder is required to decode both
the transmitted message and channel input reliably. Implications on the
fundamental limits of communication in discrete memoryless systems due to the
additional reconstruction constraints are investigated. Single-letter
expressions for the rate-distortion-cost function and channel capacity for the
respective source and channel coding problems are derived. The dual relation
between the two problems is discussed. Additionally, based on the two-stage
coding structure and the additional reconstruction constraint of the channel
coding problem, we discuss and give an interpretation of the two-stage coding
condition which appears in the channel capacity expression. Besides the rate
constraint on the message, this condition is a necessary and sufficient
condition for reliable transmission of the channel input sequence over the
channel in our "two-stage" communication problem. It is also shown in one
example that there exists a case where the two-stage coding condition can be
active in computing the capacity, and it thus can actively restrict the set of
capacity achieving input distributions.