In the framework of the scale invariant model of the Two Measures Field
Theory (TMT), we study the dilaton-gravity sector in the context of spatially
flat FRW cosmology. The scale invariance is spontaneously broken due to the
intrinsic features of the TMT dynamics. If no fine tuning is made, the
effective $\phi$-Lagrangian $p(\phi,X)$ depends quadratically upon the kinetic
term $X$. Hence TMT represents an explicit example of the effective k-essence
resulting from first principles without any exotic term in the underlying
action intended for obtaining this result. Depending of the choice of regions
in the parameter space (but without fine tuning), TMT exhibits interesting
outputs for cosmological dynamics, for example: a) Absence of initial
singularity of the curvature while its time derivative is singular. This is a
sort of "sudden" singularities studied by Barrow on purely kinematic grounds.
b) Power law inflation in the subsequent stage of evolution which ends with a
graceful exit into the state with zero cosmological constant (CC). c)
Possibility of resolution of the old CC problem. From the point of view of TMT,
it becomes clear why the old CC problem cannot be solved (without fine tuning)
in conventional field theories; d) There is a wide range of the parameters such
that in the late time universe: the equation-of-state w=p/\rho <-1; w
asymptotically (as t\to\infty) approaches -1 from below; $\rho$ approaches a
constant, the smallness of which does not require fine tuning of dimensionfull
parameters.