La0.7Ba0.3MnO3 (LBMO):Agx (x = 0.0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4) composites are
synthesized by solid-state reaction route, the final sintering temperatures are
varied from 1300 (LBMO1300Ag) to 1400 0C (LBMO1400Ag), and their physical
properties are compared as a function of temperature and Ag content. All
samples are crystallized in single phase accompanied by some distortion in main
structural phase peaks at higher angles with increase in silver content. Though
the lattice parameters (a, c) decrease, the b increases slightly with an
increase in Ag content. The scanning electron micrographs (SEM) showed better
grains morphology in terms of size and diffusion of grain boundaries with an
increase in Ag content. In both LBMO1300Ag and LBMO1400Ag series the metal
insulator transition (TMI) and accompanied paramagnetic-ferromagnetic
transition (TC) temperatures are decreased with increase in Ag content. The
sharpness of MI transition, defined by temperature coefficient of resistance
(TCR), is improved for Ag added samples. At a particular content of Ag(0.3),
the TMI and TC are tuned to 300K and maximum magneto-resistance at 7Tesla
applied field (MR7T) of up to 55% is achieved at this temperature, which is
more than double to that as observed for pure samples of the both 1300 and 1400
0C series at same temperature. The MR7T is further increased to above 60% for
LBMOAg(0.4) samples, but is at 270K. The MR7T is measured at varying
temperatures of 5, 100, 200, 300, and 400K in varying fields from +/- 7 Tesla,
which exhibits U and V type shapes. Summarily, the addition of Ag in LBMO
improves significantly the morphology of the grains and results in better
physical properties of the parent manganite system.