The number of vehicle used in the world are increasing day by day resulting
in the obvious problem of parking of these vehicles in residential and
vocational areas. We perceive the problem of vehicles parking in vocational
establishments / malls. Today majority of parking systems are manual parking
systems where in, on the spot, parking of the vehicle is done and a parking
slip is generated and handed over to customer. This is cumbersome technique
wherein various parking attendants in the parking areas manually keeps on
informing the Parking inspector on how many free parking slots available so
that only that many number of parking slips/tickets are generated as the number
of free parking slots. We address the problem of parking in Delay Tolerant
Network (DTN) by proposing metaheuristic driven approach of Ant Colony
optimization (ACO) technique with anycast semantics models . Here we propose
the parking architecture to solve the problem of parking especially in
commercial areas with their design diagrams . In this architecture we apply the
delivery model to deliver the packet correctly to the intended receiver. Using
this we can book various parkings through remote areas so that the customer can
get the information about availability of various parkings inside an area and
the parking fare for each category of the automobile. Using this architecture
the customer can get the prior knowledge about various vacant parking slots
inside a parking area and he can book the corresponding parking from his
location.