With the continuous development of science and technology, the intelligent
development of community system becomes a trend. Meanwhile, smart mobile
devices and cloud computing technology are increasingly used in intelligent
information systems; however, smart mobile devices such as smartphone and smart
pad, also known as thin clients, limited by either their capacities (CPU,
memory or battery) or their network resources, do not always meet users'
satisfaction in using mobile services. Mobile cloud computing, in which
resource-rich virtual machines of smart mobile device are provided to a
customer as a service, can be terrific solution for expanding the limitation of
real smart mobile device, but the resources utilization rate is low and the
information cannot be shared easily. To address the problems above, this paper
proposes an information system for intelligent community, which is composed of
thin clients, wide band network and cloud computing servers. On one hand, the
thin clients with the characteristics of energy efficiency, high robustness and
high computing capacity can efficiently avoid the problems encountered in the
PC architecture and mobile devices. On the other hand, the cloud computing
servers in the proposed information system solve the problems of resource
sharing barriers. Finally, the system is built in real environments to evaluate
the performance. We deploy the proposed system in a community with more than
2000 residents, and it is demonstrated that the proposed system is robust and
efficient.