The classical secretary problem investigates the question of how to hire the
best secretary from $n$ candidates who come in a uniformly random order. In
this work we investigate a parallel generalizations of this problem introduced
by Feldman and Tennenholtz [14]. We call it shared $Q$-queue $J$-choice
$K$-best secretary problem. In this problem, $n$ candidates are evenly
distributed into $Q$ queues, and instead of hiring the best one, the employer
wants to hire $J$ candidates among the best $K$ persons. The $J$ quotas are
shared by all queues. This problem is a generalized version of $J$-choice
$K$-best problem which has been extensively studied and it has more practical
value as it characterizes the parallel situation.
  Although a few of works have been done about this generalization, to the best
of our knowledge, no optimal deterministic protocol was known with general $Q$
queues. In this paper, we provide an optimal deterministic protocol for this
problem. The protocol is in the same style of the $1\over e$-solution for the
classical secretary problem, but with multiple phases and adaptive criteria.
Our protocol is very simple and efficient, and we show that several
generalizations, such as the fractional $J$-choice $K$-best secretary problem
and exclusive $Q$-queue $J$-choice $K$-best secretary problem, can be solved
optimally by this protocol with slight modification and the latter one solves
an open problem of Feldman and Tennenholtz [14].
  In addition, we provide theoretical analysis for two typical cases, including
the 1-queue 1-choice $K$-best problem and the shared 2-queue 2-choice 2-best
problem. For the former, we prove a lower bound $1-O(\frac{\ln^2K}{K^2})$ of
the competitive ratio. For the latter, we show the optimal competitive ratio is
$\approx0.372$ while previously the best known result is 0.356 [14].