The Parallel C++ Statistical Library for the Quantification of Uncertainty
for Estimation, Simulation and Optimization, Queso, is a collection of
statistical algorithms and programming constructs supporting research into the
quantification of uncertainty of models and their predictions. Queso is
primarily focused on solving statistical inverse problems using Bayes's
theorem, which expresses a distribution of possible values for a set of
uncertain parameters (the posterior distribution) in terms of the existing
knowledge of the system (the prior) and noisy observations of a physical
process, represented by a likelihood distribution. The posterior distribution
is not often known analytically, and so requires computational methods. It is
typical to compute probabilities and moments from the posterior distribution,
but this is often a high-dimensional object and standard Reimann-type methods
for quadrature become prohibitively expensive. The approach Queso takes in this
regard is to rely on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods which are well
suited to evaluating quantities such as probabilities and moments of
high-dimensional probability distributions. Queso's intended use is as tool to
assist and facilitate coupling uncertainty quantification to a specific
application called a forward problem. While many libraries presently exist that
solve Bayesian inference problems, Queso is a specialized piece of software
primarily designed to solve such problems by utilizing parallel environments
demanded by large-scale forward problems. Queso is written in C++, uses MPI,
and utilizes libraries already available to the scientific community.