The Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) is becoming a more available and
popular way of communicating for Internet users. This also applies to
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems and merging these two have already proven to be
successful (e.g. Skype). Even the existing standards of VoIP provide an
assurance of security and Quality of Service (QoS), however, these features are
usually optional and supported by limited number of implementations. As a
result, the lack of mandatory and widely applicable QoS and security guaranties
makes the contemporary VoIP systems vulnerable to attacks and network
disturbances. In this paper we are facing these issues and propose the SecMon
system, which simultaneously provides a lightweight security mechanism and
improves quality parameters of the call. SecMon is intended specially for VoIP
service over P2P networks and its main advantage is that it provides
authentication, data integrity services, adaptive QoS and (D)DoS attack
detection. Moreover, the SecMon approach represents a low-bandwidth consumption
solution that is transparent to the users and possesses a self-organizing
capability. The above-mentioned features are accomplished mainly by utilizing
two information hiding techniques: digital audio watermarking and network
steganography. These techniques are used to create covert channels that serve
as transport channels for lightweight QoS measurement's results. Furthermore,
these metrics are aggregated in a reputation system that enables best route
path selection in the P2P network. The reputation system helps also to mitigate
(D)DoS attacks, maximize performance and increase transmission efficiency in
the network.