We consider the problem of computing the q->p norm of a matrix A, which is
defined for p,q \ge 1, as |A|_{q->p} = max_{x !=0 } |Ax|_p / |x|_q. This is in
general a non-convex optimization problem, and is a natural generalization of
the well-studied question of computing singular values (this corresponds to
p=q=2). Different settings of parameters give rise to a variety of known
interesting problems (such as the Grothendieck problem when p=1 and q=\infty).
However, very little is understood about the approximability of the problem for
different values of p,q. Our first result is an efficient algorithm for
computing the q->p norm of matrices with non-negative entries, when q \ge p \ge
1. The algorithm we analyze is based on a natural fixed point iteration, which
can be seen as an analog of power iteration for computing eigenvalues. We then
present an application of our techniques to the problem of constructing a
scheme for oblivious routing in the l_p norm. This makes constructive a recent
existential result of Englert and R\"acke [ER] on O(log n)-competitive
oblivious routing schemes (which they make constructive only for p=2). On the
other hand, when we do not have any restrictions on the entries (such as
non-negativity), we prove that the problem is NP-hard to approximate to any
constant factor, for 2 < p \le q, and p \le q < 2 (these are precisely the
ranges of p,q with p\le q, where constant factor approximations are not known).
In this range, our techniques also show that if NP does not have
quasi-polynomial time algorithms, the q->p cannot be approximated to a factor
2^{(log n)^{1-eps}}, for any \eps>0.