A reflection map, induced by the deterministic Skorohod problem on the
nonnegative orthant, is applied to an $\mathbb{R}^n$ valued function $X$ on
$[0,\infty)$ and then to $a+X$, where $a$ is a nonnegative constant vector. A
question that has been open for over 15 years is under what conditions the
difference between the two resulting regulated functions converges to zero for
any choice of $a$ as time diverges. This in turn implies that if one imposes
enough stochastic structure that ensures that the reflection map applied to a
multidimensional process $X$ converges in distribution then it will also
converge in distribution when it is applied to $\eta+X$ where $\eta$ is any
almost surely finite valued random vector that may even depend on the process
$X$. In this paper we obtain a useful equivalent characterization of this
property. As a result we are able to identify a natural sufficient condition in
terms of the given data $X$ and the constant routing matrix. A similar
necessary condition is also indicated. A particular implication of our analysis
is that under additional stochastic assumptions, asymptotic irrelevance of the
initial condition does note require the existence of a stationary distribution.
As immediate corollaries of our (and earlier) results we conclude that under
the natural stability conditions, a reflected L\'evy process as well as Markov
additive process has a unique stationary distribution and converges in
distribution to this stationary distribution for every initial condition.
Extensions of the sufficient condition are then developed for reflection maps
with drift and routing coefficients that may be time and state dependent; some
implications to multidimensional insurance models are briefly discussed.