Identifying clusters of similar objects in data plays a significant role in a
wide range of applications. As a model problem for clustering, we consider the
densest k-disjoint-clique problem, whose goal is to identify the collection of
k disjoint cliques of a given weighted complete graph maximizing the sum of the
densities of the complete subgraphs induced by these cliques. In this paper, we
establish conditions ensuring exact recovery of the densest k cliques of a
given graph from the optimal solution of a particular semidefinite program. In
particular, the semidefinite relaxation is exact for input graphs corresponding
to data consisting of k large, distinct clusters and a smaller number of
outliers. This approach also yields a semidefinite relaxation for the
biclustering problem with similar recovery guarantees. Given a set of objects
and a set of features exhibited by these objects, biclustering seeks to
simultaneously group the objects and features according to their expression
levels. This problem may be posed as partitioning the nodes of a weighted
bipartite complete graph such that the sum of the densities of the resulting
bipartite complete subgraphs is maximized. As in our analysis of the densest
k-disjoint-clique problem, we show that the correct partition of the objects
and features can be recovered from the optimal solution of a semidefinite
program in the case that the given data consists of several disjoint sets of
objects exhibiting similar features. Empirical evidence from numerical
experiments supporting these theoretical guarantees is also provided.