We study highly oscillating solutions to a class of weakly well-posed
hyperbolic initial boundary value problems. Weak well-posedness is associated
with an amplification phenomenon of oscillating waves on the boundary. In the
previous works [CGW14, CW14], we have rigorously justified a weakly nonlinear
regime for semilinear problems. In that case, the forcing term on the boundary
has amplitude O($\epsilon$^2) and oscillates at a frequency O(1/$\epsilon$).
The corresponding exact solution, which has been shown to exist on a time
interval that is independent of $\epsilon$ $\in$ (0,1], has amplitude
O($\epsilon$). In this paper, we deal with the exact same scaling, namely
O($\epsilon$^2) forcing term on the boundary and O($\epsilon$) solution, for
quasilinear problems. In analogy with [CGM03], this corresponds to a strongly
nonlinear regime, and our main result proves solvability for the corresponding
WKB cascade of equations, which yields existence of approximate solutions on a
time interval that is independent of $\epsilon$ $\in$ (0,1]. Existence of exact
solutions close to approximate ones is a stability issue which, as shown in
[CGM03], highly depends on the hyperbolic system and on the boundary
conditions; we do not address that question here. This work encompasses
previous formal expansions in the case of weakly stable shock waves [MR83] and
two-dimensional compressible vortex sheets [AM87]. In particular, we prove
well-posedness for the leading amplitude equation (the "Mach stem equation") of
[MR83] and generalize its derivation to a large class of hyperbolic boundary
value problems and to periodic forcing terms. The latter case is solved under a
crucial nonresonant assumption and a small divisor condition.