The Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), confined in a combination of the
cigar-shaped trap and axial optical lattice, is studied in the framework of two
models described by two versions of the one-dimensional (1D) discrete
nonpolynomial Schr\"odinger equation (NPSE). Both models are derived from the
three-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation (3D GPE). To produce "model 1"
(which was derived in recent works), the 3D GPE is first reduced to the 1D
continual NPSE, which is subsequently discretized. "Model 2", that was not
considered before, is derived by first discretizing the 3D GPE, which is
followed by the reduction of the dimension. The two models seem very different;
in particular, model 1 is represented by a single discrete equation for the 1D
wave function, while model 2 includes an additional equation for the transverse
width. Nevertheless, numerical analyses show similar behaviors of fundamental
unstaggered solitons in both systems, as concerns their existence region and
stability limits. Both models admit the collapse of the localized modes,
reproducing the fundamental property of the self-attractive BEC confined in
tight traps. Thus, we conclude that the fundamental properties of discrete
solitons predicted for the strongly trapped self-attracting BEC are reliable,
as the two distinct models produce them in a nearly identical form. However, a
difference between the models is found too, as strongly pinned (very narrow)
discrete solitons, which were previously found in model 1, are not generated by
model 2 -- in fact, in agreement with the continual 1D NPSE, which does not
have such solutions either. In that respect, the newly derived model provides
for a more accurate approximation for the trapped BEC.