The objective of this paper is to design an efficient and convergent
alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) for finding a solution of
medium accuracy to conic programming problems whose constraints consist of
linear equalities, linear inequalities, a non-polyhedral cone and a polyhedral
cone. For this class of problems, one may apply the directly extended ADMM to
their dual, which can be written in the form of convex programming with four
separable blocks in the objective function and a coupling linear equation
constraint. Indeed, the directly extended ADMM, though may diverge in theory,
often performs much better numerically than many of its variants with
theoretical convergence guarantee. Ideally, one should find a convergent
variant which is at least as efficient as the directly extended ADMM in
practice. We achieve this goal by designing a convergent semi-proximal ADMM
(called sPADMM3c for convenience) for convex programming problems having three
separable blocks in the objective function with the third part being linear. At
each iteration, the proposed sPADMM3c takes one special block coordinate
descent (BCD) cycle with the order $1 \rightarrow 3 \rightarrow 2 \rightarrow
3$, instead of the usual $1 \rightarrow 2 \rightarrow 3$ Gauss-Seidel BCD cycle
used in the non-convergent directly extended $3$-block ADMM, for updating the
variable blocks. Our extensive numerical tests on the important class of doubly
non-negative semidefinite programming (SDP) problems with linear equality
and/or inequality constraints demonstrate that our convergent method is at
least $20%$ faster than the directly extended ADMM with unit step-length for
the vast majority of about $550$ large scale problems tested.