The covariate shift is a challenging problem in supervised learning that
results from the discrepancy between the training and test distributions. An
effective approach which recently drew a considerable attention in the research
community is to reweight the training samples to minimize that discrepancy. In
specific, many methods are based on developing Density-ratio (DR) estimation
techniques that apply to both regression and classification problems. Although
these methods work well for regression problems, their performance on
classification problems is not satisfactory. This is due to a key observation
that these methods focus on matching the sample marginal distributions without
paying attention to preserving the separation between classes in the reweighted
space. In this paper, we propose a novel method for Discriminative
Density-ratio (DDR) estimation that addresses the aforementioned problem and
aims at estimating the density-ratio of joint distributions in a class-wise
manner. The proposed algorithm is an iterative procedure that alternates
between estimating the class information for the test data and estimating new
density ratio for each class. To incorporate the estimated class information of
the test data, a soft matching technique is proposed. In addition, we employ an
effective criterion which adopts mutual information as an indicator to stop the
iterative procedure while resulting in a decision boundary that lies in a
sparse region. Experiments on synthetic and benchmark datasets demonstrate the
superiority of the proposed method in terms of both accuracy and robustness.