One of the most important open problems in machine scheduling is the problem
of scheduling a set of jobs on unrelated machines to minimize the makespan. The
best known approximation algorithm for this problem guarantees an approximation
factor of 2. It is known to be NP-hard to approximate with a better ratio than
3/2. Closing this gap has been open for over 20 years. The best known
approximation factors are achieved by LP-based algorithms. The strongest known
linear program formulation for the problem is the configuration-LP. We show
that the configuration-LP has an integrality gap of 2 even for the special case
of unrelated graph balancing, where each job can be assigned to at most two
machines. In particular, our result implies that a large family of cuts does
not help to diminish the integrality gap of the canonical assignment-LP. Also,
we present cases of the problem which can be approximated with a better factor
than 2. They constitute valuable insights for constructing an NP-hardness
reduction which improves the known lower bound. Very recently Svensson studied
the restricted assignment case, where each job can only be assigned to a given
set of machines on which it has the same processing time. He shows that in this
setting the configuration-LP has an integrality gap of 33/17<2. Hence, our
result imply that the unrelated graph balancing case is significantly more
complex than the restricted assignment case. Then we turn to another objective
function: maximizing the minimum machine load. For the case that every job can
be assigned to at most two machines we give a purely combinatorial
2-approximation algorithm which is best possible, unless P=NP. This improves on
the computationally costly LP-based (2+eps)-approximation algorithm by
Chakrabarty et al.