In many real-life optimisation problems, there are multiple interacting
components in a solution. For example, different components might specify
assignments to different kinds of resource. Often, each component is associated
with different sets of soft constraints, and so with different measures of soft
constraint violation. The goal is then to minimise a linear combination of such
measures. This paper studies an approach to such problems, which can be thought
of as multiphase exploitation of multiple objective-/value-restricted
submodels. In this approach, only one computationally difficult component of a
problem and the associated subset of objectives is considered at first. This
produces partial solutions, which define interesting neighbourhoods in the
search space of the complete problem. Often, it is possible to pick the initial
component so that variable aggregation can be performed at the first stage, and
the neighbourhoods to be explored next are guaranteed to contain feasible
solutions. Using integer programming, it is then easy to implement heuristics
producing solutions with bounds on their quality.
  Our study is performed on a university course timetabling problem used in the
2007 International Timetabling Competition, also known as the Udine Course
Timetabling Problem. In the proposed heuristic, an objective-restricted
neighbourhood generator produces assignments of periods to events, with
decreasing numbers of violations of two period-related soft constraints. Those
are relaxed into assignments of events to days, which define neighbourhoods
that are easier to search with respect to all four soft constraints. Integer
programming formulations for all subproblems are given and evaluated using ILOG
CPLEX 11. The wider applicability of this approach is analysed and discussed.