We introduce the cross-composition framework for proving kernelization lower
bounds. A classical problem L AND/OR-cross-composes into a parameterized
problem Q if it is possible to efficiently construct an instance of Q with
polynomially bounded parameter value that expresses the logical AND or OR of a
sequence of instances of L. Building on work by Bodlaender et al. (ICALP 2008)
and using a result by Fortnow and Santhanam (STOC 2008) with a refinement by
Dell and van Melkebeek (STOC 2010), we show that if an NP-hard problem
OR-cross-composes into a parameterized problem Q then Q does not admit a
polynomial kernel unless NP \subseteq coNP/poly and the polynomial hierarchy
collapses. Similarly, an AND-cross-composition for Q rules out polynomial
kernels for Q under Bodlaender et al.'s AND-distillation conjecture.
  Our technique generalizes and strengthens the recent techniques of using
composition algorithms and of transferring the lower bounds via polynomial
parameter transformations. We show its applicability by proving kernelization
lower bounds for a number of important graphs problems with structural
(non-standard) parameterizations, e.g., Clique, Chromatic Number, Weighted
Feedback Vertex Set, and Weighted Odd Cycle Transversal do not admit polynomial
kernels with respect to the vertex cover number of the input graphs unless the
polynomial hierarchy collapses, contrasting the fact that these problems are
trivially fixed-parameter tractable for this parameter.
  After learning of our results, several teams of contributors have successfully
applied the cross-composition framework to different parameterized problems.
For completeness, our presentation of the framework includes several extensions
based on this follow-up work. For example, we show how a relaxed version of
OR-cross-compositions may be used to give lower bounds on the degree of the
polynomial in the kernel size.