Connectivity augmentation and orientation are two fundamental classes of
problems related to graph connectivity. The former includes k-edge-connected
subgraph and more generally, survivable network design problem. In orientation
problems the goal is to find orientations of an undirected graph that achieve
prescribed connectivity properties such as global and rooted k-edge
connectivity. In this paper, we consider network design problems that address
combined augmentation and orientation settings.
  We give a polynomial time 6-approximation algorithm for finding a minimum
cost subgraph of an undirected graph G that admits an orientation covering a
nonnegative crossing G-supermodular demand function, as defined by Frank. The
most important example is (k,l)-edge-connectivity, a common generalization of
global and rooted edge-connectivity. Our algorithm is based on the iterative
rounding method though the application is not standard. First, we observe that
the standard linear program is not amenable to the iterative rounding method
and therefore use an alternative LP with partition and co-partition
constraints. To apply the iterative rounding framework, we first need to
introduce new uncrossing techniques to obtain a simple family of constraints
that characterize basic feasible solutions. Then we do a careful counting
argument based on this family of constraints.
  We also consider the directed network design problem with orientation
constraints where we are given an undirected graph G=(V,E) with costs c(u,v)
and c(v,u) for each edge (u,v) in E and an integer k. The goal is to find a
subgraph F of minimum cost which has an k-edge connected orientation A. Khanna
et al showed that the integrality gap of the natural linear program is at most
4 when k=1 and conjectured that it is constant for all k. We disprove this
conjecture by showing an O(|V|)-integrality gap even when k=2.