The metric uncapacitated facility location problem (UFL) enjoys a special
stature in approximation algorithms as a testbed for various techniques. Two
generalizations of UFL are capacitated facility location (CFL) and
lower-bounded facility location (LBFL). In the former, every facility has a
capacity which is the maximum demand that can be assigned to it, while in the
latter, every open facility is required to serve a given minimum amount of
demand. Both CFL and LBFL are approximable within a constant factor but their
respective natural LP relaxations have an unbounded integrality gap. According
to Shmoys and Williamson, the existence of a relaxation-based algorithm for CFL
is one of the top 10 open problems in approximation algorithms.
  In this paper we give the first results on this problem. We provide
substantial evidence against the existence of a good LP relaxation for CFL by
showing unbounded integrality gaps for two families of strengthened
formulations.
  The first family we consider is the hierarchy of LPs resulting from repeated
applications of the lift-and-project Lov\'{a}sz-Schrijver procedure starting
from the standard relaxation. We show that the LP relaxation for CFL resulting
after $\Omega(n)$ rounds, where $n$ is the number of facilities in the
instance, has unbounded integrality gap. Note that the Lov\'{a}sz-Schrijver
procedure is known to yield an exact formulation for CFL in at most $n$ rounds.
  We also introduce the family of proper relaxations which generalizes to its
logical extreme the classic star relaxation, an equivalent form of the natural
LP. We characterize the integrality gap of proper relaxations for both LBFL and
CFL and show a threshold phenomenon under which it decreases from unbounded to
1.