Cross layer techniques applied to various protocols stacks provide fair
information sharing between OSI model layers. The performance gains have been
demonstrated for many studied systems within protocols interactions. The
example is illustrative of the reliable transport protocols that use
retransmissions to achieve that reliability function. The performance gains of
the persistent timeout policy for the management of the retransmission timeout
have been produce in some recent works when applying that persistent timeout
policy only to reliable transport protocol. The goal was to give an appropriate
behavior in response to a bad state of the wireless channel that occurs and
temporally blocks the transmission of data. The channel state is given by the
802.11 link layer through cross-layer mechanism. In this paper, the persistent
policy is extended to the network layer and is applied to a stack that uses a
reactive routing protocol, namely the Destination Sequenced Distance-Vector
(DSDV) protocol that also generates additional periodic traffic regardless to
the channel state. We are measuring the influence in terms of performance gains
of the extended persistent policy because of the additional periodic
signalization messages deriving from the used routing protocol. After the
introduction in section I; Section II of this paper presents an overview of the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP). Section III describes the behavior
of the DSDV protocol. Section IV presents the extended persistent timeout
policy principle and Section V presents the simulation results used to compare
the using of the traditional and the extended persistent timeout policies
applied to the same protocol stack using SCTP and DSDV.