We study a very general class of games --- multi-dimensional aggregative
games --- which in particular generalize both anonymous games and weighted
congestion games. For any such game that is also large, we solve the
equilibrium selection problem in a strong sense. In particular, we give an
efficient weak mediator: a mechanism which has only the power to listen to
reported types and provide non-binding suggested actions, such that (a) it is
an asymptotic Nash equilibrium for every player to truthfully report their type
to the mediator, and then follow its suggested action; and (b) that when
players do so, they end up coordinating on a particular asymptotic pure
strategy Nash equilibrium of the induced complete information game. In fact,
truthful reporting is an ex-post Nash equilibrium of the mediated game, so our
solution applies even in settings of incomplete information, and even when
player types are arbitrary or worst-case (i.e. not drawn from a common prior).
We achieve this by giving an efficient differentially private algorithm for
computing a Nash equilibrium in such games. The rates of convergence to
equilibrium in all of our results are inverse polynomial in the number of
players $n$. We also apply our main results to a multi-dimensional market game.
  Our results can be viewed as giving, for a rich class of games, a more robust
version of the Revelation Principle, in that we work with weaker informational
assumptions (no common prior), yet provide a stronger solution concept (ex-post
Nash versus Bayes Nash equilibrium). In comparison to previous work, our main
conceptual contribution is showing that weak mediators are a game theoretic
object that exist in a wide variety of games -- previously, they were only
known to exist in traffic routing games.