Capacity scaling of a large hybrid network with unit node density, consisting
of $n$ wireless ad hoc nodes, base stations (BSs) equipped with multiple
antennas, and one remote central processor (RCP), is analyzed when wired
backhaul links between the BSs and the RCP are rate-limited. We deal with a
general scenario where the number of BSs, the number of antennas at each BS,
and the backhaul link rate can scale at arbitrary rates relative to $n$ (i.e.,
we introduce three scaling parameters). We first derive the minimum backhaul
link rate required to achieve the same capacity scaling law as in the
infinite-capacity backhaul link case. Assuming an arbitrary rate scaling of
each backhaul link, a generalized achievable throughput scaling law is then
analyzed in the network based on using one of pure multihop, hierarchical
cooperation, and two infrastructure-supported routing protocols, and moreover,
three-dimensional information-theoretic operating regimes are explicitly
identified according to the three scaling parameters. In particular, we show
the case where our network having a power limitation is also fundamentally in
the degrees-of-freedom- or infrastructure-limited regime, or both. In addition,
a generalized cut-set upper bound under the network model is derived by cutting
not only the wireless connections but also the wired connections. It is shown
that our upper bound matches the achievable throughput scaling even under
realistic network conditions such that each backhaul link rate scales slower
than the aforementioned minimum-required backhaul link rate.