Coupled problems with various combinations of multiple physics, scales, and
domains can be found in numerous areas of science and engineering. A key
challenge in the formulation and implementation of corresponding coupled models
is to facilitate communication of information across physics, scale, and domain
interfaces, as well as between iterations of solvers used for response
computations. In a probabilistic context, any information that is to be
communicated between subproblems or iterations should be characterized by an
appropriate probabilistic representation. In this work, we consider stochastic
coupled problems whose subproblems involve only uncertainties that are
statistically independent of one another; for these problems, we present a
characterization of the exchanged information by using a reduced chaos
expansion with random coefficients. This expansion provides a
reduced-dimensional representation of the exchanged information, while
maintaining segregation between sources of uncertainty that stem from different
subproblems. Further, we present a measure transformation that allows
stochastic expansion methods to exploit this dimension reduction to obtain an
efficient solution of subproblems in a reduced-dimensional space. We show that
owing to the uncertainty source segregation, requisite orthonormal polynomials
and quadrature rules can be readily obtained by tensorization. Finally, the
proposed methodology is demonstrated by applying it to a multiphysics problem
in nuclear engineering.