We report DC magnetization, detailed systematic linear and nonlinear AC
magnetic susceptibility and transport for a single phase
RuSr2Eu1.4Ce0.6Cu2O10-{\delta} (EuRu-1222) magneto-superconductor. The studied
sample is synthesized through standard solid state reaction route, which is
crystallized in single phase tetragonal structure with space group I4/mmm. DC
magnetic susceptibility measurements revealed that the studied EuRu-1222 is a
magneto-superconductor with Ru spins ordering at around 110 K and
superconductivity in the Cu-O2 planes below \approx 30 K. Temperature
dependence of AC susceptibility with different frequency and amplitude
variations confirms spin-glass behavior with cluster ferromagnetism of the
system. Change in the cusp position with frequency follows the Vogel-Fulcher
law, which is commonly accepted feature for a spin-glass (SG) system with
ferromagnetic clusters. The third harmonic of AC susceptibility (\c{hi}3) shows
that the system undergoes a spin glass transition below 80 K. Superconducting
transition temperature (Tc) onset and {\rho} = 0 are seen at around 30 and 18 K
without any applied field and the same decreases to 10 and 2 K under 130 kOe
applied field. Also low fields isothermal (MH) suggests that ferromagnetic
clusters are embedded in spin-glass (SG) matrix. The magnetization vs. applied
field (MH) loops exhibited ferromagnetic (FM) like behavior with rather small
coercive fields. Detailed AC magnetic susceptibility measurements are carried
out to unearth the short range magnetic correlations. These results support the
spin-glass (SG) formation followed by ferromagnetic clustering effects at low
temperatures. Our detailed magnetization and magneto transport results will
undoubtedly contribute to current understanding of the complex magnetism of the
EuRu-1222 system.