The Hardy-Littlewood majorant problem was raised in the 30's and it can be
formulated as the question whether $\int |f|^p\ge \int|g|^p$ whenever
$\hat{f}\ge|\hat g|$. It has a positive answer only for exponents $p$ which are
even integers. Montgomery conjectured that even among the idempotent
polynomials there must exist some counterexamples, i.e. there exists some
finite set of exponentials and some $\pm$ signs with which the signed
exponential sum has larger $p^{\rm th}$ norm than the idempotent obtained with
all the signs chosen + in the exponential sum. That conjecture was proved
recently by Mockenhaupt and Schlag. \comment{Their construction was used by
Bonami and R\'ev\'esz to find analogous examples among bivariate idempotents,
which were in turn used to show integral concentration properties of univariate
idempotents.}However, a natural question is if even the classical $1+e^{2\pi i
x} \pm e^{2\pi i (k+2)x}$ three-term exponential sums, used for $p=3$ and $k=1$
already by Hardy and Littlewood, should work in this respect. That remained
unproved, as the construction of Mockenhaupt and Schlag works with four-term
idempotents. We investigate the sharpened question and show that at least in
certain cases there indeed exist three-term idempotent counterexamples in the
Hardy-Littlewood majorant problem; that is we have for $0<p<6, p \notin 2\NN$
$\int_0^{\frac12}|1+e^{2\pi ix}-e^{2\pi i([\frac p2]+2)x}|^p >
\int_0^{\frac12}|1+e^{2\pi ix}+e^{2\pi i([\frac p2]+2)x}|^p$. The proof
combines delicate calculus with numerical integration and precise error
estimates.