This paper studies baryons and baryonic matter in the combined large N_c and
heavy quark mass limits of QCD in 1+1 dimension. In this non-relativistic
limit, baryons are composed of N_c quarks that interact, at leading order in
N_c, through a color Coulomb potential. Using variational techniques, very
accurate calculations of single baryon masses and interaction energies of
low-density baryon crystal are performed. These results are used to cross-check
a general numerical approach applicable for arbitrary quark masses and baryon
densities recently proposed by Bringoltz, which is based on a lattice in a
finite box with periodic boundary conditions. The Bringoltz method differs from
a previous approach of Salcedo, et al. in its treatment of a finite box effect
- namely gauge configurations that wind around the box. One might expect these
effects to be small for large enough boxes, in which the baryon density
approaches zero to high accuracy at the edges. However, the effects of these
windings appear to be quite large even in such boxes. The large mass infinite
volume calculations performed here are consistent with the results of numerical
calculations using the Bringoltz method. The calculation of the baryon crystal
interaction energy requires the assumption that at low-densities the ground
state is composed of individual baryons, each in a color-singlet state and
orthogonal to each other. This assumption is plausible but ad hoc in that one
can construct configurations in which the entire state is color-singlet but
cannot be broken into individual color-singlet baryons. The interaction energy
of low-density baryon crystals calculated with the assumption is consistent
with numerical results based on Bringoltz's approach suggesting that the
assumption is justified. This further supports a similar assumption that was
made in 3+1 dimensions, where no alternative means of calculation exist.