(abridged) The high-resolution X-ray spectrum of NGC 3783 shows several dozen
absorption lines and a few emission lines from the H-like and He-like ions of
O, Ne, Mg, Si, and S as well as from Fe XVII - Fe XXIII L-shell transitions. We
have reanalyzed the Chandra HETGS spectrum using better flux and wavelength
calibrations along with more robust methods. Combining several lines from each
element, we clearly demonstrate the existence of the absorption lines and
determine they are blueshifted relative to the systemic velocity by -610+/-130
km/s. We find the Ne absorption lines in the High Energy Grating spectrum to be
resolved with FWHM=840{+490}{-360} km/s. We have used regions in the spectrum
where no lines are expected to determine the X-ray continuum, and we model the
absorption and emission lines using photoionized-plasma calculations. The model
consists of two absorption components which have an order of magnitude
difference in their ionization parameters. The two components are spherically
outflowing from the AGN and thus contribute to both the absorption and the
emission via P Cygni profiles. The model also clearly requires O VII and O VIII
absorption edges. The low-ionization component of our model can plausibly
produce UV absorption lines with equivalent widths consistent with those
observed from NGC 3783. However, we note that this result is highly sensitive
to the unobservable UV-to-X-ray continuum, and the available UV and X-ray
observations cannot firmly establish the relationship between the UV and X-ray
absorbers. We find good agreement between the Chandra spectrum and simultaneous
ASCA and RXTE observations. We set an upper limit on the FWHM of the narrow
Fe K\alpha emission line of 3250 km/s. This is consistent with this line
originating outside the broad line region, possibly from a torus.