We analyze the vertical distribution of the resolved stellar populations in
six low-mass, edge-on, spiral galaxies observed with the Hubble Space Telescope
Advanced Camera for Surveys. In each galaxy we find evidence for an extraplanar
stellar component extending up to 15 scale heights (3.5 kpc) above the plane.
We analyze the vertical distribution as a function of stellar age by tracking
changes in the color-magnitude diagram. The young stellar component (<10^8 yrs)
is found to have a scale height larger than the young component in the Milky
Way, suggesting that stars in these low mass galaxies form in a thicker disk.
We also find that the scale height of a stellar population increases with age,
with young main sequence stars, intermediate age asymptotic giant branch stars,
and old red giant branch stars having succesively larger scale heights in each
galaxy. This systematic trend indicates that disk heating must play some role
in producing the extraplanar stars. We constrain the rate of disk heating using
the observed trend between scale height and stellar age, and find that the
observed heating rates are dramatically smaller than in the Milky Way. The
color distributions of the red giant branch stars well above the midplane
indicate that the extended stellar components we see are moderately metal-poor,
with peak metallicities around [Fe/H]=-1 and with little or no metallicity
gradient with height. The lack of metallicity gradient can be explained if a
majority of extraplanar RGB stars were formed at early times and are not
dominated by a younger heated population. Our observations suggest that, like
the Milky Way, low-mass disk galaxies also have multiple stellar components. In
its structure, mean metallicity and old age, the RGB component in these
galaxies seems analagous to the Milky Way thick disk. [ABRIDGED]