We present results from a Chandra observation of the central region of the
galaxy cluster A3667, with emphasis on the prominent sharp X-ray brightness
edge spanning 0.5 Mpc near the cluster core. Our temperature map shows
large-scale nonuniformities characteristic of the ongoing merger, in agreement
with earlier ASCA results. The brightness edge turns out to be a boundary of a
large cool gas cloud moving through the hot ambient gas, very similar to the
"cold fronts" discovered by Chandra in A2142. The higher quality of the A3667
data allows the direct determination of the cloud velocity. At the leading edge
of the cloud, the gas density abruptly increases by a factor of 3.9+-0.8, while
the temperature decreases by a factor of 1.9+-0.2 (from 7.7 keV to 4.1 keV).
The ratio of the gas pressures inside and outside the front shows that the
cloud moves through the ambient gas at near-sonic velocity, M=1+-0.2 or
v=1400+-300 km/s. In front of the cloud, we observe the compression of the
ambient gas with an amplitude expected for such a velocity. A smaller surface
brightness discontinuity is observed further ahead, ~350 kpc in front of the
cloud. We suggest that it corresponds to a weak bow shock, implying that the
cloud velocity may be slightly supersonic. Given all the evidence, the cold
front appears to delineate the remnant of a cool subcluster that recently has
merged with A3667. The cold front is remarkably sharp. The upper limit on its
width, 3.5 arcsec or 5 kpc, is several times smaller than the Coulomb mean free
path. This is a direct observation of suppression of the transport processes in
the intergalactic medium, most likely by magnetic fields.