We use a combination of three-dimensional Monte Carlo radiative transfer
techniques and multi-wavelength (BRHK,H alpha) imaging data to investigate the
nature of the interstellar medium (ISM) in the edge-on, low surface brightness
(LSB) galaxy UGC7321. Using realistic models that incorporate multiple
scattering effects and clumping of the stars and the interstellar material, we
explore the distribution and opacity of the interstellar material (gas+dust),
and its effects on the observed stellar disk luminosity profiles, color
gradients, and rotation curve shape. We find that UGC7321 contains a small but
non-negligible dusty component to its ISM, yielding a B-band optical depth
tau_e,B~4.0 from disk edge to center. A significant fraction (~50+/-10%) of the
interstellar material in the innermost regions of UGC7321 appears to be
contained in a clumpy medium, indicating that LSB galaxies can support a
modest, multi-phase ISM structure. In spite of the clear presence of dust, we
conclude that the large radial optical color gradients observed in UGC7321 and
other similar LSB spiral galaxies cannot be accounted for by dust and must
result primarily from significant stellar population and/or metallicity
gradients. We show that realistic optical depth effects will have little impact
on the observed rotation curves of edge-on disk galaxies and cannot explain the
linear, slowly rising rotation curves seen in some edge-on LSB spirals.
Projection effects create a far larger uncertainty in recovering the true
underlying rotation curve shape of galaxies viewed at inclinations i>85
degrees.