We present 2-D radiation transfer models of Class I Protostars and show the
effect of including more realistic geometries on the resulting spectral energy
distributions and images. We begin with a rotationally flattened infalling
envelope as our comparison model, and add a flared disk and bipolar cavity. The
disk affects the spectral energy distribution most strongly at edge-on
inclinations, causing a broad dip at about 10 um (independent of the silicate
feature) due to high extinction and low scattering albedo in this wavelength
region. The bipolar cavities allow more direct stellar+disk radiation to emerge
into polar directions, and more scattering radiation to emerge into all
directions. The wavelength-integrated flux, often interpreted as luminosity,
varies with viewing angle, with pole-on viewing angles seeing 2-4 times as much
flux as edge-on, depending on geometry. Thus, observational estimates of
luminosity should take into account the inclination of a source. The envelopes
with cavities are significantly bluer in near-IR and mid-IR color-color plots
than those without cavities. Using 1-D models to interpret Class I sources with
bipolar cavities would lead to an underestimate of envelope mass and an
overestimate of the implied evolutionary state. We compute images at near-,
mid-, and far-IR wavelengths. We find that the mid-IR colors and images are
sensitive to scattering albedo, and that the flared disk shadows the midplane
on large size scales at all wavelengths plotted. Finally, our models produce
polarization spectra which can be used to diagnose dust properties, such as
albedo variations due to grain growth. Our results of polarization across the
3.1 um ice feature agree well with observations for ice mantles covering 5% of
the radius of the grains.