We present detailed evidence for a warm absorber in the Seyfert 1 galaxy
MCG--6-30-15 and dispute earlier claims for relativistic O line emission. The
HETG spectra show numerous narrow, unresolved (FWHM < 200 km/s) absorption
lines from a wide range of ionization states of N, O, Mg, Ne, Si, S, Ar, and
Fe. The O VII edge and 1s^2--1snp resonance line series to n=9 are clearly
detected at rest in the AGN frame. We attribute previous reports of an
apparently highly redshifted O VII edge to the 1s^2--1snp (n > 5) O VII
resonance lines, and a neutral Fe L absorption complex. The shape of the Fe L
feature is nearly identical to that seen in the spectra of several X-ray
binaries, and in laboratory data. The implied dust column density agrees with
that obtained from reddening studies, and gives the first direct X-ray evidence
for dust embedded in a warm absorber. The O VIII resonance lines and weak edge
are also detected, and the spectral rollover below 2 keV is explained by the
superposition of numerous absorption lines and edges. We identify, for the
first time, a KLL resonance in the O VI photoabsorption cross section, giving a
measure of the O VI column density. The O VII (f) emission detected at the
systemic velocity implies a covering fraction of ~5% (depending on the observed
vs. time-averaged ionizing flux). Our observations show that a dusty warm
absorber model is not only adequate to explain all the spectral features > 0.48
keV (< 26 \AA) the data REQUIRE it. This contradicts the interpretation of
Branduardi-Raymont et al. (2001) that this spectral region is dominated by
highly relativistic line emission from the vicinity of the black hole.