Quasar feedback in the form of powerful outflows is invoked as a key
mechanism to quench star formation in galaxies, preventing massive galaxies to
over-grow and producing the red colors of ellipticals. On the other hand, some
models are also requiring `positive' AGN feedback, inducing star formation in
the host galaxy through enhanced gas pressure in the interstellar medium.
However, finding observational evidence of the effects of both types of
feedback is still one of the main challenges of extragalactic astronomy, as few
observations of energetic and extended radiatively-driven winds are available.
Here we present SINFONI near infrared integral field spectroscopy of XID2028,
an obscured, radio-quiet z=1.59 QSO detected in the XMM-COSMOS survey, in which
we clearly resolve a fast (1500 km/s) and extended (up to 13 kpc from the black
hole) outflow in the [OIII] lines emitting gas, whose large velocity and
outflow rate are not sustainable by star formation only. The narrow component
of Ha emission and the rest frame U band flux from HST-ACS imaging enable to
map the current star formation in the host galaxy: both tracers independently
show that the outflow position lies in the center of an empty cavity surrounded
by star forming regions on its edge. The outflow is therefore removing the gas
from the host galaxy (`negative feedback'), but also triggering star formation
by outflow induced pressure at the edges (`positive feedback'). XID2028
represents the first example of a host galaxy showing both types of feedback
simultaneously at work.