Maximal planar graph refers to the planar graph with the most edges, which
means no more edges can be added so that the resulting graph is still planar.
The Four-Color Conjecture says that every planar graph without loops is
4-colorable. Indeed, in order to prove Four-Color Conjecture, it clearly
suffices to show that all maximal planar graphs are 4-colorable. Since this
conjecture was proposed in 1852, no mathematical proofs have been invented up
until now. Maybe the main reasons lie in the following three aspects in terms
of maximal planar graphs: not clearing up the structures, not figuring out the
coloring types, and not straightening out the relation between structure and
coloring. For this, we will write a series of articles to study the structure
and coloring theory of maximal planar graphs systematically. This is our first
article, which focuses mainly on the structure and coloring relations. First,
we introduce a new way to construct maximal planar graphs. The advantage of
this method is that it establishes an immediate relation with 4-colorings, and
reveals how a given maximal planar graph is generated. Second, a special class
of maximal planar graphs--recursive maximal planar graphs is researched in
depth, which lays a foundation for solving the uniquely 4-colorable planar
graphs conjecture(see subsequent articles). Third, we discover an important
mode for classifying 4-colorings: tree-coloring and cycle-coloring, which runs
through the whole series of articles. Furthermore, this mode is applied to the
research on an arbitrary 4-coloring and its corresponding structure of unions
of two and three bicolored subgraphs. Finally, we introduce the concepts of
black-white coloring and stamen phenomenon, and find out a necessary and
sufficient condition for an even cycle to be a 2-colorable cycle.