We present NICMOS imaging of broad band and molecular hydrogen emission in
Seyfert galaxies. In 6 of 10 Seyferts we detect resolved or extended emission
in the 1-0 S(1) 2.121 or 1-0 S(3) 1.9570 micron molecular hydrogen lines. We
did not detect emission in the most distant galaxy or in the 2 Seyfert 1
galaxies in our sample because of the luminosity of the nuclear point sources.
In NGC 5643, NGC 2110 and MKN 1066, molecular hydrogen emission is detected in
the extended narrow line region on scales of a few hundred pc from the nucleus.
Emission is coincident with [OIII] and H alpha+[NII] line emission. This
emission is also near dust lanes observed in the visible to near-infrared color
maps suggesting that a multiphase medium exists near the ionization cones and
that the morphology of the line emission is dependent on the density of the
ambient media. The high 1-0 S(1) or S(3) H2 to H alpha flux ratio suggests that
shock excitation of molecular hydrogen (rather than UV fluorescence) is the
dominant excitation process in these extended features. In NGC 2992 and NGC
3227 the molecular hydrogen emission is from 800 and 100 pc diameter `disks'
(respectively) which are not directly associated with [OIII] emission and are
near high levels of extinction (AV > 10). In NGC 4945 the molecular hydrogen
emission appears to be from the edge of a 100 pc superbubble. In these 3
galaxies the molecular gas could be excited by processes associated with local
star formation. We confirm previous spectroscopic studies finding that no
single mechanism is likely to be responsible for the molecular hydrogen
excitation in Seyfert galaxies.