The Narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxy 1H0707-495 is known to exhibit significant
X-ray spectral variations. Its X-ray energy spectrum is characterized by a
strong soft excess emission, an extremely deep iron K-edge structure at ~7 keV,
and a putative iron L-line/edge feature at ~1 keV. We have found that the
energy spectrum of 1H0707-495 in 0.5-10 keV is successfully explained by a
"variable double partial covering model" where the original continuum spectrum,
which is composed of the soft multi-color disk blackbody component and the hard
power-law component, is partially covered by two ionized absorption layers with
different ionization states and the same partial covering fraction. The
lower-ionized and thicker absorption layer primarily explains the iron K-edge
feature, and the higher-ionized and thinner absorption layer explains the
L-edge feature. We have discovered that the observed significant
intensity/spectral variation within a ~ day is mostly explained by only
variation of the partial covering fraction. In our model, the intrinsic
luminosity and spectral shape are hardly variable within a ~ day, while some
intrinsic variability above 3 keV is recognized. This is consistent with the
picture that the multi-color disk blackbody spectrum is almost invariable in
this timescale, and the hard power-law component is more variable. We propose
that the observed spectral variation of 1H0707-495 is caused by three
physically independent variations with different timescales; (1) intrinsic
luminosity variation over days, (2) variation of partial covering fraction at a
timescale of hours, and (3) small intrinsic hard component variation above 3
keV in a timescale of hours or less.