Similar to Euclidean geometry, graph theory is a science that studies figures
that consist of points and lines. The core of Euclidean geometry is the
parallel postulate, which provides the basis of the geometric invariant that
the sum of the angles in every triangle equals $\pi$ and Cramer's rule for
solving simultaneous linear equations. Since the counterpart of parallel
postulate in graph theory is not known, which could be the reason that two
similar problems in graph theory, namely the four color theorem (a topological
invariant) and the solvability of NP-complete problems (discrete simultaneous
equations), remain open to date. In this paper, based on the complex coloring
of cubic graphs, we propose the reducibility postulate of the Petersen
configuration to fill this gap. Comparing edge coloring with a system of linear
equations, we found that the postulate of reducibility in graph theory and the
parallel postulate in Euclidean geometry share some common characteristics of
the plane. First, they both provide solvability conditions on two equations in
the plane. Second, the two basic invariants of the plane, namely the chromatic
index of bridgeless cubic plane graphs and the sum of the angles in every
triangle, can be respectively deduced from them in a straightforward manner.
This reducibility postulation has been verified by more than one hundred
thousand instances of Peterson configurations generated by computer. Despite
that, we still don't have a logical proof of this assertion. Similar to that of
the parallel postulate, we tend to think that describing these natural laws by
even more elementary properties of the plane is inconceivable.