We present a Chandra observation of the central (r< 200kpc) region of the
cluster of galaxies 2A 0335+096, rich in interesting phenomena. On large scales
(r> 40kpc), the X-ray surface brightness is symmetric and slightly elliptical.
The cluster has a cool dense core; the radial temperature gradient varies with
position angle. The radial metallicity profile shows a pronounced central drop
and an off-center peak. Similarly to many clusters with dense cores, 2A
0335+096 hosts a cold front at r\approx 40kpc south of the center. The gas
pressure across the front is discontinuous by a factor A_P=1.6\pm 0.3,
indicating that the cool core is moving with respect to the ambient gas with a
Mach number M\approx 0.75\pm 0.2. The central dense region inside the cold
front shows an unusual X-ray morphology, which consists of a number of X-ray
blobs and/or filaments on scales \gtrsim 3kpc, along with two prominent X-ray
cavities. The X-ray blobs are not correlated with either the optical line
emission (H\alpha+[NII]), member galaxies or radio emission. Deprojected
temperature of the dense blobs is consistent with that of the less dense
ambient gas, so these gas phases do not appear to be in thermal pressure
equilibrium. An interesting possibility is a significant, unseen non-thermal
pressure component in the inter-blob gas, possibly arising from the activity of
the central AGN. We discuss two models for the origin of the gas blobs --
hydrodynamic instabilities caused by the observed motion of the gas core, or
``bubbling'' of the core caused by multiple outbursts of the central AGN.