We present deep, near-infrared images of the circumbinary disk surrounding
the pre-main-sequence binary star, GG Tau A, obtained with NICMOS aboard the
Hubble Space Telescope. The spatially resolved proto-planetary disk scatters
roughly 1.5% of the stellar flux, with a near-to-far side flux ratio of ~1.4,
independent of wavelength, and colors that are comparable to the central
source; all of these properties are significantly different from the earlier
ground-based observations. New Monte Carlo scattering simulations of the disk
emphasize that the general properties of the disk, such as disk flux, near side
to far side flux ratio and integrated colors, can be approximately reproduced
using ISM-like dust grains, without the presence of either circumstellar disks
or large dust grains, as had previously been suggested. A single parameter
phase function is fitted to the observed azimuthal variation in disk flux,
providing a lower limit on the median grain size of 0.23 micron. Our analysis,
in comparison to previous simulations, shows that the major limitation to the
study of grain growth in T Tauri disk systems through scattered light lies in
the uncertain ISM dust grain properties. Finally, we use the 9 year baseline of
astrometric measurements of the binary to solve the complete orbit, assuming
that the binary is coplanar with the circumbinary ring. We find that the
estimated 1 sigma range on disk inner edge to semi-major axis ratio, 3.2 <
Rin/a < 6.7, is larger than that estimated by previous SPH simulations of
binary-disk interactions.