In this final part of a 3-part paper we introduce the pair of "wings" of the
abstract PL-colored complexes $\mathcal{H}_{m}^\star$, described in the second
paper. The wings, via a weight enhanced Tutte's barycentric embedding of a
planar map, produce the unexpected reformutation of a 3-dimensionl problem into
a 2-dimensional one. The total number of edges in each one of the pair of final
wings is less than $8n-5$. Tutte's method is applied O(n) times to each one of
the 2 wings in the final pair to assure rectilinearity of the embeddings of the
planar maps, which include the final wings. A cone construction over the final
wings provides a PL-complex $\mathcal{H}_1^\diamond$, which contain the set of
0-simplices $\{a_1, a_2,...,a_f\} \cup \{b_1, b_2,...,b_g\}$ (as defined in the
second part of the article) properly fixed in $\mathbb{R}^3$. The other
0-simplices are obtained by bisections of segments linking previously defined
points. This implies that $\mathcal{H}_n$ is PL-embedded into $\mathbb{R}^3$.
We then conclude the surgery description of the 3-manifold induced by the gem
with its resolution by defining some disjoint cylinders contained in
$\mathcal{H}_{n}^\star$, directly from the hinges (dual of the twistors of the
resolution), in a 1-1 correspondence. The medial curves of the cylinders define
the link we seek. The framing of a medial curve is the linking number of the
boundary components of the corresponding cylinder. The analysis of the whole
proccess shows that the memory and time requirement to complete the algorithm
is O(n^2). Data for the Weber-Seifert 3-manifold, which answers Jeffrey Weeks's
question is given in the appendix. It consists of a link with 142 crossings but
it admits simplifications.