Chandra observations of the merging galaxy cluster A520 reveal a prominent
bow shock with M=2.1+0.4-0.3. This is only the second clear example of a
substantially supersonic merger shock front in clusters. Comparison of the
X-ray image with that of the previously known radio halo reveals a coincidence
of the leading edge of the halo with the bow shock, offering an interesting
experimental setup for determining the role of shocks in the radio halo
generation. The halo in A520 apparently consists of two spatially distinct
parts, the main turbulence-driven component and a cap-like forward structure
related to the shock, where the latter may provide pre-energized electrons for
subsequent turbulent re-acceleration. The radio edge may be caused by electron
acceleration by the shock. If so, the synchrotron spectrum should have a slope
of 1.2 right behind the edge with quick steepening further away from the edge.
Alternatively, if shocks are inefficient accelerators, the radio edge may be
explained by an increase in the magnetic field and density of pre-existing
relativistic electrons due to gas compression. In the latter model, there
should be radio emission in front of the shock with the same spectrum as that
behind it, but 10-20 times fainter. If future sensitive radio measurements do
not find such pre-shock emission, then the electrons are indeed accelerated (or
re-accelerated) by the shock, and one will be able to determine its
acceleration efficiency. We also propose a method to estimate the magnetic
field strength behind the shock, based on measuring the dependence of the radio
spectral slope upon the distance from the shock. In addition, the radio edge
provides a way to constrain the diffusion speed of the relativistic electrons.