We measure the UV-optical color dependence of galaxy clustering in the local
universe. Using the clean separation of the red and blue sequences made
possible by the NUV - r color-magnitude diagram, we segregate the galaxies into
red, blue and intermediate "green" classes. We explore the clustering as a
function of this segregation by removing the dependence on luminosity and by
excluding edge-on galaxies as a means of a non-model dependent veto of highly
extincted galaxies. We find that \xi (r_p, \pi) for both red and green galaxies
shows strong redshift space distortion on small scales -- the "finger-of-God"
effect, with green galaxies having a lower amplitude than is seen for the red
sequence, and the blue sequence showing almost no distortion. On large scales,
\xi (r_p, \pi) for all three samples show the effect of large-scale streaming
from coherent infall. On scales 1 Mpc/h < r_p < 10 Mpc/h, the projected
auto-correlation function w_p(r_p) for red and green galaxies fits a power-law
with slope \gamma ~ 1.93 and amplitude r_0 ~ 7.5 and 5.3, compared with \gamma
~ 1.75 and r_0 ~ 3.9 Mpc/h for blue sequence galaxies. Compared to the
clustering of a fiducial L* galaxy, the red, green, and blue have a relative
bias of 1.5, 1.1, and 0.9 respectively. The w_p(r_p) for blue galaxies display
an increase in convexity at ~ 1 Mpc/h, with an excess of large scale
clustering. Our results suggest that the majority of blue galaxies are likely
central galaxies in less massive halos, while red and green galaxies have
larger satellite fractions, and preferentially reside in virialized structures.
If blue sequence galaxies migrate to the red sequence via processes like
mergers or quenching that take them through the green valley, such a
transformation may be accompanied by a change in environment in addition to any
change in luminosity and color.