The Deep Extragalactic Evolutionary Probe (DEEP) is a series of spectroscopic
surveys of faint galaxies, targeted at the properties and clustering of
galaxies at redshifts z ~ 1. We present the redshift catalog of the DEEP 1 GSS
pilot phase of this project, a Keck/LRIS survey in the HST/WFPC2 Groth Survey
Strip. The redshift catalog and data, including reduced spectra, are publicly
available through a Web-accessible database. The catalog contains 658 secure
galaxy redshifts with a median z=0.65, and shows large-scale structure walls to
z = 1. We find a bimodal distribution in the galaxy color-magnitude diagram
which persists to z = 1. A similar color division has been seen locally by the
SDSS and to z ~ 1 by COMBO-17. For red galaxies, we find a reddening of only
0.11 mag from z ~ 0.8 to now, about half the color evolution measured by
COMBO-17. We measure structural properties of the galaxies from the HST
imaging, and find that the color division corresponds generally to a structural
division. Most red galaxies, ~ 75%, are centrally concentrated, with a red
bulge or spheroid, while blue galaxies usually have exponential profiles.
However, there are two subclasses of red galaxies that are not bulge-dominated:
edge-on disks and a second category which we term diffuse red galaxies
(DIFRGs). The distant edge-on disks are similar in appearance and frequency to
those at low redshift, but analogs of DIFRGs are rare among local red galaxies.
DIFRGs have significant emission lines, indicating that they are reddened
mainly by dust rather than age. The DIFRGs in our sample are all at z>0.64,
suggesting that DIFRGs are more prevalent at high redshifts; they may be
related to the dusty or irregular extremely red objects (EROs) beyond z>1.2
that have been found in deep K-selected surveys. (abridged)