We present the results of a wide-field photometric study of the globular
cluster (GC) system of the edge-on Sab spiral NGC7814. This is the first spiral
to be fully analyzed from our survey of the GC systems of a large sample of
galaxies beyond the Local Group. NGC7814 is of particular interest because a
previous study estimated that it has 500-1000 GCs, giving it the largest
specific frequency (S_N) known for a spiral. Understanding this galaxy's GC
system is important in terms of our understanding of the GC populations of
spirals in general and has implications for the formation of massive galaxies.
We observed the galaxy in BVR filters with the WIYN 3.5-m telescope, and used
image classification and three-color photometry to select GC candidates. We
also analyzed archival HST WFPC2 images of NGC7814, both to help quantify the
contamination level of the WIYN GC candidate list and to detect GCs in the
inner part of the galaxy halo. Combining HST data with high-quality
ground-based images allows us to trace the entire radial extent of this
galaxy's GC system and determine the total number of GCs directly through
observation. We find that rather than being an especially high-S_N spiral,
NGC7814 has <200 GCs and S_N ~ 1, making it comparable to the two most
well-studied spirals, the Milky Way and M31. We explore the implications of
these results for models of the formation of galaxies and their GC systems. The
initial results from our survey suggest that the GC systems of typical
ellipticals can be accounted for by the merger of two or more spirals, but that
for highly-luminous ellipticals, additional physical processes may be needed.