(Abridged) We investigate the effects of metallicity on the broad-band
photometric colors of late-type giants, and make a comparison of synthetic
colors with observed photometric properties of late-type giants over a wide
range of effective temperatures (T_eff=3500-4800 K) and gravities (log
g=0.0-2.5), at [M/H]=-1.0 and -2.0. The influence of metallicity on the
synthetic photometric colors is generally small at effective temperatures above
\~3800 K, but the effects grow larger at lower T_eff, due to the changing
efficiency of molecule formation which reduces molecular opacities at lower
[M/H]. To make a detailed comparison of the synthetic and observed photometric
colors of late type giants in the T_eff--color and color--color planes, we
derive a set of new T_eff--log g--color relations based on synthetic
photometric colors, at [M/H]=-0.5, -1.0, -1.5, and -2.0. While differences
between the new T_eff--color relations and those available from the literature
are typically well within ~100 K, effective temperatures predicted by the
scales based on synthetic colors tend to be slightly higher than those
resulting from the T_eff--color relations based on observations, with the
offsets up to ~100 K. This is clearly seen both at [M/H]=-1.0 and -2.0,
especially in the T_eff--(B-V) and T_eff--(V-K) planes. The consistency between
T_eff--log g--color scales based on synthetic colors calculated with different
stellar atmosphere codes is very good, with typical differences being well
within \Delta T_eff~70 K at [M/H]=-1.0 and \Delta T_eff~40 K at [M/H]=-2.0.