We present HST/WFPC2 images, in narrow-band filters containing the [OIII]
lambda5007 and Halpha+[NII] emission-lines and their adjacent continua, of a
sample of seven Seyfert 2 galaxies selected on the basis of possessing either
extended emission-line regions in ground-based observations or a hidden
broad-line region in polarized light. Six of the galaxies have also been
observed with the VLA to obtain radio maps with better quality and angular
resolution than those in the literature. We find detailed correspondences
between features in the radio and emission-line images that clearly indicate
strong interactions between the radio jets and the interstellar medium. Such
interactions play a major role in determining the morphology of the NLR, as the
radio jets sweep up and compress ambient gas, producing ordered structures with
enhanced surface brightness in line emission. In at least three galaxies,
namely Mrk 573, ESO 428-G14, and Mrk 34, and perhaps also NGC 7212, off-nuclear
radio lobes coincide with regions of low gaseous excitation (as measured by the
[OIII]/(Halpha+[NII]) ratio). In Mrk 573 and NGC 4388, there is a clear trend
for low brightness ionized gas to be of higher excitation. Those results may be
understood if radio lobes and regions of high emission-line surface brightness
are associated with high gas densities, reducing the ionization parameter.
[OIII]/(Halpha+[NII]) excitation maps reveal bi-polar structures which can be
interpreted as either the `ionization cones' expected in the unified scheme or
widening, self-excited gaseous outflows. Only NGC 4388 and Mrk 573 show a
clearly defined, straight-edged ionization cone.