We investigate the effects of pairing fluctuations in fermionic
superfluids/superconductors where pairing occurs among three species (colors)
of fermions. Such color superfluids/superconductors can be realized in
three-component atomic Fermi gases and in dense quark matter. The
superfluidity/superconductivity is characterized by a three-component order
parameter which denotes the pairing among the three colors of fermions. Due to
the SU$(3)$ symmetry of the Hamiltonian, one color does not participate
pairing. This branch of fermionic excitation is gapless in the naive BCS
mean-field description. In this paper, we adopt a pairing-fluctuation theory to
investigate the pairing fluctuation effects on the unpaired color in strongly
coupled atomic color superfluids and quark color superconductors. At low
temperature, a large pairing gap of the paired colors suppresses the pairing
fluctuation effects for the unpaired color, and the spectral density of the
unpaired color shows a single Fermi-liquid peak, which indicates the naive
mean-field picture remains valid. As the temperature is increased, the spectral
density of the unpaired color generally exhibits a three-peak structure: the
Fermi-liquid peak remains but get suppressed, and two pseudogap-like peaks
appears. At and above the superfluid transition temperature, the Fermi-liquid
peak disappears completely and the all three colors exhibits pseudogap-like
spectral density. The coexistence of Fermi liquid and pseudogap behavior is
generic for both atomic color superfluids and quark color superconductors.