We present the first non-LTE time-dependent radiative-transfer simulations of
supernovae (SNe) II-Plateau (II-P) covering both the photospheric and nebular
phases, from ~10 to >~1000d after the explosion, and based on 1.2B
piston-driven ejecta produced from a 15Msun and a 25Msun non-rotating
solar-metallicity star. The radial expansion of the gradually cooling
photosphere gives rise to a near-constant luminosity up to >~100d after
explosion. The photosphere remains in the outer 0.5Msun of the ejecta for up to
~50d after explosion. As the photosphere reaches the edge of the helium core,
the SN luminosity drops by an amount mitigated by the progenitor radius and the
56Ni mass. Synthetic light-curves exhibit a bell-shape morphology, evolving
faster for more compact progenitors, and with an earlier peak and narrower
width in bluer filters. UV and U-band fluxes are very sensitive to
line-blanketing, the metallicity, and the adopted model atoms. During the
recombination epoch synthetic spectra are dominated by HI and metal lines, and
are largely insensitive to the differing H/He/C/N/O composition of our two
progenitor stars. In contrast, synthetic nebular-phase spectra reveal a
broader/stronger OI doublet line in the higher-mass progenitor model,
reflecting the larger masses of oxygen and nickel that are ejected. Our
simulations overestimate the typical luminosity and the visual rise time of
standard SNe II-P, likely a consequence of our progenitor stars being too big
and/or too hydrogen rich. Comparison of our simulations with photospheric-phase
observations of SN1999em of the same color are satisfactory. Our neglect of
non-thermal processes leads to a fast disappearance of continuum radiation and
Balmer-line emission at the end of the plateau phase. With the exception of HI
lines, our nebular spectra show a striking similarity to contemporaneous
observations of SN1999em.