Low-mass X-ray binaries hosting neutron stars (NS) exhibit thermonuclear
(type-I) X-ray bursts, which are powered by unstable nuclear burning of helium
and/or hydrogen into heavier elements deep in the NS "ocean". In some cases the
burning ashes may rise from the burning depths up to the NS photosphere by
convection, leading to the appearance of the metal absorption edges in the
spectra, which then force the emergent X-ray burst spectra to shift toward
lower energies. These effects may have a substantial impact on the color
correction factor $f_c$ and the dilution factor $w$, the parameters of the
diluted blackbody model $F_E \approx w B_E(f_c T_{eff})$ that is commonly used
to describe the emergent spectra from NSs. The aim of this paper is to quantify
how much the metal enrichment can change these factors. We have developed a new
NS atmosphere modeling code, which has a few important improvements compared to
our previous code required by inclusion of the metals. The opacities and the
internal partition functions (used in the ionization fraction calculations) are
now taken into account for all atomic species. In addition, the code is now
parallelized to counter the increased computational load. We compute a detailed
grid of atmosphere models with different exotic chemical compositions that
mimic the presence of the burning ashes. From the emerging model spectra we
compute the color correction factors $f_c$ and the dilution factors $w$ that
can then be compared to the observations. We find that the metals may change
$f_c$ by up to about 40%, which is enough to explain the scatter seen in the
blackbody radius measurements. The presented models open up the possibility for
determining NS mass and radii more accurately, and may also act as a tool to
probe the nuclear burning mechanisms of X-ray bursts.