We present a series of statistical tests done to a sample of 29 Seyfert 1 and
59 Seyfert 2 galaxies selected from mostly isotropic properties, their far
infrared fluxes and warm infrared colors. Such selection criteria provide a
profound advantage over the criteria used by most investigators in the past,
such as ultraviolet excess. These tests were done using ground based high
resolution VLA A-configuration 3.6 cm radio and optical B and I imaging data.
  From the relative number of Seyfert 1's and Seyfert 2's we calculate that the
torus half opening angle is 48deg. We show that, as seen in previous papers,
there is a lack of edge-on Seyfert 1 galaxies, suggesting dust and gas along
the host galaxy disk probably play an important role in hiding some nuclei from
direct view. We find that there is no statistically significant difference in
the distribution of host galaxy morphological types and radio luminosities of
Seyfert 1's and Seyfert 2's, suggesting that previous results showing the
opposite may have been due to selection effects. The average extension of the
radio emission of Seyfert 1's is smaller than that of Seyfert 2's by a factor
of ~2-3, as predicted by the Unified Model. A search for galaxies around our
Seyferts allows us to put a lower and an upper limit on the possible number of
companions around these galaxies of 19% and 28%, respectively, with no
significant difference in the number of companion galaxies between Seyfert 1's
and Seyfert 2's. We also show that there is no preference for the radio jets to
be aligned closer to the host galaxy disk axis in late type Seyferts, unlike
results claimed by previous papers. These results, taken together, provide
strong support for a Unified Model in which type 2 Seyferts contain a torus
seen more edge-on than the torus in type 1 Seyferts.