AU Microscopii is a 12 Myr old M dwarf that harbors an optically thin,
edge-on disk of dust. The scattered light surface brightness falls with
projected distance b from the star as b^-a; within b = 43 AU, a = 1-2, while
outside 43 AU, a = 4-5. We devise a theory to explain this profile. At a
stellocentric distance r = r_BR = 43 AU, we posit a ring of parent bodies on
circular orbits: the "birth ring," wherein micron-sized grains are born from
the collisional attrition of parent bodies. The "inner disk" at r < r_BR
contains grains that migrate inward by corpuscular and Poynting-Robertson (CPR)
drag. The "outer disk" at r > r_BR comprises grains just large enough to remain
bound to the star, on orbits rendered highly eccentric by stellar wind and
radiation pressure. How the vertical optical depth tau scales with r depends on
the fraction of grains that migrate inward by CPR drag without suffering a
collision. If this fraction is large, the inner disk and birth ring share the
same optical depth, and tau scales as r^-5/2 in the outer disk. By contrast,
under collision-dominated conditions, the inner disk is empty, and tau scales
as r^-3/2 outside. These scaling relations, which we derive analytically and
confirm numerically, are robust against uncertainties in the grain size
distribution. By simultaneously modeling the surface brightness and thermal
spectrum, we break model degeneracies to establish that the AU Mic system is
collision-dominated, and that its narrow birth ring contains a lunar mass of
decimeter-sized bodies. The inner disk is devoid of micron-sized grains; the
surface brightness at b < 43 AU arises from light forward scattered by the
birth ring. Inside b = 43 AU, the disk's V-H color should not vary with b;
outside, the disk must become bluer as ever smaller grains are probed.