(Abridged) New optical colors of 58 objects in mean motion resonances with
Neptune show the various resonant populations have significantly different
color distributions. The 5:3 and 7:4 resonances have semi-major axes near the
middle of the main Kuiper Belt and both are dominated by ultra-red material.
The 5:3 and 7:4 resonances have statistically the same color distribution as
the low inclination "cold" classical belt. The inner 4:3 and distant 5:2
resonances have objects with mostly moderately red colors, similar to the
scattered and detached disk populations. The 2:1 resonance, which is near the
outer edge of the main Kuiper Belt, has a large range of colors with similar
numbers of moderately red and ultra-red objects at all inclinations. The inner
3:2 resonance, like the outer 2:1, has a large range of objects from neutral to
ultra-red. The Neptune Trojans (1:1 resonance) are only slightly red, similar
to the Jupiter Trojans. The inner 5:4 resonance only has four objects with
measured colors but shows equal numbers of ultra-red and moderately red
objects. The 9:5, 12:5, 7:3, 3:1 and 11:3 resonances do not have reliable color
distribution statistics, though it appears noteworthy that all three of the
measured 3:1 objects have only moderately red colors, similar to the 4:3 and
5:2 resonances. The different color distributions are likely a result from the
disruption of the primordial Kuiper Belt from the scattering and migration of
the giant planets. The few low inclination objects known in the outer 2:1 and
5:2 resonances are mostly only moderately red. This suggests if the 2:1 and 5:2
have a cold low inclination component, the objects likely had a significantly
different origin than the ultra-red dominated cold components of the cold
classical belt and 5:3 and 7:4 resonances.