We improve upper bounds on the chromatic number proven independently in
\cite{reedNote} and \cite{ingo}. Our main lemma gives a sufficient condition
for two paths in graph to be completely joined. Using this, we prove that if a
graph has an optimal coloring with more than $\frac{\omega}{2}$ singleton color
classes, then it satisfies $\chi \leq \frac{\omega + \Delta + 1}{2}$. It
follows that a graph satisfying $n - \Delta < \alpha + \frac{\omega - 1}{2}$
must also satisfy $\chi \leq \frac{\omega + \Delta + 1}{2}$, improving the
bounds in \cite{reedNote} and \cite{ingo}. We then give a simple argument
showing that if a graph satisfies $\chi > \frac{n + 3 - \alpha}{2}$, then it
also satisfies $\chi(G) \leq \left\lceil\frac{\omega(G) + \Delta(G) +
1}{2}\right\rceil$. From this it follows that a graph satisfying $n - \Delta <
\alpha + \omega$ also satisfies $\chi(G) \leq \left\lceil\frac{\omega(G) +
\Delta(G) + 1}{2}\right\rceil$ improving the bounds in \cite{reedNote} and
\cite{ingo} even further at the cost of a ceiling. In the next sections, we
generalize our main lemma to constrained colorings (e.g. r-bounded colorings).
We present a generalization of Reed's conjecture to r-bounded colorings and
prove the conjecture for graphs with maximal degree close to their order.
Finally, we outline some applications (in \cite{BorodinKostochka} and
\cite{ColoringWithDoublyCriticalEdge}) of the theory presented here to the
Borodin-Kostochka conjecture and coloring graphs containing a doubly critical
edge.