The complexity of chess matches has attracted broad interest since its
invention. This complexity and the availability of large number of recorded
matches make chess an ideal model systems for the study of population-level
learning of a complex system. We systematically investigate the move-by-move
dynamics of the white player's advantage from over seventy thousand high level
chess matches spanning over 150 years. We find that the average advantage of
the white player is positive and that it has been increasing over time.
Currently, the average advantage of the white player is ~0.17 pawns but it is
exponentially approaching a value of 0.23 pawns with a characteristic time
scale of 67 years. We also study the diffusion of the move dependence of the
white player's advantage and find that it is non-Gaussian, has long-ranged
anti-correlations and that after an initial period with no diffusion it becomes
super-diffusive. We find that the duration of the non-diffusive period,
corresponding to the opening stage of a match, is increasing in length and
exponentially approaching a value of 15.6 moves with a characteristic time
scale of 130 years. We interpret these two trends as a resulting from learning
of the features of the game. Additionally, we find that the exponent {\alpha}
characterizing the super-diffusive regime is increasing toward a value of 1.9,
close to the ballistic regime. We suggest that this trend is due to the
increased broadening of the range of abilities of chess players participating
in major tournaments.