We develop new hyperon equation of state (EoS) tables for core-collapse
supernova simulations and neutron stars. These EoS tables are based on a
density-dependent relativistic hadron field theory where baryon-baryon
interaction is mediated by mesons, using the parameter set DD2 from Typel et
al. (2010) for nucleons. Furthermore, light and heavy nuclei along with the
interacting nucleons are treated in the nuclear statistical equilibrium model
of Hempel and Schaffner-Bielich which includes excluded volume effects. Of all
possible hyperons, we consider only the contribution of $\Lambda$s. We have
developed two variants of hyperonic EoS tables: in the np$\Lambda \phi$ case
the repulsive hyperon-hyperon interaction mediated by the strange $\phi$ meson
is taken into account, and in the np$\Lambda$ case it is not. The EoS tables
for the two cases encompass wide range of density ($10^{-12}$ to $\sim$ 1
fm$^{-3}$), temperature (0.1 to 158.48 MeV), and proton fraction (0.01 to
0.60). The effects of $\Lambda$ hyperons on thermodynamic quantities such as
free energy per baryon, pressure, or entropy per baryon are investigated and
found to be significant at high densities. The cold, $\beta$-equilibrated EoS
(with the crust included self-consistently) results in a 2.1 M$_{\odot}$
maximum mass neutron star for the np$\Lambda \phi$ case, whereas that for the
np$\Lambda$ case is 1.95 M$_{\odot}$. The np$\Lambda \phi$ EoS represents the
first supernova EoS table involving hyperons that is directly compatible with
the recently measured 2 M$_{\odot}$ neutron stars.