Low mass X-ray transients (LMXRTs) hosting black hole candidates (BHCs)
display on average a factor of ~100 larger swing in the minimum (quiescent) to
maximum (outburst) X-ray luminosity than neutron stars (NSs), despite the fact
that the swing in the mass inflow rate is likely in the same range. Advection
dominated accretion flows (ADAFs) were proposed to interpret such a difference.
The residual optical/UV emission of quiescent LMXRTs, after subtraction of the
companion star spectrum, is produced by synchrotron radiation in the (latest
version) of ADAF and therefore is part of the ADAF's luminosity budget. We
demonstrate that, once the residual optical/UV emission is taken into account,
the bolometric luminosity swing of BHCs is consistent with that of NSs. We
explore here an alternative scenario to ADAFs in which very little mass
accretion onto the collapsed star takes place in the quiescence intervals. The
residual optical/UV emission of BHCs are expected to derive from the energy
released by the matter transferred from the companion star at radii comparable
to the circularisation radius. The quiescent X-ray luminosity originates either
from accretion onto the BH at very low rates and/or from coronal activity in
the companion star or in the outer disk. For comparably small mass inflow
rates, the NSs in these systems are likely in the radio pulsar regime. In the
interaction of the radio pulsar relativistic wind with matter transferred from
the companion star, a shock forms, the power law-like emission of which powers
both the harder X-ray emission and most of the residual optical/UV. The soft,
thermal-like X-ray component may arise from the cooling of the NS surface. This
scenario matches well both the X-ray and bolometric luminosity swing of LMXRTs.
(ABRIDGED).