The durations and average speeds of ultrashort optical pulses transmitted
through chiral sculptured thin films (STFs) were calculated using a
finite-difference time-domain algorithm. Chiral STFs are a class of
nanoengineered materials whose microstructure comprises parallel helicoidal
nanowires grown normal to a substrate. The nanowires are $\sim$10-300 nm in
diameter and $\sim1-10 \mu$m in length. Durations of transmitted pulses tend to
increase with decreasing (free-space) wavelength of the carrier plane wave,
while average speeds tend to increase with increasing wavelength. An increase
in nonlinearity, as manifested by an intensity-dependent refractive index in
the frequency domain, tends to increase durations of transmitted pulses and
decrease average speeds. The circular Bragg phenomenon exhibited by a chiral
STFs manifests itself in the frequency domain as high reflectivity for normally
incident carrier plane waves whose circular polarization state is matched to
the structural handedness of the film and whose wavelength falls in a range
known as the Bragg regime; films of the opposite structural handedness reflect
such plane waves little. This effect tends to distort the shapes of transmitted
pulses with respect to the incident pulses, and such shaping can cause sharp
changes in some measures of average speed with respect to carrier wavelength. A
local maximum in the variation of one measure of the pulse duration with
respect to wavelength is noted and attributed to the circular Bragg phenomenon.
Several of these effects are explained via frequency-domain arguments. The
presented results serve as a foundation for future theoretical and experimental
studies of optical pulse propagation through causal, nonlinear, nonhomogeneous,
and anisotropic materials.