Bulk piezoelectric micro-gyroscope is a miniaturized inertial sensor that
uses a differential thickness-shear bulk mode of a PZT block as the drive mode
of the gyroscope. In the paper, a second differential thickness-extensional
mode is identified for the sense mode and mode-matching is proposed for the
first time by proper design of the device geomtries. Through finite element
modal analysis, the frequencies of drive mode and sense mode are obtained when
the length of the PZT block varies from 4.8mm to 5.6mm and the width of the PZT
block varies from 3.0mm to 4.0mm. Using a fitting method, the empirical
formulae with an excellent fit are induced to predict the influence of the
length and the width of the PZT block on the drive and sense mode frequencies.
Based on these empirical formulae, the mode-matching equations are introduced.
The analysis results show that for a given thickness of the PZT block, the
effect of the width on the drive mode frequency is prominant. Conversly, the
effect of length on the sense mode frequency is dominant. The resonance
frequencies, kinetic energy ratios, scale factors of gyroscope are compared to
evaluate the mode quality. The results show that the kinetic energy in y-axis
direction of the drive mode and the kinetic energy in z-axis direction of the
sense mode increase with the thickness of the PZT block, and consequently the
scale factor of the gyroscope increases. For a constant thickness of the PZT
block the scale factor will decrease as the length increases. Through design
optimization we present a 20 times improvement in the scale factor of the
mode-matched gyroscope. Given the thickness of PZT block, the length and the
width will be determined by the mode-matching equations mentioned. Generally,
the analysis suggests that the resolution of the gyroscope improves by
increasing the thickness PZT block.