The purpose of this work is to propose a novel a posteriori finite volume
subcell limiter technique for the Discontinuous Galerkin finite element method
for nonlinear systems of hyperbolic conservation laws in multiple space
dimensions that works well for arbitrary high order of accuracy in space and
time and that does not destroy the natural subcell resolution properties of the
DG method. High order time discretization is achieved via a one-step ADER
approach that uses a local space-time discontinuous Galerkin predictor method.
Our new limiting strategy is based on the so-called MOOD paradigm, which
aposteriori verifies the validity of a discrete candidate solution against
physical and numerical detection criteria. Within the DG scheme on the main
grid, the discrete solution is represented by piecewise polynomials of degree
N. For those troubled cells that need limiting, our new limiter approach
recomputes the discrete solution by scattering the DG polynomials at the
previous time step onto a set of N_s=2N+1 finite volume subcells per space
dimension. A robust but accurate ADER-WENO finite volume scheme then updates
the subcell averages of the conservative variables within the detected troubled
cells. The choice of N_s=2N+1 subcells is optimal since it allows to match the
maximum admissible time step of the finite volume scheme on the subgrid with
the maximum admissible time step of the DG scheme on the main grid. We
illustrate the performance of the new scheme via the simulation of numerous
test cases in two and three space dimensions, using DG schemes of up to tenth
order of accuracy in space and time (N=9). The method is also able to run on
massively parallel large scale supercomputing infrastructure, which is shown
via one 3D test problem that uses 10 billion space-time degrees of freedom per
time step.