The Chandra X-ray Observatory has now discovered nearly 10,000 X-ray point
sources in the 2 x 0.8 degree region around the Galactic Center (Muno 2009).
The sources are likely to be a population of accreting binaries in the Galactic
Center, but little else is known of their nature. We obtained JHKs imaging of
the 17'x 17' region around Sgr A*, an area containing 4339 of these X-ray
sources, with the ISPI camera on the CTIO 4-m telescope. We cross-correlate the
Chandra and ISPI catalogs to find potential IR counterparts to the X-ray
sources. The extreme IR source crowding in the field means that it is not
possible to establish the authenticity of the matches with astrometry and
photometry alone. We find 2137 IR/X-ray astrometrically matched sources:
statistically we estimate that our catalog contains 289 +/- 13 true matches to
soft X-ray sources and 154 +/- 39 matches to hard X-ray sources. However, the
fraction of true counterparts to candidate counterparts for hard sources is
just 11 %, compared to 60 % for soft sources, making hard source NIR matches
particularly challenging for spectroscopic follow-up. We calculate a
color-magnitude diagram (CMD) for the matches to hard X-ray sources, and find
regions where significant numbers of the IR matches are real. We use their CMD
positions to place limits on the absolute Ks band magnitudes of the potential
NIR counterparts to hard X-ray sources. We find regions of the counterpart CMD
with 9 +/- 3 likely Wolf-Rayet/supergiant binaries (with 4 spectroscopically
confirmed in the literature) as well as 44 +/- 13 candidates that could consist
of either main sequence high mass X-ray binaries or red giants with an
accreting compact companion. (abridged)