We consider the distribution of the non-Gaussian signal induced by weak
lensing on the primary total intensity cosmic microwave background (CMB)
anisotropies. Our study focuses on the three point statistics exploiting an
harmonic analysis based on the CMB bispectrum. By considering the three
multipoles as independent variables, we reveal a complex structure of peaks and
valleys determined by the re-projection of the primordial acoustic oscillations
through the lensing mechanism. We study the dependence of this system on the
expansion rate at the epoch in which the weak lensing power injection is
relevant, probing the dark energy equation of state at redshift corresponding
to the equivalence with matter or higher ($w_\infty$). We evaluate the impact
of the bispectrum observable on the CMB capability of constraining the dark
energy dynamics. We perform a maximum likelihood analysis by varying the dark
energy abundance, the present equation of state $w_0$ and $w_\infty$. We show
that the projection degeneracy affecting a pure power spectrum analysis in
total intensity is broken if the bispectrum is taken into account. For a
Planck-like experiment, assuming nominal performance, no foregrounds or
systematics, and fixing all the parameters except $w_0$, $w_\infty$ and the
dark energy abundance, a percent and ten percent precision measure of $w_0$ and
$w_\infty$ is achievable from CMB data only. These results indicate that the
detection of the weak lensing signal by the forthcoming CMB probes may be
relevant to gain insight into the dark energy dynamics at the onset of cosmic
acceleration.