The high-frequency radio sky, like the gamma-ray sky surveyed by the Fermi
satellite, is dominated by flat spectrum radio quasars and BL Lac objects at
bright flux levels. To investigate the relationship between radio and gamma-ray
emission in extragalactic sources, we have cross-matched the Australia
Telescope 20 GHz survey catalog (AT20G) with the Fermi-LAT 1 year Point Source
Catalog (1FGL). The 6.0 sr of sky covered by both catalogs ({\delta} < 0\circ,
|b| > 1.\circ 5) contains 5890 AT20G radio sources and 604 1FGL gamma-ray
sources. The AT20G source positions are accurate to within ~1 arcsec and, after
excluding known Galactic sources, 43% of Fermi 1FGL sources have an AT20G
source within the 95% Fermi confidence ellipse. Monte Carlo tests imply that at
least 95% of these matches are genuine associations. Only five gamma-ray
sources (1% of the Fermi catalog) have more than one AT20G counterpart in the
Fermi error box. The AT20G matches also generally support the active galactic
nucleus (AGN) associations in the First LAT AGN Catalog. We find a trend of
increasing gamma-ray flux density with 20 GHz radio flux density. The Fermi
detection rate of AT20G sources is close to 100% for the brightest 20 GHz
sources, decreasing to 20% at 1 Jy, and to roughly 1% at 100 mJy. Eight of the
matched AT20G sources have no association listed in 1FGL and are presented here
as potential gamma-ray AGNs for the first time.We also identify an alternative
AGN counterpart to one 1FGL source. The percentage of Fermi sources with AT20G
detections decreases toward the Galactic plane, suggesting that the 1FGL
catalog contains at least 50 Galactic gamma-ray sources in the southern
hemisphere that are yet to be identified.