We raise on theoretical grounds the question of the physical relevance of
Israel matching conditions and their generalizations to higher codimensions,
the standard cornerstone of the braneworld and other membrane scenarios. Our
reasoning is twofold: First, the incapability of the conventional matching
conditions to accept the Nambu-Goto probe limit (even the geodesic limit of the
Israel matching conditions is not acceptable since being the geodesic equation
a kinematical fact it should be preserved for all gravitational theories or
defects, which is not the case for these conditions). Second, in our
D-dimensional spacetime (maybe D=4), classical defects of any possible
codimension should be compatible. These matching conditions fail to accept
codimension-2 and 3 defects for D=4 (which represents effectively the spacetime
at certain length and energy scales) and most probably fail to accept high
enough codimensional defects for any D since there is no high enough Lovelock
density to support them. Here, we propose alternative matching conditions which
seem to satisfy the previous criteria. Instead of varying the brane-bulk action
with respect to the bulk metric at the brane position, we vary with respect to
the brane embedding fields so that the gravitational back-reaction is included.
For a codimension-2 brane in 6-dim EGB gravity we prove its consistency for an
axially symmetric cosmological configuration. The cosmologies found have the
LFRW behaviour and extra correction terms. For a radiation brane one solution
avoids a cosmological singularity and undergoes accelerated expansion near the
minimum scale factor. In the presence of an induced gravity term, there
naturally appears in the theory the effective cosmological constant scale
lambda/(M_6^4 r_c^2), which for a brane tension lambda\sim M_6^4 (e.g. TeV^4)
and r_c \sim H_0^{-1} gives the observed value of the cosmological constant.