Binary black-hole systems with spins aligned or anti-aligned to the orbital
angular momentum provide the natural ground to start detailed studies of the
influence of strong-field spin effects on gravitational wave observations of
coalescing binaries. Furthermore, such systems may be the preferred end-state
of the inspiral of generic supermassive binary black-hole systems. In view of
this, we have computed the inspiral and merger of a large set of binary systems
of equal-mass black holes with spins parallel to the orbital angular momentum
but otherwise arbitrary. Our attention is particularly focused on the
gravitational-wave emission so as to quantify how much spin effects contribute
to the signal-to-noise ratio, to the horizon distances, and to the relative
event rates for the representative ranges in masses and detectors. As expected,
the signal-to-noise ratio increases with the projection of the total black hole
spin in the direction of the orbital momentum. We find that equal-spin binaries
with maximum spin aligned with the orbital angular momentum are more than
"three times as loud" as the corresponding binaries with anti-aligned spins,
thus corresponding to event rates up to 30 times larger. We also consider the
waveform mismatch between the different spinning configurations and find that,
within our numerical accuracy, binaries with opposite spins S_1=-S_2 cannot be
distinguished whereas binaries with spin S_1=S_2 have clearly distinct
gravitational-wave emissions. Finally, we derive a simple expression for the
energy radiated in gravitational waves and find that the binaries always have
efficiencies E_rad/M > 3.6%, which can become as large as E_rad/M = 10% for
maximally spinning binaries with spins aligned with the orbital angular
momentum.