We calculate the expected flux of gamma-ray and radio emission from the LMC
due to neutralino annihilation. Using rotation curve data to probe the density
profile and assuming a minimum disk, we describe the dark matter halo of the
LMC using models predicted by N-body simulations. We consider a range of
density profiles including the NFW profile, a modified NFW profile proposed by
Hayashi et al.(2003) to account for the effects of tidal stripping, and an
isothermal sphere with a core. We find that the gamma-ray flux expected from
these models may be detectable by GLAST for a significant part of the
neutralino parameter space. The prospects for existing and upcoming Atmospheric
Cherenkov Telescopes are less optimistic, as unrealistically long exposures are
required for detection. However, the effects of adiabatic compression due to
the baryonic component may improve the chances for detection by ACTs. The
maximum flux we predict is well below EGRET's measurements and thus EGRET does
not constrain the parameter space. The expected synchrotron emission generally
lies below the observed radio emission from the LMC in the frequency range of
19.7 to 8550 MHz. As long as <sigma v> <2x 10^-26 cm^3 s^-1 for a neutralino
mass of 50 GeV, the observed radio emission is not primarily due to neutralinos
and is consistent with the assumption that the main source is cosmic rays. We
find that the predicted fluxes, obtained by integrating over the entire LMC,
are not very strongly dependent on the inner slope of the halo profile, varying
by less than an order of magnitude for the range of profiles we considered.