As the Internet help us cross language and cultural border by providing
different types of translation tools, cross language plagiarism, also known as
translation plagiarism are bound to arise. Especially among the academic works,
such issue will definitely affect the student's works including the quality of
their assignments and paper works. In this paper, we propose a new approach in
detecting cross language plagiarism. Our web based cross language plagiarism
detection system is specially tuned to detect translation plagiarism by
implementing different techniques and tools to assist the detection process.
Google Translate API is used as our translation tool and Google Search API,
which is used in our information retrieval process. Our system is also
integrated with the fingerprint matching technique, which is a widely used
plagiarism detection technique. In general, our proposed system is started by
translating the input documents from Malay to English, followed by removal of
stop words and stemming words, identification of similar documents in corpus,
comparison of similar pattern and finally summary of the result. Three
least-frequent 4-grams fingerprint matching is used to implement the core
comparison phase during the plagiarism detection process. In K-gram fingerprint
matching technique, although any value of K can be considered, yet K = 4 was
stated as an ideal choice. This is because smaller values of K (i.e., K = 1, 2,
or 3), do not provide good discrimination between sentences. On the other hand,
the larger the values of K (i.e., K = 5, 6, 7...etc), the better discrimination
of words in one sentence from words in another.