In this paper we address the problem of matching sets of vectors embedded in
the same input space. We propose an approach which is motivated by canonical
correlation analysis (CCA), a statistical technique which has proven successful
in a wide variety of pattern recognition problems. Like CCA when applied to the
matching of sets, our extended canonical correlation analysis (E-CCA) aims to
extract the most similar modes of variability within two sets. Our first major
contribution is the formulation of a principled framework for robust inference
of such modes from data in the presence of uncertainty associated with noise
and sampling randomness. E-CCA retains the efficiency and closed form
computability of CCA, but unlike it, does not possess free parameters which
cannot be inferred directly from data (inherent data dimensionality, and the
number of canonical correlations used for set similarity computation). Our
second major contribution is to show that in contrast to CCA, E-CCA is readily
adapted to match sets in a discriminative learning scheme which we call
discriminative extended canonical correlation analysis (DE-CCA). Theoretical
contributions of this paper are followed by an empirical evaluation of its
premises on the task of face recognition from sets of rasterized appearance
images. The results demonstrate that our approach, E-CCA, already outperforms
both CCA and its quasi-discriminative counterpart constrained CCA (C-CCA), for
all values of their free parameters. An even greater improvement is achieved
with the discriminative variant, DE-CCA.