It is suggested that life originated in a three-step process referred to as
the jigsaw model. RNA, proteins, or similar organic molecules polymerized in a
dehydrated carbon-rich environment, on surfaces in a carbon-rich environment,
or in another environment where polymerization occurs. These polymers
subsequently entered an aqueous environment where they folded into compact
structures. It is argued that the folding of randomly generated polymers such
as RNA or proteins in water tends to partition the folded polymer into domains
with hydrophobic cores and matching shapes to minimize energy. In the aqueous
environment, hydrolysis or other reactions fragmented the compact structures
into two or more matching molecules, occasionally producing simple living
systems, also known as autocatalytic sets of molecules. It is argued that the
hydrolysis of folded polymers such as RNA or proteins is not random. The
hydrophobic cores of the domains are rarely bisected due to the energy
requirements in water. Hydrolysis preferentially fragments the folded polymers
into pieces with complementary structures and chemical affinities. Thus the
probability of producing a system of matched, interacting molecules in
prebiotic chemistry is much higher than usually estimated. Environments where
this process may occur are identified. For example, the jigsaw model suggests
life may have originated at a seep of carbonaceous fluids beneath the ocean.
The polymerization occurred beneath the sea floor. The folding and
fragmentation occurred in the ocean. The implications of this hypothesis for
seeking life or prebiotic chemistry in the Solar System are explored.