The half-filled Hubbard model on the Bethe lattice with coordination number
$z=3$ is studied using the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method.
Ground-state properties such as the energy $E$, average local magnetization
$<\hat S_z>$, its fluctuations $<\hat S_z^2 > - < \hat S_z>^2$ and various spin
correlation functions $<\hat S_z(i) \hat S_z(j) > - < S_z(i)> < S_z(j)>$ are
determined as a function of the Coulomb interaction strength $U/t$. The
calculated local magnetic moments $<\hat S_z(i)>$ increase monotonically with
increasing Coulomb repulsion $U/t$ forming an antiferromagnetic
spin-density-wave state which matches the two sublattices of the bipartite
Bethe lattice. At large $U/t$, $<\hat S_z(i)>$ is strongly reduced with respect
to the saturation value 1/2 due to exchange fluctuations between nearest
neighbors (NN) spins ($|< S_z(i)>|\simeq 0.35$ for $U/t\to +\infty$).
$<S_z(i)^2> - < S_z(i)>^2$ shows a maximum for $U/t=2.4$--2.9 which results
from the interplay between the usual increase of $<S_z(i)^2>$ with increasing
$U/t$ and the formation of important permanent moments $<S_z(i)>$ at large
$U/t$. NN sites show antiferromagnetic spin correlations which increase with
increasing Coulomb repulsion. In contrast next NN sites are very weakly
correlated over the whole range of $U/t$. The accuracy of the DMRG results is
discussed by comparison with tight-binding exact results, independent DMRG
calculations for the Heisenberg model and simple first-order perturbation
estimates.