In this paper, we propose a novel user-cell association approach for wireless
small cell networks that exploits previously unexplored context information
extracted from users' devices, i.e., user equipments (UEs). Beyond
characterizing precise quality of service (QoS) requirements that accurately
reflect the UEs' application usage, our proposed cell association approach
accounts for the devices' hardware type (e.g., smartphone, tablet, laptop).
This approach has the practical benefit of enabling the small cells to make
better informed cell association decisions that handle practical
device-specific QoS characteristics. We formulate the problem as a matching
game between small cell base stations (SBSs) and UEs. In this game, the SBSs
and UEs rank one another based on well-designed utility functions that capture
composite QoS requirements, extracted from the context features (i.e.,
application in use, hardware type). We show that the preferences used by the
nodes to rank one another are interdependent and influenced by the existing
network-wide matching. Due to this unique feature of the preferences, we show
that the proposed game can be classified as a many-to-one matching game with
externalities. To solve this game, we propose a distributed algorithm that
enables the players (i.e., UEs and SBSs) to self-organize into a stable
matching that guarantees the required applications' QoS. Simulation results
show that the proposed context-aware cell association scheme yields significant
gains, reaching up to 52% improvement compared to baseline context-unaware
approaches.