Luminet et al. (2003) suggested that WMAP data are better matched by a
Poincar\'e dodecahedral FLRW model of global geometry, rather than by an
infinite flat model. The analysis by Cornish et al. (2003) for angular radii
25-90 degrees failed to support this. Here, a matched circles analysis
specifically designed to detect dodecahedral patterns of matched circles is
performed over angular radii in the range 1-40 degrees on the one-year WMAP ILC
map, using a correlation statistic and an rms difference statistic. Extreme
value distributions of these statistics are calculated for left-handed and
right-handed 36 degree `screw motions' (Clifford translations) when matching
circles and for a zero (unphysical) rotation. The most correlated circles
appear for circle radii of 11\pm1 degrees, for the left-handed screw motion,
but not for the right-handed one, nor for the zero rotation. The favoured six
dodecahedral face centres in galactic coordinates are (l,b)= (252, +65), (51,
+51), (144,+38), (207,+10), (271,+3), (332,+25) and their opposites. The six
pairs of circles_independently_ each favour a circle angular radius of 11\pm1
degrees. Whether or not these six circle pairs centred on dodecahedral faces
match via a 36 degree rotation only due to unexpected statistical properties of
the WMAP ILC map, or whether they match due to global geometry, it is clear
that the WMAP ILC map has some unusual statistical properties which mimic a
potentially interesting cosmological signal. The software for reading the WMAP
data and for carrying out this analysis are released under the GNU General
Public License.