We study the influence of phase matching on interference minima in high
harmonic spectra. We concentrate on structures in atoms due to interference of
different angular momentum channels during recombination. We use the Cooper
minimum (CM) in argon at 47 eV as a marker in the harmonic spectrum. We measure
2d harmonic spectra in argon as a function of wavelength and angular
divergence. While we identify a clear CM in the spectrum when the target gas
jet is placed after the laser focus, we find that the appearance of the CM
varies with angular divergence and can even be completely washed out when the
gas jet is placed closer to the focus. We also show that the argon CM appears
at different wavelengths in harmonic and photo-absorption spectra measured
under conditions independent of any wavelength calibration. We model the
experiment with a simulation based on coupled solutions of the time-dependent
Schr\"odinger equation and the Maxwell wave equation, including both the single
atom response and macroscopic effects of propagation. The single atom
calculations confirm that the ground state of argon can be represented by its
field free $p$ symmetry, despite the strong laser field used in high harmonic
generation. Because of this, the CM structure in the harmonic spectrum can be
described as the interference of continuum $s$ and $d$ channels, whose relative
phase jumps by $\pi$ at the CM energy, resulting in a minimum shifted from the
photoionization result. We also show that the full calculations reproduce the
dependence of the CM on the macroscopic conditions. We calculate simple phase
matching factors as a function of harmonic order and explain our experimental
and theoretical observation in terms of the effect of phase matching on the
shape of the harmonic spectrum. Phase matching must be taken into account to
fully understand spectral features related to HHG spectroscopy.