The Einstein-Schrodinger theory is modified by adding a cosmological constant
contribution caused by zero-point fluctuations. This cosmological constant
which multiplies the symmetric metric is assumed to be nearly cancelled by
Schrodinger's ``bare'' cosmological constant which multiplies the nonsymmetric
fundamental tensor, such that the total ``physical'' cosmological constant
matches measurement. We first derive the field equations of the theory from a
Lagrangian density. We show that the divergence of the Einstein equations
vanishes using the Christoffel connection formed from the symmetric metric,
allowing additional fields to be included in the same manner as with ordinary
general relativity. We show that the field equations match the ordinary
electro-vac Einstein and Maxwell equations except for additional terms which
are $<10^{-16}$ of the usual terms for worst-case field strengths and
rates-of-change accessible to measurement. We also show that the theory avoids
ghosts in an unusual way. We show that the Einstein-Infeld-Hoffmann (EIH)
equations of motion for this theory match the equations of motion for
Einstein-Maxwell theory to Newtonian/Coulombian order, which proves the
existence of a Lorentz force. We derive an exact electric monopole solution,
and show that it matches the Reissner-Nordstrom solution except for additional
terms which are $\sim10^{-66}$ of the usual terms for worst-case radii
accessible to measurement. Finally, we show that the theory becomes exactly
electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell theory in the limit as the cosmological constant
from zero-point fluctuations goes to infinity.