We demonstrate an efficient nonequilibrium Green's function transport
calculation procedure based on the real-space finite-difference method. The
direct inversion of matrices for obtaining the self-energy terms of electrodes
is computationally demanding in the real-space method because the matrix
dimension corresponds to the number of grid points in the unit cell of
electrodes, which is much larger than that of sites in the tight-binding
approach. The procedure using the ratio matrices of the overbridging
boundary-matching technique [Phys. Rev. B {\bf 67}, 195315 (2003)], which is
related to the wave functions of a couple of grid planes in the matching
regions, greatly reduces the computational effort to calculate self-energy
terms without losing mathematical strictness. In addition, the present
procedure saves computational time to obtain Green's function of the
semi-infinite system required in the Landauer-B\"uttiker formula. Moreover, the
compact expression to relate Green's functions and scattering wave functions,
which provide a real-space picture of the scattering process, is introduced. An
example of the calculated results is given for the transport property of the BN
ring connected to (9,0) carbon nanotubes. The wave function matching at the
interface reveals that the rotational symmetry of wave functions with respect
to the tube axis plays an important role in electron transport. Since the
states coming from and going to electrodes show threefold rotational symmetry,
the states in the vicinity of the Fermi level, whose wave function exhibits
fivefold symmetry, do not contribute to the electron transport through the BN
ring.