We positionally correlate asteroids from existing catalogs with a sample of
$\about$18,000 asteroids detected by the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS,
Ivezi\'{c} {\em et al.} 2001). We find 2641 unique matches, which represent the
largest sample of asteroids with both accurate multi-color photometry and known
orbital parameters. The matched objects are predominantly bright, and
demonstrate that the SDSS photometric pipeline recovers \about90% of the known
asteroids in the observed region. For the recovered asteroids we find a large
offset (\about 0.4 mag) between Johnson V magnitudes derived from SDSS
photometry and the predicted catalog-based visual magnitudes. This offset
varies with the asteroid color from 0.34 mag for blue asteroids to 0.44 mag for
red asteroids, and is probably caused by the use of unfiltered CCD observations
in the majority of recent asteroid surveys. This systematic photometric error
leads to an overestimate of the number of asteroids brighter than a given
absolute magnitude limit by a factor of \about 1.7. The distribution of the
matched asteroids in orbital parameter space indicates strong color
segregation. We confirm that some families are dominated by a single asteroid
type (e.g. the Koronis family by red asteroids and the Themis family by blue
asteroids), while others appear to be a mixture of blue and red objects (e.g.
the Nysa/Polana family). Asteroids with the bluest \iz colors, which can be
associated with the Vesta family, show particularly striking localization in
orbital parameter space.