In many mobile visual analysis applications, compressed video is transmitted
over a communication network and analyzed by a server. Typical processing steps
performed at the server include keypoint detection, descriptor calculation, and
feature matching. Video compression has been shown to have an adverse effect on
feature matching performance. The negative impact of compression can be reduced
by using the keypoints extracted from uncompressed video for descriptor
calculation from the compressed video. Based on this observation, we propose to
signal the keypoints as side information to the server and to extract only the
descriptors from the compressed video. First, we introduce four different frame
types for keypoint encoding considering different types of changes in the video
content. These frame types represent new scenes, the same scene, a slowly
changing scene, and a fast moving scene, respectively, and are determined by
comparing features between successive video frames. Then, we propose Intra, P,
and Skip modes to encode the keypoints for different frame types. For example,
keypoints for new scenes are encoded with Intra mode, and keypoints for
unchanged scenes are skipped. As a result, the bitrate of the side information
for keypoint encoding is significantly reduced. Finally, we perform pairwise
matching and image retrieval to evaluate the performance of the proposed
approach using the Stanford mobile augmented reality dataset. Results show that
the proposed approach significantly improves the feature matching performance
at a given bitrate.