We present a method based on matched multifrequency filters for extracting
cluster catalogs from Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) surveys. We evaluate its
performance in terms of completeness, contamination rate and photometric
recovery for three representative types of SZ survey: a high resolution single
frequency radio survey (AMI), a high resolution ground-based multiband survey
(SPT), and the Planck all-sky survey. These surveys are not purely flux
limited, and they loose completeness significantly before their point-source
detection thresholds. Contamination remains relatively low at <5% (less than
30%) for a detection threshold set at S/N=5 (S/N=3). We identify photometric
recovery as an important source of catalog uncertainty: dispersion in recovered
flux from multiband surveys is larger than the intrinsic scatter in the Y-M
relation predicted from hydrodynamical simulations, while photometry in the
single frequency survey is seriously compromised by confusion with primary
cosmic microwave background anisotropy. The latter effect implies that
follow-up observations in other wavebands (e.g., 90 GHz, X-ray) of single
frequency surveys will be required. Cluster morphology can cause a bias in the
recovered Y-M relation, but has little effect on the scatter; the bias would be
removed during calibration of the relation. Point source confusion only
slightly decreases multiband survey completeness; single frequency survey
completeness could be significantly reduced by radio point source confusion,
but this remains highly uncertain because we do not know the radio counts at
the relevant flux levels.