From a Biomechanical point of view, Judo competition is an intriguing complex
nonlinear system, with many chaotic and fractals aspects, It is also the test
bed in which all coaching capabilities and athlete's performances are evaluated
and put to the test. Competition is the moment of truth of all conditioning
time, preparation and technical work, before developed, and it is also the
climax of the teaching point of view. Furthermore, it is the most important
source of technical assessment. Studying it is essential to the coaches because
they can obtain useful information for their coaching. Match Analysis could be
seen as the master key in all situation sports (dual or team) like Judo, to
help in useful way the difficult task of coach or best for National or Olympic
coaching equips. In this paper it is presented a short summary of the most
important methodological achievement in judo match analysis. It is also
presented, at light of the last technological improvement, the first
systematization toward new fields. On the basis of technological development,
Match Analysis could be a valuable source of four levels of information: 1st.
Athlete's Physiological data 2nd. Athlete's Technical data 3rd. Athlete's
Strategically data 4th. Adversary's Scouting These new interesting ways opened
by this powerful coaching help, are very useful for national team technical
management. In the last part of the paper, the analysis is focalized toward a,
till now, misused information: "Dromograms" (athletes' shifting paths) study as
useful source of fighting habit of athletes.