Motion estimation is one of the major problems in developing video coding
applications. Among all motion estimation approaches, Block-matching (BM)
algorithms are the most popular methods due to their effectiveness and
simplicity for both software and hardware implementations. A BM approach
assumes that the movement of pixels within a defined region of the current
frame can be modeled as a translation of pixels contained in the previous
frame. In this procedure, the motion vector is obtained by minimizing a certain
matching metric that is produced for the current frame over a determined search
window from the previous frame. Unfortunately, the evaluation of such matching
measurement is computationally expensive and represents the most consuming
operation in the BM process. Therefore, BM motion estimation can be viewed as
an optimization problem whose goal is to find the best-matching block within a
search space. The simplest available BM method is the Full Search Algorithm
(FSA) which finds the most accurate motion vector through an exhaustive
computation of all the elements of the search space. Recently, several fast BM
algorithms have been proposed to reduce the search positions by calculating
only a fixed subset of motion vectors despite lowering its accuracy. On the
other hand, the Harmony Search (HS) algorithm is a population-based
optimization method that is inspired by the music improvisation process in
which a musician searches for harmony and continues to polish the pitches to
obtain a better harmony. In this paper, a new BM algorithm that combines HS
with a fitness approximation model is proposed. The approach uses motion
vectors belonging to the search window as potential solutions. A fitness
function evaluates the matching quality of each motion vector candidate.