The problem of dual-hop transmission from a source to a destination via two
parallel full-duplex relays in block Rayleigh fading environment is
investigated. All nodes in the network are assumed to be oblivious to their
forward channel gains; however, they have perfect information about their
backward channel gains. The focus of this paper is on simple, efficient, and
practical relaying schemes to increase the expected-rate at the destination.
For this purpose, various combinations of relaying protocols and the broadcast
approach (multi-layer coding) are proposed. For the decode-forward (DF)
relaying, the maximum finite-layer expected-rate as well as two upper-bounds on
the continuous-layer expected-rate are obtained. The main feature of the
proposed DF scheme is that the layers being decoded at both relays are added
coherently at the destination although each relay has no information about the
number of layers being successfully decoded by the other relay. It is proved
that the optimal coding scheme is transmitting uncorrelated signals via the
relays. Next, the maximum expected-rate of ON/OFF based amplify-forward (AF)
relaying is analytically derived. For further performance improvement, a hybrid
decode-amplify-forward (DAF) relaying strategy, adopting the broadcast approach
at the source and relays, is proposed and its maximum throughput and maximum
finite-layer expected-rate are presented. Moreover, the maximum throughput and
maximum expected-rate in the compress-forward (CF) relaying adopting the
broadcast approach, using optimal quantizers and Wyner-Ziv compression at the
relays, are fully derived. All theoretical results are illustrated by numerical
simulations. As it turns out from the results, when the ratio of the relay
power to the source power is high, the CF relaying outperforms DAF (and hence
outperforms both DF and AF relaying); otherwise, DAF scheme is superior.