We present the redshift evolution of the high-mass end of the ^{0.55}i-band
Red Sequence Luminosity Function (RS LF) within the redshift range 0.52<z<0.65,
obtained from the DR10 BOSS CMASS sample, which comprises ~ 600,000 galaxies.
We have developed an analytical method based on an unbinned maximum likelihood
approach for deconvolving the observed CMASS distribution from photometric
errors and accounting for selection effects. This procedure requires modeling
the covariance matrix for the i-band magnitude, g-r color and r-i color using
Stripe 82 multi-epoch data. The error-deconvolved intrinsic RS distribution is
consistent with a single point in the color-color plane, which implies that the
great majority of the observed scatter is due to photometric errors. We
estimate that RS completeness is ~0.80-0.85 at z\geq0.52 in the CMASS sample,
dropping drastically below that redshift. Approximately 37% of all objects in
the CMASS sample belong intrinsically to the blue cloud. Within the redshift
and absolute magnitude range considered (^{0.55}M_i \lesssim -22), the
evolution of the RS LF is consistent with a Schechter Function of \Phi_* =
(6.693\pm0.042) x 10^{-4} Mpc^{-3} mag^{-1}, passively fading at a rate of
1.180\pm0.001 mag per unit redshift. This result implies an age of ~4-5 Gyr at
z=0.70, and a formation redshift of z=2-3, for the LRG population,
independently of the SPS model used. As for the intrinsic RS colors, FSPS
models within a grid covering a wide range of metallicities and dust contents
tend to predict a milder evolution as compared to the observations. The best
agreement seems to be found for solar-metallicity, dust-free FSPS models with
ages greater than ~5 Gyr, which would be consistent with our fading rate
results. The Maraston et al. (2009) passive LRG model provides an excellent
match to the color-redshift trend, implying an age of ~3-4 Gyr at z=0.70.
[ABRIDGED]