There is evidence from radio-loud quasars to suggest that the distribution of
the H$\beta$ broad emission line (BEL) gas is arranged in a predominantly
planar orientation, and this result may well also apply to radio-quiet quasars.
This would imply that the observed full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the
H$\beta$ BELs is dependent on the orientation of the line of sight to the gas.
If this view is correct then we propose that the FWHM can be used as a
surrogate, in large samples, to determine the line of sight to the H$\beta$
BELs in broad absorption line quasars (BALQSOs).... It is determined that there
is a statistically significant excess of narrow line profiles in the SDSS DR7
archival spectra of low ionization broad absorption line quasars (LoBALQSOs),
indicating that BAL gas flowing close to the equatorial plane does not commonly
occur in these sources. We also find that the data is not well represented by
random lines of sight to the BAL gas. Our best fit indicates two classes of
LoBALQSOs, the majority ($\approx 2/3$) are polar outflows, that are
responsible for the enhanced frequency of narrow line profiles, and the
remainder are equatorial outflows. We further motivated the line of sight
explanation of the narrow line excess in LoBALQSOs by considering the notion
that the skewed distribution of line profiles is driven by an elevated
Eddington ratio in BALQSOs. We constructed a variety of control samples
comprised of nonLoBALQSOs matched to a de-reddened LoBALQSO sample in redshift,
luminosity, black hole mass and Eddington ratio. It is demonstrated that the
excess of narrow profiles persists within the LoBALQSO sample relative to each
of the control samples with no reduction of the statistical significance. Thus,
we eliminate the possibility that the excess narrow lines seen in the LoBALQSOs
arise from an enhanced Eddington ratio.