We derive a Gaussian approximation result for the maximum of a sum of
high-dimensional random vectors. Specifically, we establish conditions under
which the distribution of the maximum is approximated by that of the maximum of
a sum of the Gaussian random vectors with the same covariance matrices as the
original vectors. This result applies when the dimension of random vectors
($p$) is large compared to the sample size ($n$); in fact, $p$ can be much
larger than $n$, without restricting correlations of the coordinates of these
vectors. We also show that the distribution of the maximum of a sum of the
random vectors with unknown covariance matrices can be consistently estimated
by the distribution of the maximum of a sum of the conditional Gaussian random
vectors obtained by multiplying the original vectors with i.i.d. Gaussian
multipliers. This is the Gaussian multiplier (or wild) bootstrap procedure.
Here too, $p$ can be large or even much larger than $n$. These distributional
approximations, either Gaussian or conditional Gaussian, yield a high-quality
approximation to the distribution of the original maximum, often with
approximation error decreasing polynomially in the sample size, and hence are
of interest in many applications. We demonstrate how our Gaussian
approximations and the multiplier bootstrap can be used for modern
high-dimensional estimation, multiple hypothesis testing, and adaptive
specification testing. All these results contain nonasymptotic bounds on
approximation errors.