The granulation pattern that we observe on the surface of the Sun is due to
hot plasma from the interior rising to the photosphere where it cools down, and
descends back into the interior at the edges of granules. This is the visible
manifestation of convection taking place in the outer part of the solar
convection zone. Because red giants have deeper convection zones and more
extended atmospheres than the Sun, we cannot a priori assume that granulation
in red giants is a scaled version of solar granulation. Until now, neither
observations nor 1D analytical convection models could put constraints on
granulation in red giants. However, thanks to asteroseismology, this study can
now be performed. The resulting parameters yield physical information about the
granulation. We analyze \sim1000 red giants that have been observed by Kepler
during 13 months. We fit the power spectra with Harvey-like profiles to
retrieve the characteristics of the granulation (time scale tau_gran and power
P_gran). We also introduce a new time scale, tau_eff, which takes into account
that different slopes are used in the Harvey functions. We search for a
correlation between these parameters and the global acoustic-mode parameter
(the position of maximum power, nu_max) as well as with stellar parameters
(mass, radius, surface gravity (log g) and effective temperature (T_eff)). We
show that tau_eff nu_max^{-0.89} and P_gran nu_max^{-1.90}, which is consistent
with the theoretical predictions. We find that the granulation time scales of
stars that belong to the red clump have similar values while the time scales of
stars in the red-giant branch are spread in a wider range. Finally, we show
that realistic 3D simulations of the surface convection in stars, spanning the
(T_eff, log g)-range of our sample of red giants, match the Kepler observations
well in terms of trends.