We investigate shock-wave solutions of the Einstein equations in the case
when the speed of propagation is equal to the speed of light. The work extends
the shock matching theory of Smoller and Temple, which characterizes solutions
of the Einstein equations when the spacetime metric is only Lipschitz
continuous across a hypersurface, to the lightlike case. After a brief
introduction to general relativity, we develop the extension of a shock
matching theory after introducing a previously known generalization of the
second fundamental form by Barrabes and Israel. In the development of the
theory we demonstrate that the matching of the generalized second fundamental
form alone is not a sufficient condition for conservation conditions to hold
across the interface. We then use this theory to construct a new exact solution
of the Einstein equations that can be interpreted as an outgoing spherical
shock wave that propagates at the speed of light. The solution is constructed
by matching a Friedman Robertson Walker (FRW) metric, which is a geometric
model for the universe, to a Tolman Oppenheimer Volkoff (TOV) metric, which
models a static isothermal spacetime. The sound speeds, on each side of the
shock, are constant and sub-luminous. Furthermore, the pressure and density are
smaller at the leading edge of the shock, which is consistent with the Lax
entropy condition in classical gas dynamics. However, the shock speed is
greater than all the characteristic speeds. The solution also yields a
surprising result in that the solution is not equal to the limit of previously
known subluminous solutions as they tend to the speed of light.