Many standard structural quantities, such as order parameters and correlation
functions, exist for common condensed matter systems, such as spherical and
rod-like particles. However, these structural quantities are often insufficient
for characterizing the unique and highly complex structures often encountered
in the emerging field of nano and microscale self-assembly, or other
disciplines involving complex structures such as computational biology.
Computer science algorithms known as "shape matching" methods pose a unique
solution to this problem by providing robust metrics for quantifying the
similarity between pairs of arbitrarily complex structures. This pairwise
matching operation, either implicitly or explicitly, lies at the heart of most
standard structural characterization schemes for particle systems. By
substituting more robust "shape descriptors" into these schemes we extend their
applicability to structures formed from more complex building blocks. Here, we
describe several structural characterization schemes and shape descriptors that
can be used to obtain various types of structural information about particle
systems. We demonstrate the application of shape matching algorithms to a
variety of example problems, for topics including local and global structure
identification and classification, automated phase diagram mapping, and the
construction of spatial and temporal correlation functions. The methods are
applicable to a wide range of systems, both simulated and experimental,
provided particle positions are known or can be accurately imaged.