We present an analysis of the broad-band spectra of 4U~1705--44 obtained with
{\it Suzaku} in 2006--2008 and by {\it BeppoSAX} in 2000. The source exhibits
two distinct states: the hard state shows emission from 1 to 150 keV, while the
soft state is mostly confined to be $<40$ keV. We model soft-state continuum
spectra with two thermal components, one of which is a multicolor accretion
disk and the other is a single-temperature blackbody to describe the boundary
layer, with additional weak Comptonization represented by either a simple power
law or the SIMPL model by Steiner et al. The hard-state continuum spectra are
modeled by a single-temperature blackbody for the boundary layer plus strong
Comptonization, modeled by a cutoff power law. While we are unable to draw firm
conclusions about the physical properties of the disk in the hard state, the
accretion disk in the soft state appears to approximately follow $L\propto
T^{3.2}$. The deviation from $L\propto T^4$, as expected from a constant inner
disk radius, might be caused by a luminosity-dependent spectral hardening
factor and/or real changes of the inner disk radius in some part of the soft
state. The boundary layer apparent emission area is roughly constant from the
hard to the soft states, with a value of about 1/11 of the neutron star
surface. The magnetic field on the surface of the NS in 4U~1705--44 is
estimated to be less than about $1.9\times 10^8$ G, assuming that the disk is
truncated by the ISCO or by the neutron star surface. Broad relativistic Fe
lines are detected in most spectra and are modeled with the diskline model. The
strength of the Fe lines is found to correlate well with the boundary layer
emission in the soft state. In the hard state, the Fe lines are probably due to
illumination of the accretion disk by the strong Comptonization emission.