Given a directed graph G and an integer k >= 1, a
k-transitive-closure-spanner (k-TCspanner) of G is a directed graph H that has
(1) the same transitive-closure as G and (2) diameter at most k. In some
applications, the shortcut paths added to the graph in order to obtain small
diameter can use Steiner vertices, that is, vertices not in the original graph
G. The resulting spanner is called a Steiner transitive-closure spanner
(Steiner TC-spanner).
  Motivated by applications to property reconstruction and access control
hierarchies, we concentrate on Steiner TC-spanners of directed acyclic graphs
or, equivalently, partially ordered sets. In these applications, the goal is to
find a sparsest Steiner k-TC-spanner of a poset G for a given k and G. The
focus of this paper is the relationship between the dimension of a poset and
the size of its sparsest Steiner TCspanner. The dimension of a poset G is the
smallest d such that G can be embedded into a d-dimensional directed hypergrid
via an order-preserving embedding.
  We present a nearly tight lower bound on the size of Steiner 2-TC-spanners of
d-dimensional directed hypergrids. It implies better lower bounds on the
complexity of local reconstructors of monotone functions and functions with low
Lipschitz constant. The proof of the lower bound constructs a dual solution to
a linear programming relaxation of the Steiner 2-TC-spanner problem. We also
show that one can efficiently construct a Steiner 2-TC-spanner, of size
matching the lower bound, for any low-dimensional poset. Finally, we present a
lower bound on the size of Steiner k-TC-spanners of d-dimensional posets that
shows that the best-known construction, due to De Santis et al., cannot be
improved significantly.