We study the optical properties of a single, semiconducting single-walled
carbon nanotube (CNT) that is partially suspended across a trench and partially
supported by a SiO2-substrate. By tuning the laser excitation energy across the
E33 excitonic resonance of the suspended CNT segment, the scattering
intensities of the principal Raman transitions, the radial breathing mode
(RBM), the G-mode and the D-mode show strong resonance enhancement of up to
three orders of magnitude. In the supported part of the CNT, despite a loss of
Raman scattering intensity of up to two orders of magnitude, we recover the E33
excitonic resonance suffering a substrate-induced red shift of 50 meV. The peak
intensity ratio between G-band and D-band is highly sensitive to the presence
of the substrate and varies by one order of magnitude, demonstrating the much
higher defect density in the supported CNT segments. By comparing the E33
resonance spectra measured by Raman excitation spectroscopy and
photoluminescence (PL) excitation spectroscopy in the suspended CNT segment, we
observe that the peak energy in the PL excitation spectrum is red-shifted by 40
meV. This shift is associated with the energy difference between the localized
exciton dominating the PL excitation spectrum and the free exciton giving rise
to the Raman excitation spectrum. High-resolution Raman spectra reveal
substrate-induced symmetry breaking, as evidenced by the appearance of
additional peaks in the strongly broadened Raman G band. Laser-induced line
shifts of RBM and G band measured on the suspended CNT segment are both linear
as a function of the laser excitation power. Stokes/anti-Stokes measurements,
however, reveal an increase of the G phonon population while the RBM phonon
population is rather independent of the laser excitation power.