With the ability to watch Wikipedia and Wikidata edits in realtime, the
online encyclopedia and the knowledge base have become increasingly used
targets of research for the detection of breaking news events. In this paper,
we present a case study of the 2014 Winter Olympics, where we tell the story of
breaking news events in the context of the Olympics with the help of social
multimedia stemming from multiple social network sites. Therefore, we have
extended the application Wikipedia Live Monitor-a tool for the detection of
breaking news events-with the capability of automatically creating media
galleries that illustrate events. Athletes winning an Olympic competition, a
new country leading the medal table, or simply the Olympics themselves are all
events newsworthy enough for people to concurrently edit Wikipedia and
Wikidata-around the world in many languages. The Olympics being an event of
common interest, an even bigger majority of people share the event in a
multitude of languages on global social network sites, which makes the event an
ideal subject of study. With this work, we connect the world of Wikipedia and
Wikidata with the world of social network sites, in order to convey the spirit
of the 2014 Winter Olympics, to tell the story of victory and defeat, and
always following the Olympic motto Citius, Altius, Fortius. The proposed
system-generalized for all sort of breaking news stories-has been put in
production in form of the Twitter bot @mediagalleries, available and archived
at https://twitter.com/mediagalleries.