We perform a systematic analysis of neutron star radius constraints from five
quiescent low-mass X-ray binaries and examine how they depend on measurements
of their distances and amounts of intervening absorbing material, as well as
their assumed atmospheric compositions. We construct and calibrate to published
results a semi-analytic model of the neutron star atmosphere which approximates
these effects for the predicted masses and radii. Starting from mass and radius
probability distributions established from hydrogen-atmosphere spectral fits of
quiescent sources, we apply this model to compute alternate sets of probability
distributions. We perform Bayesian analyses to estimate neutron star
mass-radius curves and equation of state (EOS) parameters that best-fit each
set of distributions, assuming the existence of a known low-density neutron
star crustal EOS, a simple model for the high-density EOS, causality, and the
observation that the neutron star maximum mass exceeds $2~M_\odot$. We compute
the posterior probabilities for each set of distance measurements and
assumptions about absorption and composition. We find that, within the context
of our assumptions and our parameterized EOS models, some absorption models are
disfavored. We find that neutron stars composed of hadrons are favored relative
to those with exotic matter with strong phase transitions. In addition, models
in which all five stars have hydrogen atmospheres are found to be weakly
disfavored. Our most likely models predict neutron star radii that are
consistent with current experimental results concerning the nature of the
nucleon-nucleon interaction near the nuclear saturation density.