For atmospheric sulfuric acid (SA) concentrations the presence of
dimethylamine (DMA) at mixing ratios of several parts per trillion by volume
can explain observed boundary layer new particle formation rates. However, the
concentration and molecular composition of the neutral (uncharged) clusters
have not been reported so far due to the lack of suitable instrumentation. Here
we report on experiments from the Cosmics Leaving Outdoor Droplets chamber at
the European Organization for Nuclear Research revealing the formation of
neutral particles containing up to 14 SA and 16 DMA molecules, corresponding to
a mobility diameter of about 2 nm, under atmospherically relevant conditions.
These measurements bridge the gap between the molecular and particle
perspectives of nucleation, revealing the fundamental processes involved in
particle formation and growth. The neutral clusters are found to form at or
close to the kinetic limit where particle formation is limited only by the
collision rate of SA molecules. Even though the neutral particles are stable
against evaporation from the SA dimer onward, the formation rates of particles
at 1.7-nm size, which contain about 10 SA molecules, are up to 4 orders of
magnitude smaller comparedwith those of the dimer due to coagulation and wall
loss of particles before they reach 1.7 nm in diameter. This demonstrates that
neither the atmospheric particle formation rate nor its dependence on SA can
simply be interpreted in terms of cluster evaporation or the molecular
composition of a critical nucleus.