We present an optical, X-ray, and radio analysis of the starburst in the
Abell 1835 cluster's central cD galaxy. The dense gas surrounding the galaxy is
radiating X-rays with a luminosity of ~1E45 erg/s consistent with a cooling
rate of ~1000-2000 solar masses per year. However, Chandra and XMM-Newton
observations find less than 200 solar masses per year of gas cooling below ~2
keV, a level that is consistent with the cD's current star formation rate of
100-180 solar masses per year. One or more heating agents (feedback) must then
be replenishing the remaining radiative losses. The heat fluxes from supernova
explosions and thermal conduction alone are unable to do so. However, a pair of
X-ray cavities from an AGN outburst has deposited ~1.7E60 erg into the
surrounding gas over the past 40 Myr. The corresponding jet power 1.4E45
erg/sec is enough to offset most of the radiative losses from the cooling gas.
The jet power exceeds the radio synchrotron power by ~4000 times, making this
one of the most radiatively inefficient radio sources known. The large jet
power implies that the cD's supermassive black hole accreted at a mean rate of
 ~0.3 solar masses per year over the last 40 Myr or so, which is a small
fraction of the Eddington accretion rate for a 10E9 solar mass black hole. The
ratio of the bulge growth rate through star formation and the black hole growth
rate through accretion is consistent with the slope of the (Magorrian)
relationship between bulge and central black hole mass in nearby quiescent
galaxies. The consistency between net cooling, heating (feedback), and the
cooling sink (star formation) in this system resolves the primary objection to
traditional cooling flow models. (abridged)