Observationally inferred superburst ignition depths are shallower than models
predict. We address this discrepancy by reexamining the superburst trigger
mechanism. We first explore the hypothesis of Kuulkers et al. that exothermic
electron captures trigger superbursts. We find that all electron capture
reactions are thermally stable in accreting neutron star oceans and thus are
not a viable trigger mechanism. Fusion reactions other than 12C + 12C are
infeasible as well since the possible reactants either deplete at much
shallower depths or have prohibitively large Coulomb barriers. Thus we confirm
the proposal of Cumming & Bildsten and Strohmayer & Brown that 12C + 12C
triggers superbursts. We then examine the 12C + 12C fusion rate. The reaction
cross-section is experimentally unknown at astrophysically relevant energies,
but resonances exist in the 12C + 12C system throughout the entire measured
energy range. Thus it is likely, and in fact has been predicted, that a
resonance exists near the Gamow peak energy ~ 1.5 MeV. For such a hypothetical
1.5 MeV resonance, we derive both a fiducial value and upper limit to the
resonance strength and find that such a resonance could decrease the
theoretically predicted superburst ignition depth by up to a factor of 4; in
this case, observationally inferred superburst ignition depths would accord
with model predictions for a range of plausible neutron star parameters. Said
differently, such a resonance would decrease the temperature required for
unstable 12C ignition at a column depth 10^12 g/cm^2 from 6 x 10^8 K to 5 x
10^8 K. Determining the existence of a strong resonance in the Gamow window
requires measurements of the 12C + 12C cross-section down to a center-of-mass
energy near 1.5 MeV, which is within reach of the proposed DUSEL facility.