The minimal cooling paradigm for neutron star cooling assumes that enhanced
cooling due to neutrino emission from any direct Urca process, due either to
nucleons or to exotica such as hyperons, Bose condensates, or deconfined
quarks, does not occur. This scenario was developed to replace and extend the
so-called standard cooling scenario to include neutrino emission from the
Cooper pair breaking and formation processes that occur near the critical
temperature for superfluid/superconductor pairing.
  Recently, it has been found that Cooper-pair neutrino emission from the
vector channel is suppressed by a large factor compared to the original
estimates that violated vector current conservation. We show that Cooper-pair
neutrino emission remains, nevertheless, an efficient cooling mechanism through
the axial channel. As a result, the elimination of neutrino emission from
Cooper-paired nucleons through the vector channel has only minor effects on the
long-term cooling of neutron stars within the minimal cooling paradigm. We
further quantify precisely the effect of the size of the neutron 3P2 gap and
demonstrate that consistency between observations and the minimal cooling
paradigm requires that the critical temperature T_c for this gap covers a range
of values between T_c^min < 0.2 x 10^9 K up to T_c^max > 0.5 \times 10^9 K in
the core of the star. In addition, it is required that young neutron stars have
heterogenous envelope compositions: some must have light-element compositions
and others must have heavy-element compositions. Unless these two conditions
are fulfilled, about half of the observed young cooling neutron stars are
inconsistent with the minimal cooling paradigm and provide evidence for the
existence of enhanced cooling.