The total evidence approach to divergence-time dating uses molecular and
morphological data of extant and fossil species to infer phylogenetic
relationships, species divergence times, and macroevolutionary parameters in a
single coherent framework. Current model-based implementations of this approach
lack an appropriate model for the tree describing the diversification and
fossilisation process which can result in erroneous conclusions. We address
this shortcoming by providing a total evidence method implemented in a Bayesian
framework. This approach uses a mechanistic tree prior to describe the
underlying diversification process that generated the tree of extant and fossil
taxa. Previous attempts to apply the total-evidence approach have used tree
priors that do not account for the possibility that fossil samples may be
direct ancestors of other samples. The fossilised birth-death process
explicitly models the diversification, fossilisation, and sampling processes
and naturally allows for sampled ancestors. This model was recently applied to
estimate divergence times based on molecular data and fossil occurrence dates.
We incorporate the fossilised birth-death model and a model of morphological
trait evolution into a Bayesian total-evidence approach to dating species
phylogenies. We apply this method to extant and fossil penguins and show that
the modern penguins radiated much more recently than has been previously
estimated, with the basal divergence in the crown clade occurring at~12.5 Ma
and most splits leading to extant species occurring in the last 2 million
years. Our results demonstrate that including stem-fossil diversity can greatly
improve the estimates of the divergence times of crown taxa. The method is
available in BEAST2 (v2.3) software www.beast2.org with packages SA (v1.1.3)
and morph-models (v1.0.1) installed.