Shift radix systems form a collection of dynamical systems depending on a
parameter $\mathbf{r}$ which varies in the $d$-dimensional real vector space.
They generalize well-known numeration systems such as beta-expansions,
expansions with respect to rational bases, and canonical number systems.
Beta-numeration and canonical number systems are known to be intimately related
to fractal shapes, such as the classical Rauzy fractal and the twin dragon.
These fractals turned out to be important for studying properties of expansions
in several settings. In the present paper we associate a collection of fractal
tiles with shift radix systems. We show that for certain classes of parameters
$\mathbf{r}$ these tiles coincide with affine copies of the well-known tiles
associated with beta-expansions and canonical number systems. On the other
hand, these tiles provide natural families of tiles for beta-expansions with
(non-unit) Pisot numbers as well as canonical number systems with (non-monic)
expanding polynomials. We also prove basic properties for tiles associated with
shift radix systems. Indeed, we prove that under some algebraic conditions on
the parameter $\mathbf{r}$ of the shift radix system, these tiles provide
multiple tilings and even tilings of the $d$-dimensional real vector space.
These tilings turn out to have a more complicated structure than the tilings
arising from the known number systems mentioned above. Such a tiling may
consist of tiles having infinitely many different shapes. Moreover, the tiles
need not be self-affine (or graph directed self-affine).