We confirm the orbital period of WX Cen (WR 48c) determined by Diaz & Steiner
(1995) and refined its value to P = 0.416 961 5 d. The light curve of this
object has an amplitude of 0.32 magnitudes and has a V-shaped narrow minimum,
similar to the ones seen in V Sge, V617 Sgr and in Compact Binary Supersoft
Sources - CBSS. The He II Pickering series decrement shows that the system has
significant amount of hydrogen. The He II 4686 emission lines became weaker
between the 1991 and 2000/2002 observations, indicating distinct levels of
activity. The Balmer lines show variable features with V = -2900 km/s in
absorption and with V = +/- 3500 km/s in emission. These highly variable events
remind the satellites in emission of CBSS. We estimate the color excess as
E(B-V)=0.63. Given the distance-color excess relation in the direction of WX
Cen, this implies a distance of 2.8 kpc. Interstellar absorption of the Na I D
lines show components at -4.1 km/s, which corresponds to the velocity of the
Coalsack, and three other components a -23.9, -32.0 and -39.0 km/s. These
components are also seen with similar strengths in field stars that have
distances between 1.8 and 2.7 kpc. The intrinsic color of WX Cen is (B-V)0=-0.2
and the absolute magnitude, Mv = -0.5. Extended red wings in the strong
emission lines are seen. A possible explanation is that the system has a
spill-over stream similar to what is seen in V617 Sgr. We predict that when
observed in opposite orbital phase, blue wings would be observed. The velocity
of the satellite-like feature is consistent with the idea that the central star
is a white dwarf with a mass of M ~ 0.9 Msun. With the high accretion rate
under consideration, the star may become a SN Ia in a time-scale of 5 X 10^6
years.