Most massive galaxies show emission lines that can be characterized as
LINERs. To what extent this emission is related to AGNs or to stellar processes
is still an open question. In this paper, we analysed a sample of such galaxies
to study the central region in terms of nuclear and circumnuclear emission
lines, as well as the stellar component properties. For this reason, we
selected 10 massive ($\sigma$ > 200 km/s) nearby (d < 31 Mpc) galaxies and
observed them with the IFU/GMOS (integral field unit/Gemini Multi-Object
Spectrograph) spectrograph on the Gemini South Telescope. The data were
analysed with principal component analysis (PCA) Tomography to assess the main
properties of the objects. Two spectral regions were analysed: a yellow region
(5100-5800 A), adequate to show the properties of the stellar component, and a
red region (6250-6800 A), adequate to analyse the gaseous component. We found
that all objects previously known to present emission lines have a central
AGN-type emitting source. They also show gaseous and stellar kinematics typical
of discs. Such discs may be co-aligned (NGC 1380 and ESO 208 G-21), in
counter-rotation (IC 1459 and NGC 7097) or misaligned (IC 5181 and NGC 4546).
We also found one object with a gaseous disc but no stellar disc (NGC 2663),
one with a stellar disc but no gaseous disc (NGC 1404), one with neither
stellar nor gaseous disc (NGC 1399) and one with probably ionization cones (NGC
3136). PCA Tomography is an efficient method for detecting both the central AGN
and gaseous and stellar discs. In the two cases (NGC 1399 and NGC 1404) in
which no lines were previously reported, we found no evidence of either nuclear
or circumnuclear emission, using PCA Tomography only.