Path-velocity decomposition is an intuitive yet powerful approach to address
the complexity of kinodynamic motion planning. The difficult trajectory
planning problem is solved in two separate, simpler, steps: first, find a path
in the configuration space that satisfies the geometric constraints (path
planning), and second, find a time-parameterization of that path satisfying the
kinodynamic constraints. A fundamental requirement is that the path found in
the first step should be time-parameterizable. Most existing works fulfill this
requirement by enforcing quasi-static constraints in the path planning step,
resulting in an important loss in completeness. We propose a method that
enables path-velocity decomposition to discover truly dynamic motions, i.e.
motions that are not quasi-statically executable. At the heart of the proposed
method is a new algorithm -- Admissible Velocity Propagation -- which, given a
path and an interval of reachable velocities at the beginning of that path,
computes exactly and efficiently the interval of all the velocities the system
can reach after traversing the path while respecting the system kinodynamic
constraints. Combining this algorithm with usual sampling-based planners then
gives rise to a family of new trajectory planners that can appropriately handle
kinodynamic constraints while retaining the advantages associated with
path-velocity decomposition. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed
method on some difficult kinodynamic planning problems, where, in particular,
quasi-static methods are guaranteed to fail.