Continuous-time random walks (CTRWs) on discrete state spaces, ranging from
regular lattices to complex networks, are ubiquitous across physics, chemistry,
and biology. Models with coarse-grained states, for example those in Markov
models of molecular kinetics, or spatial disorder can give rise to memory and
non-exponential distributions of waiting times and first-passage statistics.
However, existing methods for analyzing CTRWs on complex energy landscapes do
not address these effects. We therefore use statistical mechanics of the
nonequilibrium path ensemble to characterize first-passage CTRWs on networks
with arbitrary connectivity, energy landscape, and waiting time distributions.
Our approach is valuable for calculating higher moments (beyond the mean) of
path statistics such as path length, time, and action, as well as any
conservative or nonconservative force along a path. For homogeneous networks we
derive exact relations between these moments, quantifying the validity of
approximating a continuous-time process (path times) with its discrete-time
projection (path lengths). For more general models we obtain recursion
relations, reminiscent of transfer matrix and exact enumeration techniques, to
calculate path statistics numerically in an efficient way. We have implemented
our recursive algorithm in PathMAN, a Python script that users can easily apply
to their model of choice. We demonstrate the algorithm on a few representative
examples to show the importance of non-exponential distributions, memory, and
coarse-graining in CTRWs.