In this paper we first show that the necessary condition introduced in our
previous paper is also a sufficient condition for a path to be a geodesic in
the group $\Ham^c(M)$ of compactly supported Hamiltonian symplectomorphisms.
This applies with no restriction on $M$. We then discuss conditions which
guarantee that such a path minimizes the Hofer length. Our argument relies on a
general geometric construction (the gluing of monodromies) and on an extension
of Gromov's non-squeezing theorem both to more general manifolds and to more
general capacities. The manifolds we consider are quasi-cylinders, that is
spaces homeomorphic to $M \times D^2$ which are symplectically ruled over
$D^2$. When we work with the usual capacity (derived from embedded balls), we
can prove the existence of paths which minimize the length among all homotopic
paths, provided that $M$ is semi-monotone. (This restriction occurs because of
the well-known difficulty with the theory of $J$-holomorphic curves in
arbitrary $M$.) However, we can only prove the existence of length-minimizing
paths (i.e. paths which minimize length amongst {\it all} paths, not only the
homotopic ones) under even more restrictive conditions on $M$, for example when
$M$ is exact and convex or of dimension $2$. The new difficulty is caused by
the possibility that there are non-trivial and very short loops in $\Ham^c(M)$.
When such length-minimizing paths do exist, we can extend the
Bialy--Polterovich calculation of the Hofer norm on a neighbourhood of the
identity ($C^1$-flatness).