Path integration is a navigation strategy widely observed in nature where an
animal maintains a running estimate of its location during an excursion.
Evidence suggests it is both ancient and ubiquitous in nature. Over the past
century or so, canonical and neural network models have flourished, based on a
wide range of assumptions, justifications and supporting data. Despite the
importance of the phenomenon, consensus and unifying principles appear lacking.
A fundamental issue is the neural representation of space needed for biological
path integration. This paper presents a scheme to classify path integration
systems on the basis of the way the home vector records and updates the spatial
relationship between the animal and its home location. Four extended classes of
coordinate systems are used to unify and review both canonical and neural
network models of path integration, from the arthropod and mammalian
literature. This scheme demonstrates analytical equivalence between models
which may otherwise appear unrelated, and distinguishes between models which
may superficially appear similar. A thorough analysis is carried out of the
equational forms of important facets of path integration including updating,
steering, searching and systematic errors, using each of the four coordinate
systems. The type of available directional cue, namely allothetic or
idiothetic, is also considered. It is shown that on balance, the class of home
vectors which includes the geocentric Cartesian coordinate system, appears to
be the most robust for biological systems. A key conclusion is that deducing
computational structure from behavioural data alone will be difficult or
impossible, at least in the absence of an analysis of random errors.
Consequently it is likely that further theoretical insights into path
integration will require an in-depth study of the effect of noise on the four
classes of home vectors.