We consider the issue of attaining a consistent Hamiltonian formulation,
after a 3+1 splitting, of a well-defined action principle for asymptotically
flat gravity. More precisely, our starting point is the gravitational first
order Holst action with surface terms and fall-off conditions that make the
variational principle and the covariant phase space formulation well-defined
for asymptotically flat spacetimes. Keeping all surface terms and paying due
attention to subtleties that arise from the different cut-offs at infinity, we
give a derivation of the gravitational Hamiltonian starting from this action.
The 3+1 decomposition and time gauge fixing results in a well-defined
Hamiltonian action and a well-defined Hamiltonian formulation for the standard
-and more general- asymptotic ADM conditions. Unlike the case of the
Einstein-Hilbert action with Gibbons-Hawking-York or Hawking-Horowitz terms,
here we {\it {do}} recover the ADM energy-momentum from the covariant surface
term also when more general variations respecting asymptotic flatness are
allowed. Additionally, our strategy yields a derivation of the parity
conditions for connection variables independent of the conditions given by
Regge and Teitelboim for ADM variables. Finally, we exhibit the other
Poincar\'e generators in terms of real Ashtekar-Barbero variables. We
complement previous constructions in self-dual variables by pointing out
several subtleties and refining the argument showing that -on shell- they
coincide with the ADM charges. Our results represent the first consistent
treatment of the Hamiltonian formulation for the connection-tetrad
gravitational degrees of freedom, starting from a well posed action, in the
case of asymptotically flat boundary conditions.