We formulate the Hubbard model for the simple cubic lattice in the
representation of interacting dimers applying the exact solution of the dimer
problem. By eliminating from the considerations unoccupied dimer energy levels
in the large U limit (it is the only assumption) we analytically derive the
Hubbard Hamiltonian for the dimer (analogous to the well-known t-J model), as
well as, the Hubbard Hamiltonian for the crystal as a whole by means of the
projection technique. Using this approach we can better visualize the
complexity of the model, so deeply hidden in its original form. The resulting
Hamiltonian is a mixture of many multiple ferromagnetic, antiferromagnetic and
more exotic interactions competing one with another. The interplay between
different competitive interactions has a decisive influence on the resulting
thermodynamic properties of the model, depending on temperature, model
parameters and assumed average number of electrons per lattice site. A
simplified form of the derived Hamiltonian can be obtained using additionally
Taylor expansion with respect to $x=\frac{t}{U}$ (t-hopping integral between
nearest neighbours, U-Coulomb repulsion). As an example, we present the
expansion including all terms proportional to t and to $\frac{t^2}U$ and we
reproduce the exact form of the Hubbard Hamiltonian in the limit $U\to \infty
$. The nonperturbative approach, presented in this paper, can, in principle, be
applied to clusters of any size, as well as, to another types of model
Hamiltonians.