We are interested in nonlinear hyperbolic systems in nonconservative form
arising in fluid dynamics, and, for solutions containing shock waves, we
investigate the convergence of finite difference schemes applied to such
systems. According to Dal Maso, LeFloch, and Murat's theory, a shock wave
theory for a given nonconservative system requires prescribing a priori a
family of paths in the phase space. In the present paper, we consider schemes
that are formally consistent with a given family of paths, and we investigate
their limiting behavior as the mesh is refined. We generalize to systems a
property established earlier by Hou and LeFloch for scalar conservation laws,
and we prove that nonconservative schemes generate, at the level of the
limiting hyperbolic system, a "convergence error" source-term which, provided
the total variation of the approximations remains uniformly bounded, is a
locally bounded measure. We discuss the role of the equivalent equation
associated with a difference scheme; here, the distinction between scalar
equations and systems appears most clearly since, for systems, the equivalent
equation of a scheme that is formally path-consistent depends upon the
prescribed family of paths. The core of this paper is devoted to investigate
numerically the approximation of several models arising in fluid dynamics. For
systems having nonconservative products associated with linearly degenerate
characteristic fields, the convergence error vanishes. For some other models,
this measure is evaluated very accurately, especially by plotting the shock
curves associated with each scheme under consideration.