Theoretical understanding of strongly correlated systems in one spatial
dimension (1D) has been greatly advanced by the density-matrix renormalization
group (DMRG) algorithm, which is a variational approach using a class of
entanglement-restricted states called Matrix Product States (MPSs). However,
DRMG suffers from inherent accuracy restrictions when multiple states are
involved due to multi-state targeting and also the approximate representation
of the Hamiltonian and other operators. By formulating the variational approach
of DMRG explicitly for MPSs one can avoid errors inherent in the multi-state
targeting approach. Furthermore, by using the Matrix Product Operator (MPO)
formalism, one can exactly represent the Hamiltonian and other operators. The
MPO approach allows 1D Hamiltonians to be templated using a small set of finite
state automaton rules without reference to the particular microscopic degrees
of freedom. We present two algorithms which take advantage of these properties:
eMPS to find excited states of 1D Hamiltonians and tMPS for the time evolution
of a generic time-dependent 1D Hamiltonian. We properly account for
time-ordering of the propagator such that the error does not depend on the rate
of change of the Hamiltonian. Our algorithms use only the MPO form of the
Hamiltonian, and so are applicable to microscopic degrees of freedom of any
variety, and do not require Hamiltonian-specialized implementation. We
benchmark our algorithms with a case study of the Ising model, where the
critical point is located using entanglement measures. We then study the
dynamics of this model under a time-dependent quench of the transverse field
through the critical point. Finally, we present studies of a dipolar, or
long-range Ising model, again using entanglement measures to find the critical
point and study the dynamics of a time-dependent quench through the critical
point.