Analytical (rational) mechanics is the mathematical structure of Newtonian
deterministic dynamics developed by D'Alembert, Langrange, Hamilton, Jacobi,
and many other luminaries of applied mathematics. Diffusion as a stochastic
process of an overdamped individual particle immersed in a fluid, initiated by
Einstein, Smoluchowski, Langevin and Wiener, has no momentum since its path is
nowhere differentiable. In this exposition, we illustrate how analytical
mechanics arises in stochastic dynamics from a randomly perturbed ordinary
differential equation $dX_t=b(X_t)dt+\epsilon dW_t$ where $W_t$ is a Brownian
motion. In the limit of vanishingly small $\epsilon$, the solution to the
stochastic differential equation other than $\dot{x}=b(x)$ are all rare events.
However, conditioned on an occurence of such an event, the most probable
trajectory of the stochastic motion is the solution to Lagrangian mechanics
with $\mathcal{L}=\|\dot{q}-b(q)\|^2/4$ and Hamiltonian equations with
$H(p,q)=\|p\|^2+b(q)\cdot p$. Hamiltonian conservation law implies that the
most probable trajectory for a "rare" event has a uniform "excess kinetic
energy" along its path. Rare events can also be characterized by the principle
of large deviations which expresses the probability density function for $X_t$
as $f(x,t)=e^{-u(x,t)/\epsilon}$, where $u(x,t)$ is called a large-deviation
rate function which satisfies the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi equation. An
irreversible diffusion process with $\nabla\times b\neq 0$ corresponds to a
Newtonian system with a Lorentz force $\ddot{q}=(\nabla\times b)\times
\dot{q}+1/2\nabla\|b\|^2$. The connection between stochastic motion and
analytical mechanics can be explored in terms of various techniques of applied
mathematics, for example, singular perturbations, viscosity solutions, and
integrable systems.