We introduce a family of relativistic non-rigid non-inertial frames as a
gauge fixing of the description of N positive energy particles in the framework
of parametrized Minkowski theories. Then we define a multi-temporal
quantization scheme in which the particles are quantized, but not the gauge
variables describing the non-inertial frames: {\it they are considered as
c-number generalized times}. We study the coupled Schroedinger-like equations
produced by the first class constraints and we show that there is {\it a
physical scalar product independent both from time and generalized times and a
unitary evolution}. Since a path in the space of the generalized times defines
a non-rigid non-inertial frame, we can find the associated self-adjoint
effective Hamiltonian $\hat{H}_{ni}$ for the non-inertial evolution: it differs
from the inertial energy operator for the presence of inertial potentials and
turns out to be {\it frame-dependent} like the energy density in general
relativity. After a separation of the relativistic center of mass from the
relative variables by means of a recently developed relativistic kinematics,
inside $\hat{H}_{ni}$ we can identify the self-adjoint relative energy operator
(the invariant mass) ${\hat{\cal M}}$ corresponding to the inertial energy and
producing the same levels for the spectra of atoms as in inertial frames.
Instead the (in general time-dependent) effective Hamiltonian is responsible
for the interferometric effects signalling the non-inertiality of the frame but
is not interpretable as an energy like in the case of time-dependent c-number
external electro-magnetic fields.