A space-filling function is a bijection from the unit line segment to the
unit square, cube, or hypercube. The function from the unit line segment is
continuous. The inverse function, while well-defined, is not continuous.
Space-filling curves, the finite approximations to space-filling functions,
have found application in global optimization, database indexing, and dimension
reduction among others. For these applications the desired transforms are
mapping a scalar to multidimensional coordinates and mapping multidimensional
coordinates to a scalar.
  Presented are recurrences which produce space-filling functions and curves of
any rank $d\ge2$ based on serpentine Hamiltonian paths on $({\bf Z}\bmod s)^d$
where $s\ge2$. The recurrences for inverse space-filling functions are also
presented. Both Peano and Hilbert curves and functions and their
generalizations to higher dimensions are produced by these recurrences. The
computations of these space-filling functions and their inverse functions are
absolutely convergent geometric series.
  The space-filling functions are constructed as limits of integer recurrences
and equivalently as non-terminating real recurrences. Scaling relations are
given which enable the space-filling functions and curves and their inverses to
extend beyond the unit area or volume and even to all of $d$-space.
  This unification of pandimensional space-filling curves facilitates
quantitative comparison of curves generated from different Hamiltonian paths.
The isotropy and performance in dimension reduction of a variety of
space-filling curves are analyzed.
  For dimension reduction it is found that Hilbert curves perform somewhat
better than Peano curves and their isotropic variants.