Rough path theory is focused on capturing and making precise the interactions
between highly oscillatory and non-linear systems. It draws on the analysis of
LC Young and the geometric algebra of KT Chen. The concepts and the uniform
estimates, have widespread application and have simplified proofs of basic
questions from the large deviation theory and extended Ito's theory of SDEs;
the recent applications contribute to (Graham) automated recognition of Chinese
handwriting and (Hairer) formulation of appropriate SPDEs to model randomly
evolving interfaces. At the heart of the mathematics is the challenge of
describing a smooth but potentially highly oscillatory and vector valued path
$x_{t}$ parsimoniously so as to effectively predict the response of a nonlinear
system such as $dy_{t}=f(y_{t})dx_{t}$, $y_{0}=a$. The Signature is a
homomorphism from the monoid of paths into the grouplike elements of a closed
tensor algebra. It provides a graduated summary of the path $x$. Hambly and
Lyons have shown that this non-commutative transform is faithful for paths of
bounded variation up to appropriate null modifications. Among paths of bounded
variation with given Signature there is always a unique shortest
representative. These graduated summaries or features of a path are at the
heart of the definition of a rough path; locally they remove the need to look
at the fine structure of the path. Taylor's theorem explains how any smooth
function can, locally, be expressed as a linear combination of certain special
functions (monomials based at that point). Coordinate iterated integrals form a
more subtle algebra of features that can describe a stream or path in an
analogous way; they allow a definition of rough path and a natural linear
"basis" for functions on streams that can be used for machine learning.