We derive the semiclassical approximation to Feynman's path integral
representation of the energy Green function of a massless particle in the
shadow region of an ideal obstacle in a medium. The wavelength of the particle
is assumed to be comparable to or smaller than any relevant length of the
problem. Classical paths with extremal length partially creep along the
obstacle and their fluctuations are subject to non-holonomic constraints. If
the medium is a vacuum, the asymptotic contribution from a single classical
path of overall length L to the energy Green function at energy E is that of a
non-relativistic particle of mass E/c^2 moving in the two-dimensional space
orthogonal to the classical path for a time \tau=L/c. Dirichlet boundary
conditions at the surface of the obstacle constrain the motion of the particle
to the exterior half-space and result in an effective time-dependent but
spatially constant force that is inversely proportional to the radius of
curvature of the classical path. We relate the diffractive, classically
forbidden motion in the "creeping" case to the classically allowed motion in
the "whispering gallery" case by analytic continuation in the curvature of the
classical path. The non-holonomic constraint implies that the surface of the
obstacle becomes a zero-dimensional caustic of the particle's motion. We solve
this problem for extremal rays with piecewise constant curvature and provide
uniform asymptotic expressions that are approximately valid in the penumbra as
well as in the deep shadow of a sphere.