Diverse classes of proteins function through large-scale conformational
changes and various sophisticated computational algorithms have been proposed
to enhance sampling of these macromolecular transition paths. Because such
paths are curves in a high-dimensional space, it has been difficult to
quantitatively compare multiple paths, a necessary prerequisite to, for
instance, assess the quality of different algorithms. We introduce a
comprehensive method named Path Similarity Analysis (PSA) that enables us to
quantify the similarity between two arbitrary paths and extract the
atomic-scale determinants responsible for their differences. PSA utilizes the
full information available in $3N$-dimensional configuration space trajectories
by employing the Hausdorff or Fr\'echet metrics (adopted from computational
geometry) to quantify the degree of similarity between piecewise-linear curves.
It thus completely avoids relying on projections into low dimensional spaces,
as used in traditional approaches. Using, as an example, the closed-to-open
transitions of the enzyme adenylate kinase (AdK) in its substrate-free form, we
compared a range of protein transition path-generating algorithms. PSA with
clustering revealed that paths produced by a given method are more similar to
each other than to those from another method and, for instance, that the
ENM-based methods produced relatively similar paths. The new concept of a
Hausdorff-pair map enabled us to extract the molecular structural determinants
responsible for differences in pathways, namely a set of conserved salt bridges
whose charge-charge interactions are fully modelled in DIMS MD but not in
FRODA. PSA has the potential to enhance our understanding of transition path
sampling methods, validate them, and ultimately help guide future research
toward deeper physical insights into conformational transitions.