Motivated by the study of traces on graph $C^*$-algebras, we consider traces
(additive, central maps) on Leavitt path algebras, the algebraic counterparts
of graph $C^*$-algebras. In particular, we consider traces which vanish on
nonzero graded components of a Leavitt path algebra and refer to them as {\em
canonical} since they are uniquely determined by their values on the vertices.
  A desirable property of a $\mathbb{C}$-valued trace on a $C^*$-algebra is
that the trace of an element of the positive cone is nonnegative. We adapt this
property to traces on a Leavitt path algebra $L_K(E)$ with values in any
involutive ring. We refer to traces with this property as positive. If a
positive trace is injective on positive elements, we say that it is faithful.
We characterize when a canonical, $K$-linear trace is positive and when it is
faithful in terms of its values on the vertices. As a consequence, we obtain a
bijective correspondence between the set of faithful, gauge invariant,
$\mathbb{C}$-valued (algebra) traces on $L_{\mathbb{C}}(E)$ of a countable
graph $E$ and the set of faithful, semifinite, lower semicontinuous, gauge
invariant (operator theory) traces on the corresponding graph $C^*$-algebra
$C^*(E)$.
  With the direct finite condition (i.e $xy=1$ implies $yx=1$) for unital rings
adapted to rings with local units, we characterize directly finite Leavitt path
algebras as exactly those having the underlying graphs in which no cycle has an
exit. Our proof involves consideration of "local" Cohn-Leavitt subalgebras of
finite subgraphs. Lastly, we show that, while related, the class of locally
noetherian, the class of directly finite, and the class of Leavitt path
algebras which admit a faithful trace are different in general.