We analyse the effect of intrinsic fluctuations on the properties of bistable
stochastic systems with time scale separation operating under1 quasi-steady
state conditions. We first formulate a stochastic generalisation of the
quasi-steady state approximation based on the semi-classical approximation of
the partial differential equation for the generating function associated with
the Chemical Master Equation. Such approximation proceeds by optimising an
action functional whose associated set of Euler-Lagrange (Hamilton) equations
provide the most likely fluctuation path. We show that, under appropriate
conditions granting time scale separation, the Hamiltonian can be re-scaled so
that the set of Hamilton equations splits up into slow and fast variables,
whereby the quasi-steady state approximation can be applied. We analyse two
particular examples of systems whose mean-field limit has been shown to exhibit
bi-stability: an enzyme-catalysed system of two mutually-inhibitory proteins
and a gene regulatory circuit with self-activation. Our theory establishes that
the number of molecules of the conserved species are order parameters whose
variation regulates bistable behaviour in the associated systems beyond the
predictions of the mean-field theory. This prediction is fully confirmed by
direct numerical simulations using the stochastic simulation algorithm. This
result allows us to propose strategies whereby, by varying the number of
molecules of the three conserved chemical species, cell properties associated
to bistable behaviour (phenotype, cell-cycle status, etc.) can be controlled.