We analyze the motion of a single hole on a N\'eel background, neglecting
spin fluctuations. Brinkman and Rice studied this problem on a cubic lattice,
introducing the retraceable-path approximation for the hole Green's function,
exact in a one-dimensional lattice. Metzner et al. showed that the
approximationalso becomes exact in the infinite-dimensional limit. We introduce
a new approach to this problem by resumming the Nagaoka expansion of the
propagator in terms of non-retraceable skeleton-paths dressed by
retraceable-path insertions. This resummation opens the way to an almost
quantitative solution of the problemin all dimensions and, in particular sheds
new light on the question of the position of the band-edges. We studied the
motion of the hole on a double chain and a square lattice, for which deviations
from the retraceable-path approximation are expected to be most pronounced. The
density of states is mostly adequately accounted for by the
retra\-ce\-able-path approximation. Our band-edge determination points towards
an absence of band tails extending to the Nagaoka energy in the spectrums of
the double chain and the square lattice. We also evaluated the spectral density
and the self-energy, exhibiting k-dependence due to finite dimensionality. We
find good agreement with recent numerical results obtained by Sorella et al.
with the Lanczos spectra decoding method. The method we employ enables us to
identify the hole paths which are responsible for the various features present
in the density of states and the spectral density.