Let a and b be two positive integers. A culminating path is a path of Z^2
that starts from (0,0), consists of steps (1,a) and (1,-b), stays above the
x-axis and ends at the highest ordinate it ever reaches. These paths were first
encountered in bioinformatics, in the analysis of similarity search algorithms.
They are also related to certain models of Lorentzian gravity in theoretical
physics. We first show that the language on a two letter alphabet that
naturally encodes culminating paths is not context-free. Then, we focus on the
enumeration of culminating paths. A step by step approach, combined with the
kernel method, provides a closed form expression for the generating fucntion of
culminating paths ending at a (generic) height k. In the case a=b, we derive
from this expression the asymptotic behaviour of the number of culminating
paths of length n. When a>b, we obtain the asymptotic behaviour by a simpler
argument. When a<b, we only determine the exponential growth of the number of
culminating paths. Finally, we study the uniform random generation of
culminating paths via various methods. The rejection approach, coupled with a
symmetry argument, gives an algorithm that is linear when a>= b, with no
precomputation stage nor non-linear storage required. The choice of the best
algorithm is not as clear when a<b. An elementary recursive approach yields a
linear algorithm after a precomputation stage involving O(n^3) arithmetic
operations, but we also present some alternatives that may be more efficient in
practise.