Inelastic scattering and carrier capture by defects in semiconductors are the
primary causes of hot-electron-mediated degradation of power devices, which
holds up their commercial development. At the same time, carrier capture is a
major issue in the performance of solar cells and light-emitting diodes. A
theory of nonradiative inelastic scattering by defects, however, is
non-existent, while the the- ory for carrier capture by defects has had a long
and arduous history. Here we report the construction of a comprehensive theory
of inelastic scattering by defects, with carrier capture being a special case.
We distinguish between capture under thermal equilibrium conditions and capture
under non-equilibrium conditions, e.g., in the presence of electrical current
or hot carriers where carriers undergo scattering by defects and are described
by a mean free path. In the thermal-equilibrium case, capture is mediated by a
non-adiabatic perturbation Hamiltonian, originally identified by Huang and Rhys
and by Kubo, which is equal to linear electron-phonon coupling to first order.
In the non-equilibrium case, we demonstrate that the primary capture mechanism
is within the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, with coupling to the defect
potential inducing Franck-Condon electronic transitions, followed by
multiphonon dissipation of the transition energy, while the non-adiabatic terms
are of secondary importance. We report density-functional-theory calculations
of the capture cross section for a prototype defect using the
Projector-Augmented-Wave which allows us to employ all-electron wavefunctions.
We adopt a Monte Carlo scheme to sample multiphonon configurations and obtain
converged results. The theory and the results represent a foundation upon which
to build engineering-level models for hot-electron degradation of power devices
and the performance of solar cells and light-emitting diodes.