While Hermiticity of a time-independent Hamiltonian leads to unitary time
evolution, in and of itself, the requirement of Hermiticity is only sufficient
for unitary time evolution. In this paper we provide conditions that are both
necessary and sufficient. We show that $PT$ symmetry of a time-independent
Hamiltonian, or equivalently, reality of the secular equation that determines
its eigenvalues, is both necessary and sufficient for unitary time evolution.
For any $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian $H$ there always exists an operator $V$ that
relates $H$ to its Hermitian adjoint according to $VHV^{-1}=H^{\dagger}$. When
the energy spectrum of $H$ is complete, Hilbert space norms $<\psi_1|V|\psi_2>$
constructed with this $V$ are always preserved in time. With the energy
eigenvalues of a real secular equation being either real or appearing in
complex conjugate pairs, we thus establish the unitarity of time evolution in
both cases. We also establish the unitarity of time evolution for Hamiltonians
whose energy spectra are not complete. We show that when the energy eigenvalues
of a Hamiltonian are real and complete the operator $V$ is a positive Hermitian
operator, which has an associated square root operator that can be used to
bring the Hamiltonian to a Hermitian form. We show that systems with
$PT$-symmetric Hamiltonians obey causality. We note that Hermitian theories are
ordinarily associated with a path integral quantization prescription in which
the path integral measure is real, while in contrast non-Hermitian but
$PT$-symmetric theories are ordinarily associated with path integrals in which
the measure needs to be complex, but in which the Euclidean time continuation
of the path integral is nonetheless real. We show that through $PT$ symmetry
the fourth-order derivative Pais-Uhlenbeck theory can be stabilized against
transitions to states negative frequency.