With this paper, a consistent and comprehensive treatise on the foundations
of the extended Hamilton-Lagrange formalism will be presented. In this
formalism, the system's dynamics is parametrized along a time-like system
evolution parameter $s$, and the physical time $t$ is treated as a dependent
variable $t(s)$ on equal footing with all other configuration space variables
$q^{i}(s)$. In the action principle, the conventional classical action $L\,dt$
is then replaced by the generalized action $L_{e}ds$, with $L$ and $L_{e}$
denoting the conventional and the extended Lagrangian, respectively. In the
existing literature, the discussion is restricted to only those extended
Lagrangians $L_{e}$ that are homogeneous forms of first order in the
velocities.
  It is shown that a class of extended Lagrangians $L_{e}$ exists that are
correlated to corresponding conventional Lagrangians $L$ without being
homogeneous functions in the velocities. Then the Legendre transformation of
$L_{e}$ to an extended Hamiltonian $H_{e}$ exists. With this class of extended
Hamiltonians, an extended canonical formalism is presented that is completely
analogous to the conventional Hamiltonian formalism. The physical time $t$ and
the negative value of the conventional Hamiltonian then constitute and an
additional pair of conjugate canonical variables. The extended formalism also
includes a theory of extended canonical transformations, where the time
variable $t(s)$ is also subject to transformation.
  In the extended formalism, the system's dynamics is described as a motion on
a hypersurface within an extended phase space of even dimension. It is shown
that the hypersurface condition does not embody a constraint as the condition
is automatically satisfied on the system path that is given by the solution of
the extended set of canonical equations.