Given $n$ subspaces of a finite-dimensional vector space over a fixed finite
field $\mathbb F$, we wish to find a linear layout $V_1,V_2,\ldots,V_n$ of the
subspaces such that $\dim(V_1+V_2+\cdots+V_i)\cap(V_{i+1}+\cdots+V_n)\le k$ for
all $i$; such a linear layout is said to have width at most $k$. When
restricted to $1$-dimensional subspaces, this problem is equivalent to
computing the path-width of an $\mathbb F$-represented matroid in matroid
theory and computing the trellis-width (or minimum trellis state-complexity) of
a linear code in coding theory.
  We present a fixed-parameter tractable algorithm to construct a linear layout
of width at most $k$, if it exists, for input subspaces of a finite-dimensional
vector space over $\mathbb F$. As corollaries, we obtain a fixed-parameter
tractable algorithm to produce a path-decomposition of width at most $k$ for an
input $\mathbb F$-represented matroid of path-width at most $k$, and a
fixed-parameter tractable algorithm to find a linear rank-decomposition of
width at most $k$ for an input graph of linear rank-width at most $k$. In both
corollaries, no such algorithms were known previously. Our approach is based on
dynamic programming combined with the idea developed by Bodlaender and Kloks
(1996) for their work on path-width and tree-width of graphs.
  It was previously known that a fixed-parameter tractable algorithm exists for
the decision version of the problem for matroid path-width; a theorem by
Geelen, Gerards, and Whittle (2002) implies that for each fixed finite field
$\mathbb F$, there are finitely many forbidden $\mathbb F$-representable minors
for the class of matroids of path-width at most $k$. However, this indirect
approach would not produce an actual path-decomposition even if the complete
list of forbidden minors were known. Our algorithm is the first one to
construct such a path-decomposition.