Consider the task of sampling and reconstructing a bandlimited spatial field
in $\Re^2$ using moving sensors that take measurements along their path. It is
inexpensive to increase the sampling rate along the paths of the sensors but
more expensive to increase the total distance traveled by the sensors per unit
area, which we call the \emph{path density}. In this paper we introduce the
problem of designing sensor trajectories that are minimal in path density
subject to the condition that the measurements of the field on these
trajectories admit perfect reconstruction of bandlimited fields. We study
various possible designs of sampling trajectories. Generalizing some ideas from
the classical theory of sampling on lattices, we obtain necessary and
sufficient conditions on the trajectories for perfect reconstruction. We show
that a single set of equispaced parallel lines has the lowest path density from
certain restricted classes of trajectories that admit perfect reconstruction.
  We then generalize some of our results to higher dimensions. We first obtain
results on designing sampling trajectories in higher dimensional fields.
Further, interpreting trajectories as 1-dimensional manifolds, we extend some
of our ideas to higher dimensional sampling manifolds. We formulate the problem
of designing $\kappa$-dimensional sampling manifolds for $d$-dimensional
spatial fields that are minimal in \emph{manifold density}, a natural
generalization of the path density. We show that our results on sampling
trajectories for fields in $\Re^2$ can be generalized to analogous results on
$d-1$-dimensional sampling manifolds for $d$-dimensional spatial fields.