Shortest path computation is one of the most fundamental operations for
managing and analyzing large social networks. Though existing techniques are
quite effective for finding the shortest path on large but sparse road
networks, social graphs have quite different characteristics: they are
generally non-spatial, non-weighted, scale-free, and they exhibit small-world
properties in addition to their massive size. In particular, the existence of
hubs, those vertices with a large number of connections, explodes the search
space, making the shortest path computation surprisingly challenging. In this
paper, we introduce a set of novel techniques centered around hubs,
collectively referred to as the Hub-Accelerator framework, to compute the
k-degree shortest path (finding the shortest path between two vertices if their
distance is within k). These techniques enable us to significantly reduce the
search space by either greatly limiting the expansion scope of hubs (using the
novel distance- preserving Hub-Network concept) or completely pruning away the
hubs in the online search (using the Hub2-Labeling approach). The
Hub-Accelerator approaches are more than two orders of magnitude faster than
BFS and the state-of-the-art approximate shortest path method Sketch for the
shortest path computation. The Hub- Network approach does not introduce
additional index cost with light pre-computation cost; the index size and index
construction cost of Hub2-Labeling are also moderate and better than or
comparable to the approximation indexing Sketch method.