The Einstein constraint equations have been the subject of study for more
than fifty years. The introduction of the conformal method in the 1970's as a
parameterization of initial data for the Einstein equations led to increased
interest in the development of a complete solution theory for the constraints,
with the theory for constant mean curvature (CMC) spatial slices and closed
manifolds completely developed by 1995. The first general non-CMC existence
result was establish by Holst et al. in 2008, with extensions to rough data by
Holst et al. in 2009, and to vacuum spacetimes by Maxwell in 2009. The non-CMC
theory remains mostly open; moreover, recent work of Maxwell on specific
symmetry models sheds light on fundamental non-uniqueness problems with the
conformal method as a parameterization in non-CMC settings. In parallel with
these mathematical developments, computational physicists have uncovered
surprising behavior in numerical solutions to the extended conformal thin
sandwich formulation of the Einstein constraints. In particular, numerical
evidence suggests the existence of multiple solutions with a quadratic fold,
and a recent analysis of a simplified model supports this conclusion. In this
article, we examine this apparent bifurcation phenomena in a methodical way,
using modern techniques in bifurcation theory and in numerical homotopy
methods. We first review the evidence for the presence of bifurcation in the
Hamiltonian constraint in the time-symmetric case. We give a brief introduction
to the mathematical framework for analyzing bifurcation phenomena, and then
develop the main ideas behind the construction of numerical homotopy, or
path-following, methods in the analysis of bifurcation phenomena. We then apply
the continuation software package AUTO to this problem, and verify the presence
of the fold with homotopy-based numerical methods.