The main purpose of this paper is to propose a scheme of a proof of the
non-simpleness of the group $Homeo^\Omega(D^2,\partial D^2)$ of area preserving
homeomorphisms of the 2-disc $D^2$. We first establish the existence of
Alexander isotopy in the category of Hamiltonian homeomorphisms. Next,
considering the graph of \emph{contractible} topological Hamiltonian loop
$\phi_F$ on $D^2 \subset S^2$ generated by the Hamiltonian $F$ with
$\text{supp} F \subset \text{Int} D^2$, we prove that the basic phase function
$f_{\underline{\mathbb F}}$ associated to the graph and the normalized
Hamiltonian $\underline{F}$ is a constant function whose value coincides with
the Calabi invariant $\text{Cal}^{path}(\phi_F) = \text{Cal}(F)$ of the
topological Hamiltonian loop $\phi_F$. This reduces the question of
extendability of the well-known Calabi homomorphism $\text{Cal}:
Diff^\Omega(D^1,\partial D^2) \to \mathbb R$ to a homomorphism
$\overline{\text{Cal}}: Hameo(D^2,\partial D^2) \to \mathbb R$ to that of the
vanishing of $f_{\underline{\mathbb F}}$ which is the main conjecture proposed
in this article. Here $Hameo(D^2,\partial D^2)$ is the group of Hamiltonian
homeomorphisms introduced by M\"uller and the contributor which they showed is a
normal subgroup by construction. We then provide an evidence of this conjecture
by proving the conjecture for the special class of \emph{weakly graphical}
topological Hamiltonian loops on $D^2$ via a study of the associated
Hamilton-Jacobi equation.