B.A. Dubrovin proved that remarkable WDVV associativity equations are
integrable systems. In a simplest nontrivial three-component case these
equations can be written as a nondiagonalizable hydrodynamic type system
equivalent to a symmetric reduction of the three wave interaction and to the
matrix Hopf equation. Then E.V. Ferapontov and O.I. Mokhov found a local
Hamiltonian structure. Finally E.V. Ferapontov, C.A.P. Galv\~{a}o, O.I. Mokhov,
Ya. Nutku found a second local Hamiltonian structure. Both local Hamiltonian
structure are homogeneous of first and third order (respectively) of
Dubrovin--Novikov type.
  In our paper we suggest a special scaling procedure for independent variables
applicable for homogeneous nonlinear PDE's, which allows to incorporate an
auxiliary parameter $\epsilon $, such that a corresponding \textquotedblleft
intermediate\textquotedblright\ system possesses two remarkable limits: a
high-frequency limit ($\epsilon \rightarrow \infty $) back to the original
system and a dispersionless limit ($\epsilon \rightarrow 0$) which yields
diagonalizable integrable hydrodynamic type system. This means that our
procedure allows to transform a homogeneous third order local Hamiltonian
structure to non-homogeneous of third order. Thus we create an integrable
hierarchy equipped by a pair of local Hamiltonian structures, which (both of
them) possess a dispersionless limit. Also we show that this bi-Hamiltonian
diagonalizable hydrodynamic type system possesses at least two different
dispersive integrable extensions (in a framework of B.A. Dubrovin's approach)