A class of non-Hermitian quadratic su(2) Hamiltonians having an anti-linear
symmetry is constructed. This is achieved by analysing the possible symmetries
of such systems in terms of automorphisms of the algebra. In fact, different
realisations for this type of symmetry are obtained, including the natural
occurrence of charge conjugation together with parity and time reversal. Once
specified the underlying anti-linear symmetry of the Hamiltonian, the former,
if unbroken, leads to a purely real spectrum and the latter can be mapped to a
Hermitian counterpart by, amongst other possibilities, a similarity
transformation. Here, Lie-algebraic methods which were used to investigate the
generalised Swanson Hamiltonian are employed to identify the class of quadratic
Hamiltonians that allow for such a mapping to the Hermitian counterpart.
Whereas for the linear su(2) system every Hamiltonian of this type can be
mapped to a Hermitian counterpart by a transformation which is itself an
exponential of a linear combination of su(2) generators, the situation is more
complicated for quadratic Hamiltonians. Therefore, the possibility of more
elaborate similarity transformations, including quadratic exponents, is also
explored in detail. The existence of finite dimensional representations for the
su(2) Hamiltonian, as opposed to the su(1,1) studied before, allows for
comparison with explicit diagonalisation results for finite matrices. Finally,
the similarity transformations constructed are compared with the analogue of
Swanson's method for exact diagonalsation of the problem, establishing a simple
relation between both approaches.