A method is presented for generating a good initial guess of a transition
path between given initial and final states of a system without evaluation of
the energy. An objective function surface is constructed using an interpolation
of pairwise distances at each discretization point along the path and the
nudged elastic band method then used to find an optimal path on this image
dependent pair potential (IDPP) surface. This provides an initial path for the
more computationally intensive calculations of the true minimum energy path
using some method of choice for evaluating the energy and atomic forces, for
example by ab initio or density functional theory. The optimal path on the IDPP
surface is significantly closer to the true minimum energy path than a linear
interpolation of the Cartesian coordinates and, therefore, reduces the number
of iterations needed to reach convergence and averts divergence in the
electronic structure calculations when atoms are brought too close to each
other in the initial path. The method is illustrated with three examples: (1)
rotation of a methyl group in an ethane molecule, (2) an exchange of atoms in
an island on a crystal surface, and (3) an exchange of two Si-atoms in
amorphous silicon. In all three cases, the computational effort in finding the
minimum energy path with DFT was reduced by a factor ranging from 50 % to an
order of magnitude by using an IDPP path as the initial path. The time required
for parallel computations was reduced even more because of load imbalance when
linear interpolation of Cartesian coordinates was used.