Discrete-state, continuous-time Markov models are widely used in the modeling
of biochemical reaction networks. Their complexity often precludes analytic
solution, and we rely on stochastic simulation algorithms to estimate system
statistics. The Gillespie algorithm is exact, but computationally costly as it
simulates every single reaction. As such, approximate stochastic simulation
algorithms such as the tau-leap algorithm are often used. Potentially
computationally more efficient, the system statistics generated suffer from
significant bias unless tau is relatively small, in which case the
computational time can be comparable to that of the Gillespie algorithm. The
multi-level method (Anderson and Higham, Multiscale Model. Simul. 2012) tackles
this problem. A base estimator is computed using many (cheap) sample paths at
low accuracy. The bias inherent in this estimator is then reduced using a
number of corrections. Each correction term is estimated using a collection of
paired sample paths where one path of each pair is generated at a higher
accuracy compared to the other (and so more expensive). By sharing random
variables between these paired paths the variance of each correction estimator
can be reduced. This renders the multi-level method very efficient as only a
relatively small number of paired paths are required to calculate each
correction term. In the original multi-level method, each sample path is
simulated using the tau-leap algorithm with a fixed value of $\tau$. This
approach can result in poor performance when the reaction activity of a system
changes substantially over the timescale of interest. By introducing a novel,
adaptive time-stepping approach where $\tau$ is chosen according to the
stochastic behaviour of each sample path we extend the applicability of the
multi-level method to such cases. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method
using a number of examples.