The present study investigates the effect of temperature-induced change of
phase from face centred cubic solid to liquid on the size dependence of self
diffusivity of solutes through detailed molecular dynamics simulations on
binary mixtures consisting of a larger solvent and a smaller solute interacting
via Lennard-Jones potential. The effect of change in density during the
solid-liquid transition as well as in the solid and the liquid phase itself
have been studied through two sets of simulations one at fixed density(NVE)and
another at variable density(NPT). A size dependent diffusivity maximum is seen
in both solid and liquid phases at most densities except at low liquid
densities. Two distinct regimes may be identified : linear and anomalous
regimes. It is seen that the effect of solid to liquid transition is to shift
the diffusivity maximum to smaller sizes of the solutes and decrease the height
of the maximum. This is attributed to the predominant influence of disorder and
relatively weaker influence of density. The latter shifts the diffusivity
maximum towards larger solute size while the former does exactly the opposite.
Interestingly, we find that lower densities lead to weaker diffusivity maximum.
We report for the first time for systems with large solute-solvent interaction
strength, $\epsilon_{uv}$, multiple diffusivity maximum is seen as a function
of the solute size. The origin of this is not clear. A remarkable difference in
the ballistic-diffusive transition is seen between solutes from the linear
regime and anomalous regime. It is found that this transition is sharp for
solutes from anomalous regime. This provides interesting insight into motion of
anomalous regime solutes. Apart from these, we report several properties which
are different for the linear and anomalous regime solutes.