Non-destructive methods were used to estimate the volume, aerial biomass and
amount of carbon stored by individuals of different plant species, communities,
vegetation types and coverage based on using elemental information capture,
three-dimensional architecture and recurrent neural networks. This methodology
accurately captures the diversity of plant forms present in plots or releves.
The calculation of stored carbon in a vegetation type is a result from half the
estimates of the biomass of sampled individuals in significant plots by the use
of allometric formulas. The most complete formulas incorporate the diameter,
height and specific gravity of trees but do not consider the variation in
carbon stored in different organs or different species as well as exclude
information on the wide variety of architectures present in different plant
communities. To develop an allometric model, many individuals of different
species must be sacrificed for the identification processes, validation and
error minimization. It is common to find cutting-edge studies in which logging
is encouraged to improve estimates of carbon. In this study, we replace this
destructive methodology and provide an important contribution to quantifying
global aboveground carbon. We have demonstrated with our methodology that
carbon content in forest above-ground biomass in the pantropic could rise to
723.97 Pg C. This would involve the reassessment of many climatic and
ecological models in order to move towards a better understanding of the
adverse effects of climate change.