We study the standard SIS model of epidemic spreading on networks where
individuals have a fluctuating number of connections around a preferred degree
$\kappa $. Using very simple rules for forming such preferred degree networks,
we find some unusual statistical properties not found in familiar
Erd\H{o}s-R\'{e}nyi or scale free networks. By letting $\kappa $ depend on the
fraction of infected individuals, we model the behavioral changes in response
to how the extent of the epidemic is perceived. In our models, the behavioral
adaptations can be either `blind' or `selective' -- depending on whether a node
adapts by cutting or adding links to randomly chosen partners or selectively,
based on the state of the partner. For a frozen preferred network, we find that
the infection threshold follows the heterogeneous mean field result
$\lambda_{c}/\mu =<k>/<k^{2}>$ and the phase diagram matches the predictions of
the annealed adjacency matrix (AAM) approach. With `blind' adaptations,
although the epidemic threshold remains unchanged, the infection level is
substantially affected, depending on the details of the adaptation. The
`selective' adaptive SIS models are most interesting. Both the threshold and
the level of infection changes, controlled not only by how the adaptations are
implemented but also how often the nodes cut/add links (compared to the time
scales of the epidemic spreading). A simple mean field theory is presented for
the selective adaptations which capture the qualitative and some of the
quantitative features of the infection phase diagram.