We present a detailed study of molecular gas in the central 10pc of the
Galaxy through spectral line observations of four rotation inversion
transitions of NH3 made with the VLA. Updated line widths and NH3(1,1)
opacities are presented, and temperatures, column densities, and masses are
derived. We examine the impact of Sgr A East on molecular material at the
Galactic center and find that there is no evidence that the expansion of this
shell has moved a significant amount of the 50 km/s GMC. The western streamer,
however, shows strong indications that it is composed of material swept-up by
the expansion of Sgr A East. Using the mass and kinematics of the western
streamer, we calculate an energy of E=(2-9)x10^{51} ergs for the progenitor
explosion and conclude that Sgr A East was most likely produced by a single
supernova. The temperature structure of molecular gas in the central ~20pc is
also analyzed in detail. We find that molecular gas has a ``two-temperature''
structure similar to that measured by Huttemeister et al. (2003a) on larger
scales. The largest observed line ratios, however, cannot be understood in
terms of a two-temperature model, and most likely result from absorption of
NH3(3,3) emission by cool surface layers of clouds. By comparing the observed
NH3 (6,6)-to-(3,3) line ratios, we disentangle three distinct molecular
features within a projected distance of 2pc from Sgr A*. Gas associated with
the highest line ratios shows kinematic signatures of both rotation and
expansion. The southern streamer shows no significant velocity gradients and
does not appear to be directly associated with either the circumnuclear disk or
the nucleus. The paper concludes with a discussion of the line-of-sight
arrangement of the main features in the central 10pc.