We present a complete set of formulas for longitudinal momentum distribution
functions (splitting functions) of mesons in the nucleon. It can be applied in
the framework of convolution formalism to the deep-inelastic structure
functions (quark distributions) of the nucleon viewed as a system composed of
virtual 'mesons' and 'baryons'. Pseudoscalar and vector mesons as well as octet
and decuplet baryons are included. In contrast to many approaches in the
literature the present approach ensures charge and momentum conservation by the
construction. We present not only spin averaged splitting functions but also
helicity dependent ones, which can be used to study the spin content of the
nucleon. The cut-off parameters of the underlying form factors for different
vertices are determined from high-energy particle production data. This
information allows one to calculate the flavour and spin content of the
nucleon. The value of the Gottfried Sum Rule obtained from our model (S_G =
0.224) nicely agrees with that obtained by the NMC. In addition, we calculate
the x-dependence of the \bar d - \bar u asymmetry and get an impressive
agreement with a recent fit of Martin-Stirling-Roberts. The calculated axial
coupling constants for semileptonic decays of the octet baryons agree with the
experimental data already with SU(6) wave function for the bare nucleon.
Although we get improvements for the Ellis-Jaffe Sum Rules for the proton and
neutron in comparison to the naive quark model, the MCM is not sufficient to
reproduce the experimental data.