Let $G$ be a simple, undirected, finite graph with vertex set $V(G)$ and edge
set $E(G)$. A $k$-dimensional box is a Cartesian product of closed intervals
$[a_1,b_1]\times [a_2,b_2]\times...\times [a_k,b_k]$. The {\it boxicity} of
$G$, $\boxi(G)$ is the minimum integer $k$ such that $G$ can be represented as
the intersection graph of $k$-dimensional boxes, i.e. each vertex is mapped to
a $k$-dimensional box and two vertices are adjacent in $G$ if and only if their
corresponding boxes intersect. Let $\poset=(S,P)$ be a poset where $S$ is the
ground set and $P$ is a reflexive, anti-symmetric and transitive binary
relation on $S$. The dimension of $\poset$, $\dim(\poset)$ is the minimum
integer $t$ such that $P$ can be expressed as the intersection of $t$ total
orders. Let $G_\poset$ be the \emph{underlying comparability graph} of
$\poset$, i.e. $S$ is the vertex set and two vertices are adjacent if and only
if they are comparable in $\poset$. It is a well-known fact that posets with
the same underlying comparability graph have the same dimension. The first
result of this paper links the dimension of a poset to the boxicity of its
underlying comparability graph. In particular, we show that for any poset
$\poset$, $\boxi(G_\poset)/(\chi(G_\poset)-1) \le \dim(\poset)\le
2\boxi(G_\poset)$, where $\chi(G_\poset)$ is the chromatic number of $G_\poset$
and $\chi(G_\poset)\ne1$. It immediately follows that if $\poset$ is a height-2
poset, then $\boxi(G_\poset)\le \dim(\poset)\le 2\boxi(G_\poset)$ since the
underlying comparability graph of a height-2 poset is a bipartite graph. The
second result of the paper relates the boxicity of a graph $G$ with a natural
partial order associated with the \emph{extended double cover} of $G$, denoted
as $G_c$: Note that $G_c$ is a bipartite graph with partite sets $A$ and $B$
which are copies of $V(G)$ such that corresponding to every $u\in V(G)$, there
are two vertices $u_A\in A$ and $u_B\in B$ and $\{u_A,v_B\}$ is an edge in
$G_c$ if and only if either $u=v$ or $u$ is adjacent to $v$ in $G$. Let
$\poset_c$ be the natural height-2 poset associated with $G_c$ by making $A$
the set of minimal elements and $B$ the set of maximal elements. We show that
$\frac{\boxi(G)}{2} \le \dim(\poset_c) \le 2\boxi(G)+4$. These results have
some immediate and significant consequences. The upper bound $\dim(\poset)\le
2\boxi(G_\poset)$ allows us to derive hitherto unknown upper bounds for poset
dimension such as $\dim(\poset)\le 2\tw(G_\poset)+4$, since boxicity of any
graph is known to be at most its $\tw+2$. In the other direction, using the
already known bounds for partial order dimension we get the following: (1) The
boxicity of any graph with maximum degree $\Delta$ is $O(\Delta\log^2\Delta)$
which is an improvement over the best known upper bound of $\Delta^2+2$. (2)
There exist graphs with boxicity $\Omega(\Delta\log\Delta)$. This disproves a
conjecture that the boxicity of a graph is $O(\Delta)$. (3) There exists no
polynomial-time algorithm to approximate the boxicity of a bipartite graph on
$n$ vertices with a factor of $O(n^{0.5-\epsilon})$ for any $\epsilon>0$,
unless $NP=ZPP$.