A model for the formation and distribution of sedimentary rocks on Mars is
proposed. The rate-limiting step is supply of liquid water from seasonal
melting of snow or ice. The model is run for a O(10^2) mbar pure CO2
atmosphere, dusty snow, and solar luminosity reduced by 23%. For these
conditions snow only melts near the equator, and only when obliquity >40
degrees, eccentricity >0.12, and perihelion occurs near equinox. These
requirements for melting are satisfied by 0.01-20% of the probability
distribution of Mars' past spin-orbit parameters. Total melt production is
sufficient to account for aqueous alteration of the sedimentary rocks. The
pattern of seasonal snowmelt is integrated over all spin-orbit parameters and
compared to the observed distribution of sedimentary rocks. The global
distribution of snowmelt has maxima in Valles Marineris, Meridiani Planum and
Gale Crater. These correspond to maxima in the sedimentary-rock distribution.
Higher pressures and especially higher temperatures lead to melting over a
broader range of spin-orbit parameters. The pattern of sedimentary rocks on
Mars is most consistent with a Mars paleoclimate that only rarely produced
enough meltwater to precipitate aqueous cements and indurate sediment. The
results suggest intermittency of snowmelt and long globally-dry intervals,
unfavorable for past life on Mars. This model makes testable predictions for
the Mars Science Laboratory rover at Gale Crater. Gale Crater is predicted to
be a hemispheric maximum for snowmelt on Mars.