One third of present-day spirals host optically visible strong bars that
drive their dynamical evolution. However, the fundamental question of how bars
evolve over cosmological times has yet to be addressed, and even the frequency
of bars at intermediate redshifts remains controversial. We investigate the
frequency of bars out to z~1.0 drawing on a sample of 1590 galaxies from the
GEMS survey, which provides morphologies from HST ACS two-color images, and
highly accurate redshifts from the COMBO-17 survey. We identify spiral galaxies
using the Sersic index, concentration parameter, and rest-frame color. We
characterize bars and disks by fitting ellipses to F606W and F850LP images,
taking advantage of the two bands to minimize bandpass shifting. We exclude
highly inclined (i>60 deg) galaxies to ensure reliable morphological
classifications, and apply completeness cuts of M_v <= -19.3 and -20.6. More
than 40% of the bars that we detect have semi major axes a<0.5" and would be
easily missed in earlier surveys without the small PSF of ACS. The bars that we
can reliably detect are fairly strong (with ellipticities e>=0.4) and have a in
the range ~1.2-13 kpc. We find that the optical fraction of such strong bars
remains at ~(30% +- 6%) from the present-day out to look-back times of 2-6 Gyr
(z~0.2-0.7) and 6-8 Gyr (z~0.7-1.0); it certainly shows no sign of a drastic
decline at z>0.7. Our findings of a large and similar bar fraction at these
three epochs favor scenarios in which cold gravitationally unstable disks are
already in place by z~1, and where on average bars have a long lifetime (well
above 2 Gyr). The distributions of structural bar properties in the two slices
are, however, not statistically identical and therefore allow for the
possibility that the bar strengths and sizes may evolve over time.