Horizontally oriented plates in clouds generate a sharp specular reflectance
signal in the glint direction, often referred to as "subsun". This signal
(amplitude and width) may be used to analyze the relative area fraction of
oriented plates in the cloud top layer and their characteristic tilt angle to
the horizontal. We make use of spaceborne measurements from the POLDER
instrument to provide a statistical analysis of these parameters. More than
half of the clouds show a detectable maximum reflectance in the glint
direction, although this maximum may be rather faint. The typical effective
fraction (area weighted) of oriented plates in clouds lies between 10-3 and
10-2. For those oriented plates, the characteristic tilt angle is less than 1
degree in most cases. These low fractions imply that the impact of oriented
plates on the cloud albedo is insignificant. The largest proportion of clouds
with horizontally oriented plates is found in the range 500-700 hPa, in
agreement with typical in situ observation of plates in clouds. We propose a
simple aerodynamic model that accounts for the orienting torque of the flow as
the plate falls under its own gravity and the disorienting effects of Brownian
motion and atmospheric turbulence. The model indicates that the horizontal
plate diameters are in the range 0.1 to a few millimeters. For such sizes,
Brownian forces have a negligible impact on the plate orientation. On the other
hand, typical levels of atmospheric turbulence lead to tilt angles that are
similar to those estimated from the glint observation.