The bifurcated emission component (BEC) in the radio profile of the
millisecond pulsar J1012+5307 can be interpreted as the signature of the
curvature radiation beam polarised orthogonally to the plane of electron
trajectory. Since the beam is intrinsically narrow (~1 deg), the associated
emission region must be small for the observed BEC to avoid smearing out by
spatial convolution. We estimate whether the energy available in the stream is
sufficient to produce such a bright feature in the averaged profile. The energy
considerations become complicated by the angular constraints imposed by the
width of the microbeam, and by the specific spectrum of the BEC which is found
to have the spectral index xi ~ -0.9 in comparison to the index of xi ~ -2 for
the total profile. For typical parameters, the luminosity of the BEC is
determined to be 4 10^{25} erg/s, whereas the maximum-possible
beam-size-limited power of the stream is L_max ~ 2 10^{29} erg/s. This implies
the minimum energy-conversion efficiency of eta ~ 2 10^{-4}. The BEC's
luminosity does not exceed any absolute limits of energetics, in particular, it
is smaller than the power of primary electron and/or secondary plasma stream.
However, the implied efficiency of energy transfer into the radio band is
extreme if the coherently emitting charge-separated plasma density is limited
to the Goldreich-Julian value. This suggests that the bifurcated shape of the
BEC has macroscopic origin, however, several uncertainties (eg. the dipole
inclination and spectral shape) make this conclusion not firm.