Based on a sample of 1114 flares observed simultaneously in hard X-rays (HXR)
by the BATSE instrument and in soft X-rays (SXR) by GOES, we studied several
aspects of the Neupert effect and its interpretation in the frame of the
electron-beam-driven evaporation model. In particular, we investigated the time
differences ($\Delta t$) between the maximum of the SXR emission and the end of
the HXR emission, which are expected to occur at almost the same time.
Furthermore, we performed a detailed analysis of the SXR peak flux -- HXR
fluence relationship for the complete set of events, as well as separately for
subsets of events which are likely compatible/incompatibe with the timing
expectations of the Neupert effect. The distribution of the time differences
reveals a pronounced peak at $\Delta t = 0$. About half of the events show a
timing behavior which can be considered to be consistent with the expectations
from the Neupert effect. For these events, a high correlation between the SXR
peak flux and the HXR fluence is obtained, indicative of electron-beam-driven
evaporation. However, there is also a significant fraction of flares (about one
fourth), which show strong deviations from $\Delta t = 0$, with a prolonged
increase of the SXR emission distinctly beyond the end of the HXR emission.
These results suggest that electron-beam-driven evaporation plays an important
role in solar flares. Yet, in a significant fraction of events, there is also
clear evidence for the presence of an additional energy transport mechanism
other than the nonthermal electron beams, where the relative contribution is
found to vary with the flare importance.