Suzaku observations of the blazar OJ 287 were performed in 2007 April 10--13
and November 7--9. They correspond to a quiescent and a flaring state,
respectively. The X-ray spectra can be well described with single power-law
models in both exposures. The derived X-ray photon index and the flux density
at 1 keV were found to be Gamma = 1.65 +- 0.02 and S_{1 keV} = 215 +- 5 nJy, in
the quiescent state. In the flaring state, the source exhibited a harder X-ray
spectrum (Gamma = 1.50 +- 0.01) with a nearly doubled X-ray flux density S_{1
keV} = 404^{+6}_{-5} nJy. Moreover, significant hard X-ray signals were
detected up to ~ 27 keV. In cooperation with the Suzaku, simultaneous radio,
optical, and very-high-energy gamma-ray observations were performed with the
Nobeyama Millimeter Array, the KANATA telescope, and the MAGIC telescope,
respectively. The radio and optical fluxes in the flaring state (3.04 +- 0.46
Jy and 8.93 +- 0.05 mJy at 86.75 Hz and in the V-band, respectively) were found
to be higher by a factor of 2--3 than those in the quiescent state (1.73 +-
0.26 Jy and 3.03 +- 0.01 mJy at 86.75 Hz and in the V-band, respectively). No
notable gamma-ray events were detected in either observation. The spectral
energy distribution indicated that the X-ray spectrum was dominated by inverse
Compton radiation in both observations, while synchrotron radiation exhibited a
spectral cutoff around the optical frequency. Furthermore, no significant
difference in the synchrotron cutoff frequency was found between the quiescent
and flaring states. According to a simple synchrotron self-Compton model, the
change of the spectral energy distribution is due to an increase in the energy
density of electrons with small changes of both the magnetic field strength and
the maximum Lorentz factor of electrons.