While the {\it Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager} (HMI) onboard the {\it Solar
Dynamics Observatory} (SDO) provides Doppler velocity [$V$], continuum
intensity [$I_C$], and line-depth [$Ld$] observations, each of which is
sensitive to the five-minute acoustic spectrum, the {\it Atmospheric Imaging
Array} (AIA) also observes at wavelengths -- specifically the 1600 and 1700
Angstrom bands -- that are partly formed in the upper photosphere and have good
sensitivity to acoustic modes. In this article we consider the characteristics
of the spatio--temporal Fourier spectra in AIA and HMI observables for a
15-degree region around NOAA Active Region 11072. We map the
spatio--temporal-power distribution for the different observables and the HMI
Line Core [$I_L$], or Continuum minus Line Depth, and the phase and coherence
functions for selected observable pairs, as a function of position and
frequency. Five-minute oscillation power in all observables is suppressed in
the sunspot and also in plage areas. Above the acoustic cut-off frequency, the
behaviour is more complicated: power in HMI $I_C$ is still suppressed in the
presence of surface magnetic fields, while power in HMI $I_L$ and the AIA bands
is suppressed in areas of surface field but enhanced in an extended area around
the active region, and power in HMI $V$ is enhanced in a narrow zone around
strong-field concentrations and suppressed in a wider surrounding area. The
relative phase of the observables, and their cross-coherence functions, are
also altered around the active region. These effects may help us to understand
the interaction of waves and magnetic fields in the different layers of the
photosphere, and will need to be taken into account in multi-wavelength local
helioseismic analysis of active regions.