We introduce STECKMAP (STEllar Content and Kinematics via Maximum A
Posteriori), a method to recover the kinematical properties of a galaxy
simultaneously with its stellar content from integrated light spectra. It is an
extension of STECMAP (astro-ph/0505209) to the general case where the velocity
distribution of the underlying stars is also unknown.
 %and can be used as is for the analysis of large sets of data. The
reconstructions of the stellar age distribution, the age-metallicity relation,
and the Line-Of-Sight Velocity Distribution (LOSVD) are all non-parametric,
i.e. no specific shape is assumed. The only a propri we use are positivity and
the requirement that the solution is smooth enough. The smoothness parameter
can be set by GCV according to the level of noise in the data in order to avoid
overinterpretation. We use single stellar populations (SSP) from PEGASE-HR
(R=10000, lambda lambda = 4000-6800 Angstrom, Le Borgne et al. 2004) to test
the method through realistic simulations. Non-Gaussianities in LOSVDs are
reliably recovered with SNR as low as 20 per 0.2 Angstrom pixel. It turns out
that the recovery of the stellar content is not degraded by the simultaneous
recovery of the kinematic distribution, so that the resolution in age and error
estimates given in Ocvirk et al. 2005 remain appropriate when used with
STECKMAP. We also explore the case of age-dependent kinematics (i.e. when each
stellar component has its own LOSVD). We separate the bulge and disk components
of an idealized simplified spiral galaxy in integrated light from high quality
pseudo data (SNR=100 per pixel, R=10000), and constrain the kinematics (mean
projected velocity, projected velocity dispersion) and age of both components.