We present the results of a search for wide binary systems among 783 members
of three nearby young associations: Taurus-Auriga, Chamaeleon I, and two
subgroups of Upper Scorpius. Near-infrared (JHK) imagery from 2MASS was
analyzed to search for wide (1-30"; ~150-4500 AU) companions to known
association members, using color-magnitude cuts to reject likely background
stars. We identify a total of 131 candidate binary companions with colors
consistent with physical association, of which 39 have not been identified
previously in the literature. Our results suggest that the wide binary
frequency is a function of both mass and environment, with significantly higher
frequencies among high-mass stars than lower-mass stars and in the T
associations than in the OB association. We discuss the implications for wide
binary formation and conclude that the environmental dependence is not a direct
result of stellar density or total association mass, but instead might depend
on another environmental parameter like the gas temperature. We also analyze
the mass ratio distribution as a function of mass and find that it agrees with
the distribution for field stars to within the statistical uncertainties. The
binary populations in these associations generally follow the empirical
mass-maximum separation relation observed for field binaries, but we have found
one candidate low-mass system (USco-160611.9-193532; Mtot~0.4 Msun) which has a
projected separation (10.8"; 1550 AU) much larger than the suggested limit for
its mass. (Abridged)