Extensive light and colour curves for the Type Ia supernova SN 2002er are
presented as part of the European Supernova Collaboration. We have collected
UBVRI photometry from ten different telescopes covering the phases from 7 days
before until 619 days after maximum light. Corrections for the different
instrumental systems and the non-thermal spectrum of the supernova
(S-corrections) have been applied. With the densely sampled light curves we can
make detailed comparisons to other well-observed objects. SN 2002er most
closely resembles SN 1996X after maximum, but clearly shows a different colour
evolution before peak light and a stronger shoulder in V and R bands compared
to other well-observed SNe Ia. In particular, the rise time appears to be
longer than what is expected from rise-time vs.decline-rate relation. We use
several methods to determine the reddening towards SN 2002er based on the
colour evolution at near peak and at late phases. The uvoir (bolometric) light
curve shows great similarity with SN 1996X, but also indications of a higher
luminosity, longer rise time and a more pronounced shoulder 25 days past
maximum. The interpretation of the light curves was done with two independent
light curve codes. Both find that given the luminosity of SN 2002er the 56Ni
mass exceeds 0.6 Msun with prefered values near 0.7 Msun. Uncertainties in the
exact distance to SN 2002er are the most serious limitation of this
measurement. The light curve modelling also indicates a high level of mixing of
the nickel in the explosion of SN 2002er.