The circadian rhythm in the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI)
was assessed in three hundred and twenty three patients admitted with AMI
during the two-year period June 1992 to May 1994. The influence of the
following meteorological, solar-geophysical and cosmic parameters in the
causation of an infarct was also considered : (1) surface pressure (2) maximum
temperature (3) minimum temperature (4) relative humidity (5) cosmic ray index
(6) geomagnetic aa index (7) solar flares and (8) sunspot number. A well
pronounced diurnal variability in AMI with a peak in the morning hours (6-12
a.m.) was seen. Further analysis of the data by considering one-hour periods
revealed the presence of a smaller evening (10 p.m.) increase in incidence,
i.e., the existence of a bimodal circadian rhythm. The simultaneous occurrence
of the well documented semi-diurnal rhythm in surface pressure and incidence of
acute myocardial infarction were evident. This may be one of the factors
involved in the causation of the smaller evening peak-the reasons for which
were unclear till now. Month-to-month variation in surface pressure was also
found to be significantly correlated with incidence of acute myocardial
infarction. Recognition of a circadian rhythm in the onset of AMI suggests the
need for enhanced pharmacological protection during the vulnerable periods.
Significant correlations were also found between monthly incidence of AMI and
month-to-month variation of cosmic ray index and solar flare counts. The
pattern of incidence of AMI was seen to be modified by full moon and new moon.
There was no association between maximum temperature, minimum temperature or
relative humidity and incidence of AMI.