Based on a nonabelian generalization of electric-magnetic duality, the
Dualized Standard Model (DSM) suggests a natural explanation for exactly 3
generations of fermions as the `dual colour' $\widetilde{SU}(3)$ symmetry
broken in a particular manner. The resulting scheme then offers on the one hand
a fermion mass hierarchy and a perturbative method for calculating the mass and
mixing parameters of the Standard Model fermions, and on the other testable
predictions for new phenomena ranging from rare meson decays to ultra-high
energy cosmic rays. Calculations to 1-loop order gives, at the cost of
adjusting only 3 real parameters, values for the following quantities all
(except one) in very good agreement with experiment: the quark CKM matrix
elements $|V_{rs}|$, the lepton CKM matrix elements $|U_{rs}|$, and the second
generation masses $m_c, m_s, m_\mu$. This means, in particular, that it gives
near maximal mixing $U_{\mu3}$ between $\nu_\mu$ and $\nu_\tau$ as observed by
SuperKamiokande, Kamiokande and Soudan, while keeping small the corresponding
quark angles $V_{cb}, V_{ts}$. In addition, the scheme gives (i) rough
order-of-magnitude estimates for the masses of the lowest generation, (ii)
predictions for low energy FCNC effects such as $K_L \to e \mu$, (iii) a
possible explanation for the long-standing puzzle of air showers beyond the GZK
cut-off. All these together, however, still represent but a portion of the
possible physical consequences derivable from the DSM scheme the majority of
which are yet to be explored.