We present a perturbative calculation of finite-size effects near $T_c$ of
the $\phi^4$ lattice model in a $d$-dimensional cubic geometry of size $L$ with
periodic boundary conditions for $d > 4$. The structural differences between
the $\phi^4$ lattice theory and the $\phi^4$ field theory found previously in
the spherical limit are shown to exist also for a finite number of components
of the order parameter. The two-variable finite-size scaling functions of the
field theory are nonuniversal whereas those of the lattice theory are
independent of the nonuniversal model parameters.One-loop results for
finite-size scaling functions are derived. Their structure disagrees with the
single-variable scaling form of the lowest-mode approximation for any finite
$\xi/L$ where $\xi$ is the bulk correlation length. At $T_c$, the large-$L$
behavior becomes lowest-mode like for the lattice model but not for the
field-theoretic model. Characteristic temperatures close to $T_c$ of the
lattice model, such as $T_{max}(L)$ of the maximum of the susceptibility
$\chi$, are found to scale asymptotically as $T_c - T_{max}(L) \sim L^{-d/2}$,
in agreement with previous Monte Carlo (MC) data for the five-dimensional Ising
model. We also predict $\chi_{max} \sim L^{d/2}$ asymptotically. On a
quantitative level, the asymptotic amplitudes of this large -$L$ behavior close
to $T_c$ have not been observed in previous MC simulations at $d = 5$ because
of nonnegligible finite-size terms $\sim L^{(4-d)/2}$ caused by the
inhomogeneous modes. These terms identify the possible origin of a significant
discrepancy between the lowest-mode approximation and previous MC data. MC data
of larger systems would be desirable for testing the magnitude of the
$L^{(4-d)/2}$ and $L^{4-d}$ terms predicted by our theory.