[abridged] We investigate the velocity structure of protostellar cores that
result from non-magnetic numerical models of the gravoturbulent fragmentation
of molecular cloud material. A large fraction of the cores analyzed are
``quiescent'', and more than half are identified as ``coherent''. The fact that
dynamically evolving cores in highly supersonic turbulent flows can be
quiescent may be understood because cores lie at the stagnation points of
convergent turbulent flows, where compression is at a maximum, and relative
velocity differences are at a minimum. The coherence may be due to an
observational effect related to the length and concentration of the material
contributing to the line. The velocity dispersion of the our cores often has
its local maximum at small offsets from the column density maximum, suggesting
that the core is the dense region behind a shock. Such a configuration is often
found in observations of molecular cloud cores, and argues in favor of the
gravoturbulent scenario of stellar birth as it is not expected in
star-formation models based on magnetic mediation. Cores with collapsed objects
tend to be near equipartition between their gravitational and kinetic energies,
while cores without collapsed objects tend to be gravitationally unbound,
suggesting that gravitational collapse occurs immediately after gravity becomes
dominant. Finally, cores in simulations driven at large scales are more
frequently quiescent and coherent, and have more realistic ratios of $M_{\rm
vir}/M$, supporting the notion that molecular cloud turbulence is driven at
large scales.