This paper includes two parts. The first is to present the spectral energy
distributions (SEDs) of 49 globular cluster (GC) X-ray sources in the BATC 13
intermediate-band filters from 3800 to 10000 A, and identify 8 unidentified
X-ray sources in M31. Using the X-ray data of Einstein observation from 1979 to
1980, ROSAT HRI observation in 1990, Chandra HRC and ACIS-I observations from
1999 to 2001, and the BATC optical survey from 1995 to 1999, we find 49 GC
X-ray sources and 8 new unidentified X-ray sources in the BATC M31 field. By
analyzing SEDs and FWHMs, 4 of the 8 X-ray sources may be GC candidates. The
second is to present some statistical relationships about 62 GC X-ray sources,
of which 58 are already known, and 4 are identified in this paper. The
distribution of M31 GC X-ray sources' V mags is bimodal, with peaks at m_v =
15.65 and m_v = 17.89, which is different from the distribution of GC
candidates. The distribution of B-V color shows that,the GC X-ray sources seem
to be associated preferentially with the redder GCs, in agreement with the
previous results. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test shows that the maximum value of the
absolute difference of B-V distributions of GC X-ray sources and GCs is
D_{max}=0.181, and the probability P=0.068 which means we can reject the
hypothesis that the two distributions are the same at the 90.0% confidence
level. In the end, we study the correlation between X-ray luminosity (0.3-10
keV) and the optical luminosity (in V band) of the GC X-ray sources in M31, and
find that there exits a weak relationship with the linear correlation
coefficient r = 0.36 at the confidence level of 98.0%.