The aim of this paper is to present a generalization of Lunn-Senior's
mathematical model of isomerism in organic chemistry. The main idea of Lunn and
Senior is that if the type of isomerism is fixed, a molecule with a fixed
skeleton and d univalent substituents has a symmetry group $W\leq S_d$ which
is generally not the molecule's 3-dimensional symmetry group. The unit
character of W induces a representation of the symmetric group $S_d$ which
governs the combinatorics of the isomers of the given molecule. Lunn-Senior's
thesis is that certain non-negative integers established by this representation
are upper boundaries of the corresponding numbers, yielded by the experiment
(and often coincide with them). Moreover, the contributors define (in a particular
case) a partial order among the objects of the model, such that some simple
substitution reactions correspond to inequalities. These two groups of data
determine the group W, and produce so called "type properties" of the
molecule (properties which do not depend on the nature of the univalent
substituents). Our hypothesis is that if we replace the unit character of $W$
by any one-dimensional character of $W$ (thus we count only a part of the
isomers - those having a maximum property), we also get a type property of the
molecule. An instance of that is the inventory of the stereoisomers called
chiral pairs. The formalism can be generalized naturally and produces some
preliminary chemical results. Especially the partial order is defined and
studied in the general case and indicates the possible genetic relations among
the corresponding molecules. An important result of E. Ruch which connects the
dominance order among partitions and the existence of chiral pairs is obtained
as a consequence of a more general statement.