The article considers the successful implementation of relativistic
equation-of-motion coupled clus- ter method for the electron attachment problem
(EA-EOMCC) at the level of single- and double- excitation approximation. The
Dirac-Coulomb Hamiltonian is used to generate the single particle orbitals and
two-body matrix elements. The implemented relativistic EA-EOMCC method is em-
ployed to calculate ionization potential values of alkali metal atoms (Li, Na,
K, Rb, Cs, Fr) and the vertical electron affinity values of LiX (X=H, F, Cl,
Br), NaY (Y=H, F, Cl) starting from their closed-shell configuration. We have
taken C 2 as an example to understand what should be the na- ture of the basis
and cut off in the orbital energies that can be used for the correlation
calculations without loosing a considerable amount of accuracy in the computed
values. Both four-component and X2C calculations are done for all the opted
systems to understand the effect of relativity in our calculations as well as
to justify the fact that the relativistic effects and electron correlation are
intertwined. To test the performance of the newly implemented EA-EOMCC method,
we have compared our atomic results with the values from the NIST database and
our results are found to be well within 0.6% with the standard NIST values.
Therefore, by looking at the accuracy in the atomic results, we can conclude
that the accuracy in the molecular calculations will also be fair enough and
these computed values can be used as a reliable standard to benchmark the
capability of other theoretical methods.