Radial velocity observations of the F8 V star Upsilon Andromedae taken at
Lick and at Whipple Observatories have revealed evidence of three periodicities
in the line-of-sight velocity of the star. These periodicities have been
interpreted as evidence for at least three low mass companions (LMCs) revolving
around Upsilon Andromedae. The mass and orbital parameters inferred for these
companions raise questions about the dynamical stability of the system. We
report here results from our independent analysis of the published radial
velocity data as well as new unpublished data taken at Lick Observatory. Our
results confirm the finding of three periods in the data. Our best fits to the
data, on the assumption that these periods arise from the gravitational
perturbations of companions in keplerian orbits, is also generally in
agreement, but with some differences, from the earlier findings. We find that
the available data do not constrain well the orbital eccentricity of the middle
companion in a three-companion model of the data. We also find that in order
for our best-fit model to the Lick data to be dynamically stable over the
lifetime of the star (~2 billion years), the system must have a mean
inclination to the plane of the sky greater than 13 degrees. The corresponding
minimum inclination for the best fit to the Whipple data set is 19 degrees.
These values imply that the maximum mass for the outer companion can be no
greater than about 20 Jupiter masses. Our analysis of the stability of the
putative systems also places constraints on the relative inclinations of the
orbital planes of the companions. We comment on global versus local (i.e.,
method of steepest descent) means of finding best-fit orbits from radial
velocity data sets.