We derive the Ornstein-Zernike equation for molecular crystals of axially
symmetric particles and apply the Percus-Yevick approximation to this system.
The one-particle orientational distribution function has a nontrivial
dependence on the orientation and is needed as an input. Despite some
differences, the Ornstein-Zernike equation for molecular crystals has a similar
structure as for liquids. We solve both equations for hard ellipsoids on a sc
lattice. Compared to molecular liquids, the tensorial orientational correlators
exhibit less structure. However, depending on the lengths a and b of the
rotation axis and the perpendicular axes of the ellipsoids, different behavior
is found. For oblate and prolate ellipsoids with b >= 0.35 (units of the
lattice constant), damped oscillations in distinct directions of direct space
occur for some correlators. They manifest themselves in some correlators in
reciprocal space as a maximum at the Brillouin zone edge, accompanied by maxima
at the zone center for other correlators. The oscillations indicate alternating
orientational fluctuations, while the maxima at the zone center originate from
nematic-like orientational fluctuations. For a <= 2.5 and b <= 0.35, the
oscillations are weaker. For a >= 3.0 and b <= 0.35, no oscillations occur any
longer. For many of the correlators in reciprocal space, an increase of a at
fixed b leads to a divergence at the zone center q = 0, consistent with
nematic-like long range fluctuations, and for some oblate and prolate systems
with b ~< 1.0 a simultaneous tendency to divergence of few other correlators at
the zone edge is observed. Comparison with correlators from MC simulations
shows satisfactory agreement. We also obtain a phase boundary for
order-disorder transitions.