(Abridged) We report on HST FOS observations of the double QSO HS 1216+5032
AB (z(A)=1.455; z(B)=1.451, and angular separation theta=9 arcsec). An unusual
broad-absorption-line (BAL) system is observed only in the B component: maximum
outflow velocity of ~5000 km/s; probably a mixture of broad and narrow
components. Observed ions are: HI, CII, CIII, NIII, NV, OVI, and possibly SIV
and SVI. We also discuss two outstanding intervening systems: (1) a complex CIV
system at z=0.72 of similar strength in A and B, with a velocity span of 1500
km/s; and (2) a possible strong MgII system at z=0.04 observed in B only.
  Assuming HS 1216+5032 is a binary QSO, the size of Ly-alpha forest clouds is
constrained using S~ 80 /h_50 kpc at redshifts between z=1.15 and 1.45. Four
Ly-alpha systems not associated with metal lines and producing lines with
W_0>0.17 AA are observed in both spectra, while five appear in only one
spectrum. This sample, although scarce due to the redshift path blocked out by
the BALs in B, allows us to place upper limits on the transverse cloud sizes.
Modelling the absorbers as non-evolving spheres, a maximum-likelihood analysis
yields a most probable cloud diameter D=256 /h_50 kpc and 2 sigma bounds of
172<D<896 /h_50 kpc. If the clouds are modelled as filamentary structures, the
same analysis yields lower transverse dimensions by a factor of two.
Independently of the maximum-likelihood approach, the equivalent width
differences provide evidence for coherent structures. The suggestion that the
size of Ly-alpha forest clouds increases with decreasing redshift is not
confirmed.