The Deep Extragalactic Exploratory Probe (DEEP) is a multi-phase research
program dedicated to the study of the formation and evolution of galaxies and
of large scale structure in the distant Universe. This paper describes the
first five-year phase, denoted DEEP1. A series of ten DEEP1 papers will discuss
a range of scientific topics (e.g., the study of photometric and spectral
properties of a general distant galaxy survey, the evolution observed in galaxy
populations of varied morphologies). The observational basis for these studies
is the Groth Survey Strip field, a 127 square arcminute region which has been
observed with the Hubble Space Telescope in both broad I-band and V-band
optical filters and with the Low Resolution Imaging Spectrograph on the Keck
Telescopes. Catalogs of photometric and structural parameters have been
constructed for 11,547 galaxies and stars at magnitudes brighter than 29, and
spectroscopy has been conducted for a magnitude-color weighted subsample of 818
objects. We evaluate three independent techniques for constructing an imaging
catalog for the field from the HST data, and discuss the depth and sampling of
the resultant catalogs. The selection of the spectroscopic subsample is
discussed, and we describe the multifaceted approach taken to prioritizing
objects of interest for a variety of scientific subprograms. A series of Monte
Carlo simulations then demonstrates that the spectroscopic subsample can be
adequately modeled as a simple function of magnitude and color cuts in the
imaging catalog.