Given a set of pairwise comparisons, the classical ranking problem computes a
single ranking that best represents the preferences of all users. In this
paper, we study the problem of inferring individual preferences, arising in the
context of making personalized recommendations. In particular, we assume that
there are $n$ users of $r$ types; users of the same type provide similar
pairwise comparisons for $m$ items according to the Bradley-Terry model. We
propose an efficient algorithm that accurately estimates the individual
preferences for almost all users, if there are $r \max \{m, n\}\log m \log^2 n$
pairwise comparisons per type, which is near optimal in sample complexity when
$r$ only grows logarithmically with $m$ or $n$. Our algorithm has three steps:
%first, for each user, project its $\binom{m}{2}$-dimensional vector of
pairwise comparisons %onto an $m$-dimensional linear subspace to get the
\nb{so-called: Bruce suggests delete it and change the whole sentence to:
first, for each user, compute the \emph{net-win} vector which is a projection
of its $\binom{m}{2}$-dimensional vector of pairwise comparisons onto an
$m$-dimensional linear subspace; second, cluster the users based on the net-win
vectors; third, estimate a single preference for each cluster separately. The
net-win vectors are much less noisy than the high dimensional vectors of
pairwise comparisons and clustering is more accurate after the projection as
confirmed by numerical experiments. Moreover, we show that, when a cluster is
only approximately correct, the maximum likelihood estimation for the
Bradley-Terry model is still close to the true preference.