We introduce a Monte Carlo model of nonlinear diffusive shock acceleration
allowing for the generation of large-amplitude magnetic turbulence. The model
is the first to include strong wave generation, efficient particle acceleration
to relativistic energies in nonrelativistic shocks, and thermal particle
injection in an internally self-consistent manner. We find that the upstream
magnetic field can be amplified by large factors and show that this
amplification depends strongly on the ambient Alfven Mach number. We also show
that in the nonlinear model large increases in the magnetic field do not
necessarily translate into a large increase in the maximum particle momentum a
particular shock can produce, a consequence of high momentum particles
diffusing in the shock precursor where the large amplified field converges to
the low ambient value. To deal with the field growth rate in the regime of
strong fluctuations, we extend to strong turbulence a parameterization that is
consistent with the resonant quasi-linear growth rate in the weak turbulence
limit. We believe our parameterization spans the maximum and minimum range of
the fluctuation growth and, within these limits, we show that the nonlinear
shock structure, acceleration efficiency, and thermal particle injection rates
depend strongly on the yet to be determined details of wave growth in strongly
turbulent fields. The most direct application of our results will be to
estimate magnetic fields amplified by strong cosmic-ray modified shocks in
supernova remnants.