The construction of a well tuned probability distributions is illustrated in
synthetic way, these probability distributions produce faithful realizations of
the impact point distributions for particles in silicon strip detector. Their
use for track fitting shows a drastic improvements of a factor two, for the low
noise case, and a factor three, for the high noise case, respect to the
standard approach. The tracks are well reconstructed even in presence of hits
with large errors, with a surprising effect of hit discarding. The applications
illustrated are simulations of the PAMELA tracker, but other type of trackers
can be handled similarly. The probability distributions are calculated for the
center of gravity algorithms, and they are very different from gaussian
probabilities. These differences are crucial to accurately reconstruct tracks
with high error hits and to produce the effective discarding of the too noisy
hits (outliers). The similarity of our distributions with the Cauchy
distribution forced us to abandon the standard deviation for our comparisons
and instead use the full width at half maximum. A set of mathematical
approaches must be developed for these applications, some of them are standard
in wide sense, even if very complex. One is essential and, in its absence, all
the others are useless. Therefore, in this paper, we report the details of this
critical approach. It extracts physical properties of the detectors, and allows
the insertion of the functional dependence from the impact point in the
probability distributions. Other papers will be dedicated to the remaining
parts.