Temperature-dependent inter-plane resistivity, $\rho _c(T)$, was measured in
hole-doped iron-arsenide superconductor (Ba$_{1-x}$K$_x$)Fe$_2$As$_2$ over a
doping range from parent compound to optimal doping $T_c\approx 38~K$, $0\leq x
\leq 0.34$. Measurements were undertaken on high-quality single crystals grown
from FeAs flux. The coupled magnetic/structural transition at $T_{SM}$ leads to
clear accelerated decrease of $\rho_c(T)$ on cooling in samples with $T_c
<$26~K ($x <0.25$). This decrease in hole-doped material is in notable contrast
to an increase in $\rho_c(T)$ in the electron-doped Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$)Fe
$_2$As$_2$ and iso-electron substituted BaFe$_2$(As$_{1-x}$P$_x$)$_2$. The
$T_{SM}$ decreases very sharply with doping, dropping from $T_s$=71~K to zero
on increase of $T_c$ from approximately 25 to 27~K. The $\rho_c(T)$ becomes
$T$-linear close to optimal doping. The broad crossover maximum in $\rho_c(T)$,
found in the parent BaFe$_2$As$_2$ at around $T_{max} \sim$200~K, shifts to
higher temperature $\sim$250~K with doping $x$=0.34. The maximum shows clear
correlation with the broad crossover feature found in the temperature-dependent
in-plane resistivity $\rho_a(T)$. The doping evolution of $T_{max}$ in
(Ba$_{1-x}$K$_x$)Fe$_2$As$_2$ is in notable contrast with both rapid
suppression of $T_{max}$ found in Ba(Fe$_{1-x}TM_x$)$_2$As$_2$
($TM$=Co,Rh,Ni,Pd) and its rapid increase BaFe$_2$(As$_{1-x}$P$_x$)$_2$. This
observation suggest that pseudogap features are much stronger in hole-doped
than in electron-doped iron-based superconductors, revealing significant
electron-hole doping asymmetry similar to the cuprates. This paper replaces:
cond-mat:1106.0533.