We present new spectroscopic observations of the He I $\lambda$10830 line in
R Coronae Borealis (RCB) stars which provide the first strong evidence that
most, if not all, RCB stars have winds. It has long been suggested that when
dust forms around an RCB star, radiation pressure accelerates the dust away
from the star, dragging the gas along with it. The new spectra show that nine
of the ten stars observed have P-Cygni or asymmetric blue-shifted profiles in
the He I $\lambda$10830 line. In all cases, the He I line indicates a mass
outflow - with a range of intensity and velocity. Around the RCB stars, it is
likely that this state is populated by collisional excitation rather than
photoionization/recombination. The line profiles have been modeled with an SEI
code to derive the optical depth and the velocity field of the helium gas. The
results show that the typical RCB wind has a steep acceleration with a terminal
velocity of \Vinf = 200-350 \kms and a column density of N $\sim10^{12}$
cm$^{-2}$ in the He I $\lambda$10830 line. There is a possible relationship
between the lightcurve of an RCB star and its He I $\lambda$10830 profile.
Stars which have gone hundreds of days with no dust-formation episodes tend to
have weaker He I features. The unusual RCB star, V854 Cen, does not follow this
trend, showing little or no He I absorption despite high mass-loss activity.
The He I $\lambda$10830 line in R CrB itself, which has been observed at four
epochs between 1978 and 2001, seems to show a P-Cygni or asymmetric
blue-shifted profile at all times whether it is in decline or at maximum light.