We analyze the dynamics of gas-dust coupling in the presence of stellar
radiation pressure in circumstellar gas disks, which are in a transitional
stage between the gas-dominated, optically thick, primordial nebulae, and the
dust-dominated, optically thin Vega-type disks. Dust undergo radial migration,
seeking a stable equilibrium orbit in corotation with gas. The migration of
dust gives rise to radial fractionation of dust and creates a variety of
possible observed disk morphologies, which we compute by considering the
equilibrium between the dust production and the dust-dust collisions removing
particles from their equilibrium orbits. Sand-sized and larger grains are
distributed throughout most of the gas disk, with concentration near the gas
pressure maximum in the inner disk. Smaller grains (typically in the range of
10 to 200 micron) concentrate in a prominent ring structure in the outer region
of the gas disk (presumably at radius 100 AU), where gas density is rapidly
declining with radius. The width and density, as well as density contrast of
the dust ring with respect to the inner dust disk depend on the distribution of
gas. Our results open the prospect for deducing the distribution of gas in
circumstellar disks by observing their dust. We have qualitatively compared our
models with two observed transitional disks around HR 4796A and HD 141569A.
Dust migration can result in observation of a ring or a bimodal radial dust
distribution, possibly very similar to the ones produced by gap-opening
planet(s) embedded in the disk, or shepherding it from inside or outside. We
conclude that a convincing planet detection via dust imaging should include
specific non-axisymmetric structure following from the dynamical simulations of
perturbed disks.