To understand the sample-to-sample fluctuations in disorder-generated
multifractal patterns we investigate analytically as well as numerically the
statistics of high values of the simplest model - the ideal periodic $1/f$
Gaussian noise. By employing the thermodynamic formalism we predict the
characteristic scale and the precise scaling form of the distribution of number
of points above a given level. We demonstrate that the powerlaw forward tail of
the probability density, with exponent controlled by the level, results in an
important difference between the mean and the typical values of the counting
function. This can be further used to determine the typical threshold $x_m$ of
extreme values in the pattern which turns out to be given by
$x_m^{(typ)}=2-c\ln{\ln{M}}/\ln{M}$ with $c=3/2$. Such observation provides a
rather compelling explanation of the mechanism behind universality of $c$.
Revealed mechanisms are conjectured to retain their qualitative validity for a
broad class of disorder-generated multifractal fields. In particular, we
predict that the typical value of the maximum $p_{max}$ of intensity is to be
given by $-\ln{p_{max}} = \alpha_{-}\ln{M} +
\frac{3}{2f'(\alpha_{-})}\ln{\ln{M}} + O(1)$, where $f(\alpha)$ is the
corresponding singularity spectrum vanishing at $\alpha=\alpha_{-}>0$. For the
$1/f$ noise we also derive exact as well as well-controlled approximate
formulas for the mean and the variance of the counting function without
recourse to the thermodynamic formalism.