Angular momentum transport by internal magnetic fields is an important
ingredient for stellar interior models. In this paper we critically examine the
basic heuristic assumptions in the model of the Tayler-Spruit dynamo, which
describes how a pinch-type instability of a toroidal magnetic field in
differentially rotating stellar radiative zones may result in large-scale fluid
motion. We agree with prior published work both on the existence of the
instability and its nearly horizontal geometry for perturbations. However, the
approximations in the original Acheson dispersion relation are valid only for
small length scales, and we disagree that the dispersion relation can be
extrapolated to horizontal length scales of order the radius of the star. We
contend that dynamical effects, in particular angular momentum conservation,
limit the maximum horizontal length scale. We therefore present transport
coefficients for chemical mixing and angular momentum redistribution by
magnetic torques that are significantly different from previous published
values. The new magnetic viscosity is reduced by 2 to 3 orders of magnitude
compared to the old one, and we find that magnetic angular momentum transport
by this mechanism is very sensitive to gradients in the mean molecular weight.
The revised coefficients are more compatible with empirical constraints on the
timescale of core-envelope coupling in young stars than the previous ones.
However, solar models including only this mechanism possess a rapidly rotating
core, in contradiction with helioseismic data. (abridged)