These are the notes for a 5-lecture-course given at ESSLLI 2006 in Malaga,
Spain. The URL of the school is http://esslli2006.lcc.uma.es/ . This version
slightly differs from the one which has been distributed at the school because
typos have been removed and comments and suggestions by students have been
worked in. The course is intended to be introductory. That means no prior
knowledge of proof nets is required. However, the student should be familiar
with the basics of propositional logic, and should have seen formal proofs in
some formal deductive system (e.g., sequent calculus, natural deduction,
resolution, tableaux, calculus of structures, Frege-Hilbert-systems, ...). It
is probably helpful if the student knows already what cut elimination is, but
this is not strictly necessary. In these notes, I will introduce the concept of
``proof nets'' from the viewpoint of the problem of the identity of proofs. I
will proceed in a rather informal way. The focus will be more on presenting
ideas than on presenting technical details. The goal of the course is to give
the student an overview of the theory of proof nets and make the vast amount of
literature on the topic easier accessible to the beginner. For introducing the
basic concepts of the theory, I will in the first part of the course stick to
the unit-free multiplicative fragment of linear logic because of its rather
simple notion of proof nets. In the second part of the course we will see proof
nets for more sophisticated logics. This is a basic introduction into proof
nets from the perspective of the identity of proofs. We discuss how deductive
proofs can be translated into proof nets and what a correctness criterion is.