Sphere decoding (SD) is a promising detection strategy for multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) systems because it can achieve maximum-likelihood (ML)
detection performance with a reasonable complexity. The standard and most SD
algorithms operate on real valued systems. These real valued SDs (RV-SDs) are
known to be applicable to MIMO communication systems with only rectangular QAM
signal constellations. In addition to this restriction on applicable
constellations, RV-SDs are not suitable for VLSI implementations. Complex
valued SD (CV-SD) is a good SD candidate for its flexibility on the choice of
constellations and its efficiency in VLSI implementations. But, the low
complexity CV-SD algorithm for general two dimensional (2D) constellations is
not available, especially with the one that attains the ML performance. In this
paper, we present a low complexity CV-SD algorithm, referred to as Circular
Sphere Decoding (CSD) which is applicable to arbitrary 2D constellations. CSD
provides a new constraint test. This constraint test is carefully designed so
that the element-wise dependency is removed in the metric computation for the
test. As a result, the constraint test becomes simple to perform without
restriction on its constellation structure. By additionally employing this
simple test as a prescreening test, CSD reduces the complexity of the CV-SD
search. We show that the complexity reduction is significant while its ML
performance is not compromised. We also provide a powerful tool to estimate the
pruning capacity of any particular search tree. Using this tool, we propose the
Predict-And-Change (PAC) strategy which leads to a further considerable
complexity reduction in CSD.