We study the domain geometry during spinodal decomposition of a 50:50 binary
mixture in two dimensions. Extending arguments developed to treat non-conserved
coarsening, we obtain approximate analytic results for the distribution of
domain areas and perimeters during the dynamics. The main approximation is to
regard the interfaces separating domains as moving independently. While this is
true in the non-conserved case, it is not in the conserved one. Our results can
therefore be considered as a first-order approximation for the distributions.
In contrast to the celebrated Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner distribution of
structures of the minority phase in the limit of very small concentration, the
distribution of domain areas in the 50:50 case does not have a cut-off. Large
structures (areas or perimeters) retain the morphology of a percolative or
critical initial condition, for quenches from high temperatures or the critical
point respectively. The corresponding distributions are described by a $c
A^{-\tau}$ tail, where $c$ and $\tau$ are exactly known. With increasing time,
small structures tend to have a spherical shape with a smooth surface before
evaporating by diffusion. In this regime the number density of domains with
area $A$ scales as $A^{1/2}$, as in the Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner theory. The
threshold between the small and large regimes is determined by the
characteristic area, ${\rm A} \sim [\lambda(T) t]^{2/3}$. Finally, we study the
relation between perimeters and areas and the distribution of boundary lengths,
finding results that are consistent with the ones summarized above. We test our
predictions with Monte Carlo simulations of the 2d Ising Model.