We examine the role played by viscosity in the excitation of global
oscillation modes (both axisymmetric and non-axisymmetric) in accretion discs
around black holes using two-dimensional hydrodynamic simulations. The
turbulent viscosity is modeled by the $\alpha$-ansatz, with different equations
of state. We consider both discs with transonic radial inflows across the
innermost stable circular orbit, and stationary discs truncated by a reflecting
wall at their inner edge, representing a magnetosphere. In transonic discs,
viscosity can excite several types of global oscillation modes. These modes are
either axisymmetric with frequencies close to multiples of the maximum radial
epicyclic frequency $\kappa_\mathrm{max}$, non-axisymmetric with frequencies
close to multiples of of the innermost stable orbit frequency
$\Omega_\mathrm{ISCO}$, or hybrid modes whose frequencies are linear
combinations of these two frequencies. Small values of the viscosity parameter
$\alpha$ primarily produce non-axisymmetric modes, while axisymmetric modes
become dominant for large $\alpha$. The excitation of these modes may be
related to an instability of the sonic point, at which the radial infall speed
is equal to the sound speed of the gas. In discs with a reflective inner
boundary, we explore the effect of viscosity on trapped $p$-modes which are
intrinsically overstable due to the corotation resonance effect. The effect of
viscosity is either to reduce the growth rates of these modes, or to completely
suppress them and excite a new class of higher frequency modes. The latter
requires that the dynamic viscosity scales positively with the disc surface
density, indicating that it is a result of the classic viscous overstability
effect.