We present optical observations and Monte Carlo models of the dust coma,
tail, and trail structures of comet 22P/Kopff during the 2002 and 2009
apparitions. Dust loss rates, ejection velocities, and power-law size
distribution functions are derived as functions of the heliocentric distance
using pre- and post-perihelion imaging observations during both apparitions.
The 2009 post-perihelion images can be accurately fitted by an isotropic
ejection model. On the other hand, strong dust ejection anisotropies are
required to fit the near-coma regions at large heliocentric distances (both
inbound at $r_h$=2.5 AU and outbound at $r_h$=2.6 AU) for the 2002 apparition.
These asymmetries are compatible with a scenario where dust ejection is mostly
seasonally-driven, coming mainly from regions near subsolar latitudes at far
heliocentric distances inbound and outbound. At intermediate to near-perihelion
heliocentric distances, the outgassing would affect much more extended latitude
regions, the emission becoming almost isotropic near perihelion. We derived a
maximum dust production rate of 260 kg s$^{-1}$ at perihelion, and an averaged
production rate over one orbit of 40 kg s$^{-1}$. An enhanced emission rate,
accompanied also by a large ejection velocity, is predicted at $r_h>$2.5
pre-perihelion.
  The model has also been extended to the thermal infrared in order to be
applied to available trail observations with IRAS and ISO spacecrafts of this
comet. The modeled trail intensities are in good agreement with those
observations, which is remarkable taking into account that those data are
sensitive to dust ejection patterns corresponding to several orbits before the
2002 and 2009 apparitions.