Neutron-star (NS) merger simulations are conducted for 38 representative
microphysical descriptions of high-density matter in order to explore the
equation-of-state dependence of the postmerger ring-down phase. The formation
of a deformed, oscillating, differentially rotating very massive NS is the
typical outcome of the coalescence of two stars with 1.35 $M_{\odot}$ for most
candidate EoSs. The oscillations of this object imprint a pronounced peak in
the gravitational-wave (GW) spectra, which is used to characterize the emission
for a given model. The peak frequency of this postmerger GW signal correlates
very well with the radii of nonrotating NSs, and thus allows to constrain the
high-density EoS by a GW detection. In the case of 1.35-1.35 $M_{\odot}$
mergers the peak frequency scales particularly well with the radius of a NS
with 1.6 $M_{\odot}$, where the maximum deviation from this correlation is only
60 meters for fully microphysical EoSs which are compatible with NS
observations. Combined with the uncertainty in the determination of the peak
frequency it appears likely that a GW detection can measure the radius of a 1.6
$M_{\odot}$ NS with an accuracy of about 100 to 200 meters. We also uncover
relations of the peak frequency with the radii of nonrotating NSs with 1.35
$M_{\odot}$ or 1.8 $M_{\odot}$, with the radius or the central energy density
of the maximum-mass Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff configuration, and with the
pressure or sound speed at a fiducial rest-mass density of about twice nuclear
saturation density. Furthermore, it is found that a determination of the
dominant postmerger GW frequency can provide an upper limit for the maximum
mass of nonrotating NSs. The prospects for a detection of the postmerger GW
signal and a determination of the dominant GW frequency are estimated to be in
the range of 0.015 to 1.2 events per year with the upcoming Advanced LIGO
detector.