We present here CAFE, the Calar Alto Fiber-fed Echelle spectrograph, a new
instrument built at the Centro Astronomico Hispano Alem\'an (CAHA). CAFE is a
single fiber, high-resolution ($R\sim$70000) spectrograph, covering the
wavelength range between 3650-9800\AA. It was built on the basis of the common
design for Echelle spectrographs. Its main aim is to measure radial velocities
of stellar objects up to $V\sim$13-14 mag with a precision as good as a few
tens of $m s^{-1}$. To achieve this goal the design was simplified at maximum,
removing all possible movable components, the central wavelength is fixed, so
the wavelentgth coverage; no filter wheel, one slit and so on, with a
particular care taken in the thermal and mechanical stability. The instrument
is fully operational and publically accessible at the 2.2m telescope of the
Calar Alto Observatory.
  In this article we describe (i) the design, summarizing its manufacturing
phase; (ii) characterize the main properties of the instrument; (iii) describe
the reduction pipeline; and (iv) show the results from the first light and
commissioning runs. The preliminar results indicate that the instrument fulfill
the specifications and it can achieve the foreseen goals. In particular, they
show that the instrument is more efficient than anticipated, reaching a
$S/N\sim$20 for a stellar object as faint as $V\sim$14.5 mag in $\sim$2700s
integration time. The instrument is a wonderful machine for exoplanetary
research (by studying large samples of possible systems cotaining massive
planets), galactic dynamics (high precise radial velocities in moving groups or
stellar associations) or astrochemistry.