The star HD 52265 is a G0V metal-rich exoplanet-host star observed in the
seismology field of the CoRoT space telescope from November 2008 to March 2009.
The satellite collected 117 days of high-precision photometric data on this
star, showing that it presents solar-like oscillations. HD 52265 was also
observed in spectroscopy with the Narval spectrograph at the same epoch. We
characterise HD 52265 using both spectroscopic and seismic data. The
fundamental stellar parameters of HD 52265 were derived with the semi-automatic
software VWA, and the projected rotational velocity was estimated by fitting
synthetic profiles to isolated lines in the observed spectrum. The parameters
of the observed p modes were determined with a maximum-likelihood estimation.
We performed a global fit of the oscillation spectrum, over about ten radial
orders, for degrees l=0 to 2. We also derived the properties of the
granulation, and analysed a signature of the rotation induced by the
photospheric magnetic activity. Precise determinations of fundamental
parameters have been obtained: Teff = 6100 +- 60 K, log g = 4.35 +- 0.09, [M/H]
= 0.19 +- 0.05, as well as vsini = 3.6 +0.3 -1.0 km/s. We have measured a mean
rotation period P_rot = 12.3 +- 0.15 days, and find a signature of differential
rotation. The frequencies of 31 modes are reported in the range 1500-2550
micro-Hz. The large separation exhibits a clear modulation around the mean
value <Dnu> = 98.3 +- 0.1 micro-Hz. Mode widths vary with frequency along an
S-shape with a clear local maximum around 1800 micro-Hz. We deduce lifetimes
ranging between 0.5 and 3 days for these modes. Finally, we find a maximal
bolometric amplitude of about 3.96 +- 0.24 ppm for radial modes.