We have performed magnetization measurements at high magnetic fields of up to
53 T on single crystals of a uranium heavy-fermion compound U$_2$Zn$_{17}$
grown by the Bridgman method. In the antiferromagnetic state below the N\'{e}el
temperature $T_{\rm N}$ = 9.7 K, a metamagnetic transition is found at $H_c$
$\simeq$ 32 T for the field along the [11$\bar{2}$0] direction ($a$-axis). The
magnetic phase diagram for the field along the [11$\bar{2}$0] direction is
given. The magnetization curve shows a nonlinear increase at $H_m$ $\simeq$ 35
T in the paramagnetic state above $T_{\rm N}$ up to a characteristic
temperature $T_{{\chi}{\rm max}}$ where the magnetic susceptibility or
electrical resistivity shows a maximum value. This metamagnetic behavior of the
magnetization at $H_m$ is discussed in comparison with the metamagnetic
magnetism of the heavy-fermion superconductors UPt$_3$, URu$_2$Si$_2$, and
UPd$_2$Al$_3$. We have also carried out high-pressure resistivity measurement
on U$_2$Zn$_{17}$ using a diamond anvil cell up to 8.7 GPa. Noble gas argon was
used as a pressure-transmitting medium to ensure a good hydrostatic
environment. The N\'{e}el temperature $T_{\rm N}$ is almost
pressure-independent up to 4.7 GPa and starts to increase in the
higher-pressure region. The pressure dependences of the coefficient of the
$T^2$ term in the electrical resistivity $A$, the antiferromagnetic gap
$\Delta$, and the characteristic temperature $T_{{\rho}{\rm max}}$ are
discussed. It is found that the effect of pressure on the electronic states in
U$_2$Zn$_{17}$ is weak compared with those in the other heavy fermion
compounds.