We describe two complementary methods to quantify the degree of burial of
ligand and/or ligand binding site (LBS) in a protein-ligand complex, namely,
the "cutting plane" (CP) and the "tangent sphere" (TS) methods. To construct
the CP and TS, two centroids are required: the protein molecular centroid
(global centroid, GC), and the LBS centroid (local centroid, LC). The CP is
defined as the plane passing through the LBS centroid (LC) and normal to the
line passing through the LC and the protein molecular centroid (GC). The
"anterior side" of the CP is the side not containing the GC (which the
"posterior" side does). The TS is defined as the sphere with center at GC and
tangent to the CP at LC. The percentage of protein atoms (a.) inside the TS,
and (b.) on the anterior side of the CP, are two complementary measures of
ligand or LBS burial depth since the latter is directly proportional to (b.)
and inversely proportional to (a.). We tested the CP and TS methods using a
test set of 67 well characterized protein-ligand structures (Laskowski et al.,
1996), as well as the theoretical case of an artificial protein in the form of
a cubic lattice grid of points in the overall shape of a sphere and in which
LBS of any depth can be specified. Results from both the CP and TS methods
agree very well with data reported by Laskowski et al., and results from the
theoretical case further confirm that that both methods are suitable measures
of ligand or LBS burial. Prior to this study, there were no such numerical
measures of LBS burial available, and hence no way to directly and objectively
compare LBS depths in different proteins. LBS burial depth is an important
parameter as it is usually directly related to the amount of conformational
change a protein undergoes upon ligand binding, and ability to quantify it
could allow meaningful comparison of protein dynamics and flexibility.