We investigate the power of randomized algorithms for the maximum cardinality
matching (MCM) and the maximum weight matching (MWM) problems in the online
preemptive model. In this model, the edges of a graph are revealed one by one
and the algorithm is required to always maintain a valid matching. On seeing an
edge, the algorithm has to either accept or reject the edge. If accepted, then
the adjacent edges are discarded. The complexity of the problem is settled for
deterministic algorithms.
  Almost nothing is known for randomized algorithms. A lower bound of $1.693$
is known for MCM with a trivial upper bound of $2$. An upper bound of $5.356$
is known for MWM. We initiate a systematic study of the same in this paper with
an aim to isolate and understand the difficulty. We begin with a primal-dual
analysis of the deterministic algorithm due to McGregor. All deterministic
lower bounds are on instances which are trees at every step. For this class of
(unweighted) graphs we present a randomized algorithm which is
$\frac{28}{15}$-competitive. The analysis is a considerable extension of the
(simple) primal-dual analysis for the deterministic case. The key new technique
is that the distribution of primal charge to dual variables depends on the
"neighborhood" and needs to be done after having seen the entire input. The
assignment is asymmetric: in that edges may assign different charges to the two
end-points. Also the proof depends on a non-trivial structural statement on the
performance of the algorithm on the input tree.
  The other main result of this paper is an extension of the deterministic
lower bound of Varadaraja to a natural class of randomized algorithms which
decide whether to accept a new edge or not using independent random choices.