We performed a detailed analysis of elemental abundances, dust features, and
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the C-rich planetary nebula (PN)
Wray16-423 in the Sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy, based on a unique
dataset taken from the Subaru/HDS, MPG/ESO FEROS, HST/WFPC2, and Spitzer/IRS.
We performed the first measurements of Kr, Fe, and recombination O abundance in
this PN. The extremely small [Fe/H] implies that most Fe atoms are in the solid
phase, considering into account the abundance of [Ar/H]. The Spitzer/IRS
spectrum displays broad 16-24 um and 30 um features, as well as PAH bands at
6-9 um and 10-14 um. The unidentified broad 16-24 um feature may not be related
to iron sulfide (FeS), amorphous silicate, or PAHs. Using the spectral energy
distribution model, we derived the luminosity and effective temperature of the
central star, and the gas and dust masses. The observed elemental abundances
and derived gas mass are in good agreement with asymptotic giant branch
nucleosynthesis models for an initial mass of 1.90 Msun and a metallicity of
Z=0.004. We infer that respectively about 80 %, 50 %, and 90 % of the Mg, S,
and Fe atoms are in the solid phase. We also assessed the maximum possible
magnesium sulfide (MgS) and iron-rich sulfide (Fe50S) masses and tested whether
these species can produce the band flux of the observed 30 um feature.
Depending on what fraction of the sulfur is in sulfide molecules such as CS, we
conclude that MgS and Fe50S could be possible carriers of the 30 um feature in
this PN.