A long standing puzzle regarding the disparity of local and long range CuO6
octahedral tilt correlations in the underdoped regime of La2-xBaxCuO4 is
addressed by utilizing complementary neutron powder diffraction and inelastic
neutron scattering (INS) approaches. Long-range and static CuO6 tilt order with
orthogonally inequivalent Cu-O bonds in the CuO2 planes in the low temperature
tetragonal (LTT) phase is succeeded on warming through the low-temperature
transition by one with orthogonally equivalent bonds in the low temperature
orthorhombic (LTO) phase. In contrast, the signatures of LTT-type tilts in the
instantaneous local atomic structure persist on heating throughout the LTO
crystallographic phase on the nanoscale, although becoming weaker as
temperature increases. Analysis of the INS spectra for the x = 1/8 composition
reveals the dynamic nature of the LTT-like tilt fluctuations within the LTO
phase and their 3D character. The doping dependence of relevant structural
parameters indicates that the magnitude of the Cu-O bond anisotropy has a
maximum at x = 1/8 doping where bulk superconductivity is most strongly
suppressed, suggesting that the structural anisotropy might be influenced by
electron-phonon coupling and the particular stability of the stripe-ordered
phase at this composition. The bond-length modulation that pins stripe order is
found to be remarkably subtle, with no anomalous bond length disorder at low
temperature, placing an upper limit on any in-plane Cu-O bondlength anisotropy.
The results further reveal that although appreciable octahedral tilts persist
through the high-temperature transition and into the high temperature
tetragonal (HTT) phase, there is no significant preference between different
tilt directions in the HTT regime.