In this paper we study the timing and spectral properties of Be/X-ray binary
pulsar EXO 2030+375 using a $Suzaku$ observation on 2012 May 23, during a less
intense Type I outburst. Pulsations were clearly detected in the X-ray light
curves at a barycentric period of 41.2852 s which suggests that the pulsar is
spinning-up. The pulse profiles were found to be peculiar e.g. unlike that
obtained from the earlier Suzaku observation on 2007 May 14. A single-peaked
narrow profile at soft X-rays (0.5-10 keV range) changed to a double-peaked
broad profile in 12-55 keV energy range and again reverted back to a smooth
single-peaked profile at hard X-rays (55-70 keV range). The 1.0-100.0 keV
broad-band spectrum of the pulsar was found to be well described by three
continuum models such as (i) a partial covering high energy cut-off power-law
model, (ii) a partially absorbed power-law with high-energy exponential rolloff
and (iii) a partial covering Negative and Positive power law with EXponential
(NPEX) continuum model. Unlike earlier Suzaku observation during which several
low energy emission lines were detected, a weak and narrow Iron K_alpha
emission line at 6.4 keV was only present in the pulsar spectrum during the
2012 May outburst. Non-detection of any absorption like feature in 1-100 keV
energy range supports the claim of absence of cyclotron resonance scattering
feature in EXO 2030+375 from earlier Suzaku observation. Pulse-phase resolved
spectroscopy revealed the presence of additional dense matter causing the
absence of second peak from the soft X-ray pulse profiles. The details of the
results are described in the paper.