SN 2001el is the first normal Type Ia supernova to show a strong, intrinsic
polarization signal. In addition, during the epochs prior to maximum light, the
CaII IR triplet absorption is seen distinctly and separately at both normal
photospheric velocities and at very high velocities. The high-velocity triplet
absorption is highly polarized, with a different polarization angle than the
rest of the spectrum. The unique observation allows us to construct a
relatively detailed picture of the layered geometrical structure of the
supernova ejecta: in our interpretation, the ejecta layers near the photosphere
(v \approx 10,000 km/s) obey a near axial symmetry, while a detached,
high-velocity structure (v \approx 18,000-25,000 km/s) with high CaII line
opacity deviates from the photospheric axisymmetry. By partially obscuring the
underlying photosphere, the high-velocity structure causes a more incomplete
cancellation of the polarization of the photospheric light, and so gives rise
to the polarization peak and rotated polarization angle of the high-velocity IR
triplet feature. In an effort to constrain the ejecta geometry, we develop a
technique for calculating 3-D synthetic polarization spectra and use it to
generate polarization profiles for several parameterized configurations. In
particular, we examine the case where the inner ejecta layers are ellipsoidal
and the outer, high-velocity structure is one of four possibilities: a
spherical shell, an ellipsoidal shell, a clumped shell, or a toroid. The
synthetic spectra rule out the spherical shell model, disfavor a toroid, and
find a best fit with the clumped shell. We show further that different
geometries can be more clearly discriminated if observations are obtained from
several different lines of sight.