Since 1995, more than 1500 exoplanets have been discovered around a large
diversity of host stars (from M- to A-type stars). Tidal dissipation in stellar
convective envelopes is a key actor that shapes the orbital architecture of
short-period systems. Our objective is to understand and evaluate how tidal
dissipation in the convective envelope of low-mass stars (from M to F types)
depends on their mass, evolutionary stage and rotation. Using a simplified
two-layer assumption, we compute analytically the frequency-averaged tidal
dissipation in their convective envelope. This dissipation is due to the
conversion into heat of the kinetic energy of tidal non wave-like/equilibrium
flow and inertial waves because of the viscous friction applied by turbulent
convection. Using grids of stellar models allows us to study the variation of
the dissipation as a function of stellar mass and age on the Pre-Main-Sequence
and on the Main-Sequence for stars with masses spanning from $0.4$ to
$1.4M_{\odot}$. As shown by observations, tidal dissipation in stars varies
over several orders of magnitude as a function of stellar mass, age and
rotation. During their Pre-Main-Sequence, all low-mass stars have an increase
of the frequency-averaged tidal dissipation for a fixed angular velocity in
their convective envelope until they reach a critical aspect and mass ratios.
Next, the dissipation evolves on the Main Sequence to an asymptotic value that
becomes maximum for $0.6M_{\odot}$ K-type stars and that decreases by several
orders of magnitude with increasing stellar mass. Finally, the rotational
evolution of low-mass stars strengthens the importance of tidal dissipation
during the Pre-Main-Sequence for star-planet and multiple star systems.