In this PhD thesis we analyze the medium modification of the pi-omega-rho
coupling and subsequently discuss its possible influence on the dilepton
production rate in relativistic heavy-ion collisions. The first part of the
thesis is devoted to the medium modifications of the Dalitz decays from the
omega and rho mesons in nuclear matter. We use the relativistic field theory
formalism describing modifications of the coupling by one-loop Feynman diagrams
with nucleons and Delta(1232) isobars. We consider cases when the decaying
particle is at rest or at motion with respect to the medium. We investigate the
dependence of medium effects on the dilepton invariant mass and observe a
sizeable increase of the effective coupling constants compared to their vacuum
values. The effect grows with density. In the second part of the thesis we
apply our model to evaluate the influence of the medium effects on the dilepton
production from the Dalitz decays. In the calculations of the dilepton spectrum
we use the model of the hydrodynamic expansion of the fire cylinder. In our
comparison to the CERES dilepton data we take into account the experimental
cuts. The medium modifications enhance the effect of the Dalitz decays. It is
worth to point out that in the medium the rho decay due to the isospin
degeneracy becomes as important as the omega decay. The main new and original
results of the thesis are: 1. Significant in-medium increase of the
pi-omega-rho coupling constant. 2. Large enhancement of the Dalitz decays from
the omega and rho mesons in the range 0.2-0.6 GeV of the dilepton invariant
mass.