Natural ecosystems are characterized by striking diversity of form and
functions and yet exhibit deep symmetries emerging across scales of space, time
and organizational complexity. Species-area relationships and species-abundance
distributions are examples of emerging patterns irrespective of the details of
the underlying ecosystem functions. Here we present empirical and theoretical
evidence for a new macroecological pattern related to the distributions of
local species persistence times, defined as the timespans between local
colonizations and extinctions in a given geographic region. Empirical
distributions pertaining to two different taxa, breeding birds and herbaceous
plants, analyzed in a new framework that accounts for the finiteness of the
observational period, exhibit power-law scaling limited by a cut-off determined
by the rate of emergence of new species. In spite of the differences between
taxa and spatial scales of analysis, the scaling exponents are statistically
indistinguishable from each other and significantly different from those
predicted by existing models. We theoretically investigate how the scaling
features depend on the structure of the spatial interaction network and show
that the empirical scaling exponents are reproduced once a two-dimensional
isotropic texture is used, regardless of the details of the ecological
interactions. The framework developed here also allows to link the cut-off
timescale with the spatial scale of analysis, and the persistence-time
distribution to the species-area relationship. We conclude that the inherent
coherence obtained between spatial and temporal macroecological patterns points
at a seemingly general feature of the dynamical evolution of ecosystems.