A study of a set of well-isolated pulses in Long and Intermediate gamma ray
burst light curves indicates that simple pulse models having smooth and
monotonic pulse rise and decay regions are inadequate. Examining the residuals
of fits of pulses to such models suggests the following patterns of departure
from smooth pulses: three separate wavelike peaks found in the residuals of
each pulse (the precursor peak, the central peak, and the decay peak) combine
with the underlying Norris et al. (2005) pulse model to produce five distinct
regions in the temporal evolution of each pulse. The Precursor Shelf occurs
prior to or concurrent with the exponential Rapid Rise. The pulse reaches
maximum intensity at the Peak Plateau, then undergoes a Rapid Decay. The decay
gradually slows into an Extended Tail. Despite these distinct temporal
segments, the pulses studied are almost universally characterized by hard to
soft spectral evolution, arguing that the new pulse features reflect a single
evolution, rather than being artifacts of pulse overlap. The fluctuations can
give a single pulse the appearance of having up to three distinct localized
peaks, leading to ambiguities in pulse-fitting if an incorrect pulse model is
used. The approach demonstrates that complex GRBs may be composed of fewer
pulses than indicated by the number of peaks. The large degree of similar
spectro-temporal behavior within gamma-ray burst pulses indicates that a single
process is responsible for producing pulses spanning a tremendous range of
durations, luminosities, and spectral hardnesses, and the correlated
characteristics of the wavelike peaks are related to the pulse asymmetry,
suggesting kinematic origins that seem supportive of relativistic shocks.