This study aims to screen the antibacterial activity of lactic acid bacteria
(LAB) isolated from home-made fermented vegetables against common food borne
pathogens. The antagonistic properties of these isolates against Escherichia
coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Yersinia enterocolitica and Bacillus cereus were
examined using agar well diffusion method. Four LAB namely MF6, MF10, MF13, and
MF15 identified as Lactobacillus animalis, Lactobacillus rhamnosus,
Lactobacillus fermentum and Lactobacillus reuteri, respectively were effective
against all selected pathogenic strains. Amongst the four isolates, MF6
exhibited the highest antibacterial activity, against all the indicator
pathogens tested except Y. enterocolitic. Its activity was maximum against
E.coli with a Zone of Inhibition (ZOI) ranging from 18.7 to 21.3 mm and least
for Y. enterocolitica (10 \pm 1.1 mm). Isolate MF13 also showed antimicrobial
property against all tested pathogens showing highest activity against Y.
enterocolitica (14 \pm 1.7 mm) and least against E.coli (8 \pm 1.4 mm), which
was in direct contrast to isolate MF6. Isolate MF15 showed greater activity
against E.coli (12 \pm 0.8 mm) and least against S. aureus (8 \pm 1.7 mm).
Least antimicrobial property was observed in isolate MF10, with a ZOI in the
range of 2.5-7 mm. The degree of antimicrobial property among the isolates was
in the order of MF6>MF13>MF15>MF10. Overall, the isolated LAB showed the
remarkable inhibitory effect against both Gram positive and Gram negative
pathogenic strains. However, the spectrum of inhibition was different for the
isolates tested. These results suggest that this potent isolates could be used
as a natural biopreservatives in different food products.