We present results from a test for the Gaussianity of the whole sky
sub-degree scale CMB temperature anisotropy measured by the Wilkinson Microwave
Anisotropy Probe (WMAP). We calculate the genus from the foreground-subtracted
and Kp0-masked WMAP maps and measure the genus shift parameters defined at
negative and positive threshold levels and the asymmetry parameter to quantify
the deviation from the Gaussian relation. At WMAP Q, V, and W bands, the genus
and genus-related statistics imply that the observed CMB sky is consistent with
Gaussian random phase field. However, from the genus measurement on the
Galactic northern and southern hemispheres, we have found two non-Gaussian
signatures at the W band resolution (0.35 degree scale), i.e., the large
difference of genus amplitudes between the north and the south and the positive
genus asymmetry in the south, which are statistically significant at 2.6 sigma
and 2.4 sigma levels, respectively. The large genus amplitude difference also
appears in the WMAP Q and V band maps, deviating the Gaussian prediction with a
significance level of about 2 sigma. The probability that the genus curves show
such a large genus amplitude difference exceeding the observed values at all Q,
V, and W bands in a Gaussian sky is only 1.4%. Such non-Gaussian features are
reduced as the higher Galactic cut is applied, but their dependence on the
Galactic cut is weak. We discuss possible sources that can induce such
non-Gaussian features, and conclude that the CMB data with higher
signal-to-noise ratio and the accurate foreground model are needed to
understand the non-Gaussian signatures.