Finding tracers of the innermost regions of prestellar cores is important for
understanding their chemical and dynamical evolution before the onset of
gravitational collapse. While classical molecular tracers, such as CO and CS,
have been shown to be strongly depleted in cold, dense gas by condensation on
grain mantles, it has been a subject of discussion to what extent
nitrogen-bearing species, such as ammonia, are affected by this process. As
deuterium fractionation is efficient in cold, dense gas, deuterated species are
excellent tracers of prestellar cores. A comparison of the spatial distribution
of neutral and ionized deuterated species with the dust continuum emission can
thus provide important insights into the physical and chemical structure of
such regions. We study the spatial distribution of the ground-state 335.5 GHz
line of ND2H in LDN1689N, using APEX, and compare it with the distribution of
the DCO+(3--2) line, as well as the 350 micron dust continuum emission observed
with the SHARC~II bolometer camera at CSO. While the distribution of the ND2H
emission in LDN1689N is generally similar to that of the 350 microns dust
continuum emission, the peak of the ND2H emission is offset by ~10'' to the
East from the dust continuum and DCO+ emission peak. ND2H and ND3 share the
same spatial distribution. The observed offset between the ND2H and DCO+
emission is consistent with the hypothesis that the deuterium peak in LDN1689N
is an interaction region between the outflow shock from IRAS16293--2422 and the
dense ambient gas. We detect the J = 4 - 3 line of H13CO+ at 346.998 GHz in the
image side band serendipitously. This line shows the same spatial distribution
as DCO+(3--2), and peaks close to the 350 mic emission maximum which provides
further support for the shock interaction scenario.