Analytical radially self-similar models are the best available solutions
describing disk-winds but need several improvements. In a previous article, we
introduced models of jets from truncated disks, i.e. evolved in time numerical
simulations based on a radially self-similar MHD solution but including the
effects of a finite radius of the jet-emitting disk and thus the outflow. In
paper I of this series, we compared these models with available observational
data varying the jet density and velocity, the mass of the protostar and the
radius of the aforementioned truncation. In paper I, we assumed that the jet
lies in the plane of the sky. In this paper, we investigate the effect of
different inclinations of the jet. In order to compare our models with observed
jet widths inferred from recent optical images taken with HST and AO, we create
again emission maps in different forbidden lines and from such emission maps,
we determine the jet width as the full-width half-maximum of the emission. We
can reproduce the jet width of DG Tau and its variations very well and the
derived inclination of 40$^\circ$ is in excellent agreement with literature
values of 32--52$^\circ$. In CW Tau we overestimate the inclination in our
best-fit model. In the other objects, we cannot find appropriate models which
reproduce the variations of the observed jet widths, only the average jet width
itself is well modeled as in paper I. We conclude that truncation -- i.e.
taking into account the finite radius of the jet launching region -- is
necessary to reproduce the observed jet widths and our simulations limit the
possible range of truncation radii. The effects of inclination are important
for modeling the intrinsic variations seen in observed jet widths. Our models
can be used to infer independently the inclinations in the observed sample,
however, a parameter study with a finer grid of parameters is needed.