We investigate the line-profile variability (lpv) of H-alpha for a large
sample of O-type supergiants. We used the Temporal Variance Spectrum (TVS)
analysis, developed by Fullerton et al 1996 and modified by us to take into
account the effects of wind emission. By means of a comparative analysis we put
a number of constraints on the properties of the variability as a function of
stellar and wind parameters. The results of our analysis show that all the
stars in the sample show evidence of significant lpv in H-alpha, mostly
dominated by processes in the wind. The variations occur between zero and 0.3
v_inf (i.e., below ~1.5 R_star), in good agreement with the results from
similar studies. A comparison between observations and line-profile simulations
indicates that for stars with intermediate wind densities the H-alpha
variability can be explained by simple models, consisting of coherent or broken
shells (blobs) uniformly distributed over the wind volume, with an intrinsic
scatter in the maximum density contrast of about a factor of two. For stars at
lower and higher wind densities, on the other hand, we found certain
inconsistencies between observations and our predictions, most importantly
concerning the mean amplitude and the symmetry properties of the TVS. This
disagreement might be explained with the presence of coherent large-scale
structures, partly confined in a volume close to the star. Interpreted in terms
of a variable mass-loss rate, the observed variations of H-alpha indicate
changes of 4% with respect to the mean value of M_dot for stars with stronger
winds and of 16% for stars with weaker winds. The effect of these variations on
the corresponding wind momenta is rather insignificant (<0.16 dex), increasing
the local scatter without affecting the Wind Momentum Luminosity Relationship.