We analyse the symmetries and the self-consistent perturbative approaches of
dynamical field theories for glassforming liquids. In particular, we focus on
the time-reversal symmetry (TRS), which is crucial to obtain
fluctuation-dissipation relations (FDRs). Previous field theoretical treatment
violated this symmetry, whereas others pointed out that constructing symmetry
preserving perturbation theories is a crucial and open issue. In this work we
solve this problem and then apply our results to the mode-coupling theory of
the glass transition (MCT). We show that in the context of dynamical field
theories for glass-forming liquids TRS is expressed as a nonlinear field
transformation that leaves the action invariant. Because of this nonlinearity,
standard perturbation theories generically do not preserve TRS and in
particular FDRs. We show how one can cure this problem and set up
symmetry-preserving perturbation theories by introducing some auxiliary fields.
As an outcome we obtain Schwinger-Dyson dynamical equations that automatically
preserve FDRs and that serve as a basis for carrying out symmetry-preserving
approximations. We apply our results to MCT, revisiting previous field theory
derivations of MCT equations and showing that they generically violate FDR. We
obtain symmetry-preserving mode-coupling equations and discuss their advantages
and drawbacks. Furthermore, we show, contrary to previous works, that the
structure of the dynamic equations is such that the ideal glass transition is
not cut off at any finite order of perturbation theory, even in the presence of
coupling between current and density. The opposite results found in previous
field theoretical works, such as the ones based on nonlinear fluctuating
hydrodynamics, were only due to an incorrect treatment of TRS.