A high level of diversity has already been observed among the planets of our
own Solar System. As such, one expects extrasolar planets to present a wide
range of distinctive features, therefore the characterisation of Earth- and
super Earth-like planets is becoming of key importance in scientific research.
The SEARCH (Spectropolarimetric Exoplanet AtmospheRe CHaracerisation) mission
proposal of this paper represents one possible approach to realising these
objectives. The mission goals of SEARCH include the detailed characterisation
of a wide variety of exoplanets, ranging from terrestrial planets to gas
giants. More specifically, SEARCH will determine atmospheric properties such as
cloud coverage, surface pressure and atmospheric composition, and may also be
capable of identifying basic surface features. To resolve a planet with a semi
major axis of down to 1.4AU and 30pc distant SEARCH will have a mirror system
consisting of two segments, with elliptical rim, cut out of a parabolic mirror.
This will yield an effective diameter of 9 meters along one axis. A phase mask
coronagraph along with an integral spectrograph will be used to overcome the
contrast ratio of star to planet light. Such a mission would provide invaluable
data on the diversity present in extrasolar planetary systems and much more
could be learned from the similarities and differences compared to our own
Solar System. This would allow our theories of planetary formation, atmospheric
accretion and evolution to be tested, and our understanding of regions such as
the outer limit of the Habitable Zone to be further improved.