We present comprehensive catalogs of hot star candidates in the Milky Way,
selected from GALEX far-UV (FUV, 1344-1786 AA) and near-UV (NUV, 1771-2831 AA)
imaging. The FUV and NUV photometry allows us to extract the hottest stellar
objects, in particular hot white dwarfs (WD), which are elusive at other
wavelengths because of their high temperatures and faint optical luminosities.
We generated catalogs of UV sources from two GALEX's surveys: AIS (All-Sky
Imaging Survey, depth ABmag~19.9/20.8 in FUV/NUV) and MIS (Medium-depth Imaging
Survey, depth ~22.6/22.7mag). The two catalogs (from GALEX fifth data release)
contain 65.3/12.6 million (AIS/MIS) unique UV sources with error(NUV)<0.5mag,
over 21,435/1,579 square degrees. We also constructed subcatalogs of the UV
sources with matched optical photometry from SDSS (7th data release): these
contain 0.6/0.9million (AIS/MIS) sources with errors <0.3mag in both FUV and
NUV, excluding sources with multiple optical counterparts, over an area of
7,325/1,103 square degrees. All catalogs are available online. We then selected
28,319(AIS)/9,028(MIS) matched sources with FUV-NUV<-0.13; this color cut
corresponds to stellar Teff hotter than ~18,000 K. An additional color cut of
NUV-r>0.1 isolates binaries with largely differing Teff's, and some intruding
QSOs. Available spectroscopy for a subsample indicates that hot-star candidates
with NUV-r<0.1 have negligible contamination by non-stellar objects. We discuss
the distribution of sources in the catalogs, and the effects of error and color
cuts on the samples. The density of hot-star candidates increases from high to
low Galactic latitudes, but drops on the MW plane due to dust extinction. Our
hot-star counts at all latitudes are better matched by Milky Way models
computed with an initial-final mass relation that favours lower final masses.
(ABRIDGED)