We report results from the observations of the well studied TeV blazar Mrk
421 with the Swift and the Suzaku satellites in December 2008. During the
observation, Mrk 421 was found in a relatively low activity state, with the
corresponding 2-10 keV flux of $3 \times 10^{-10}$ erg/s/cm^2. For the purpose
of robust constraining the UV-to-X-ray emission continuum we selected only the
data corresponding to truly simultaneous time intervals between Swift and
Suzaku, allowing us to obtain a good-quality, broad-band spectrum despite a
modest length (0.6 ksec) exposure. We analyzed the spectrum with the parametric
forward-fitting SYNCHROTRON model implemented in XSPEC assuming two different
representations of the underlying electron energy distribution, both well
motivated by the current particle acceleration models: a power-law distribution
above the minimum energy $\gamma_{\rm min}$ with an exponential cutoff at the
maximum energy $\gamma_{\rm max}$, and a modified ultra-relativistic Maxwellian
with an equilibrium energy $\gamma_{\rm eq}$. We found that the latter implies
unlikely physical conditions within the blazar zone of Mrk 421. On the other
hand, the exponentially moderated power-law electron distribution gives two
possible sets of the model parameters: (i) flat spectrum $dN'_e/d\gamma \propto
\gamma^{-1.91}$ with low minimum electron energy $\gamma_{\rm min}<10^3$, and
(ii) steep spectrum $\propto \gamma^{-2.77}$ with high minimum electron energy
$\gamma_{\rm min}\simeq 2\times10^4$. We discuss different interpretations of
both possibilities in the context of a diffusive acceleration of electrons at
relativistic, sub- or superluminal shocks. We also comment on how exactly the
gamma-ray data can be used to discriminate between the proposed different
scenarios.