We introduce a classification scheme of the post-merger dynamics and
gravitational-wave emission in binary neutron star mergers, after identifying a
new mechanism by which a secondary peak in the gravitational-wave spectrum is
produced. It is caused by a spiral deformation, the pattern of which rotates
slower with respect to the double-core structure in center of the remnant. This
secondary peak is typically well separated in frequency from the secondary peak
produced by a nonlinear interaction between a quadrupole and a quasi-radial
oscillation. The new mechanism allows for an explanation of low-frequency
modulations seen in a number of physical characteristics of the remnant, such
as the central lapse function, the maximum density and the separation between
the two cores. We find empirical relations for both types of secondary peaks
between their gravitational-wave frequency and the compactness of nonrotating
individual neutron stars, that exist for fixed total binary masses. These
findings are derived for equal-mass binaries without intrinsic neutron-star
spin analyzing hydrodynamical simulations without magnetic field effects. Our
classification scheme may form the basis for the construction of detailed
gravitational-wave templates of the post-merger phase. We find that the
quasi-radial oscillation frequency of the remnant decreases with the total
binary mass. For a given merger event our classification scheme may allow to
determine the proximity of the measured total binary mass to the threshold mass
for prompt black hole formation, which can, in turn, yield an estimate of the
maximum neutron-star mass.