At the partonic level, a typical final state in small-x deep inelastic
scattering off nuclei and hard proton-nucleus collisions can be characterized
by the multiplicity of color-excited nucleons. Within reggeon field theory,
each color-excited nucleon is associated with the unitarity cut of the pomeron
exchanged between the projectile and nucleus. In this communication we derive
the unitarity rules for the multiplicity of excited nucleons, alias cut
pomerons, alias topological cross sections, for typical hard dijet production
processes. We demonstrate how the coupled-channel non-Abelian intranuclear
evolution of color dipoles, inherent to pQCD, gives rise to the reggeon field
theory diagrams for final states in terms of the uncut, and two kinds of cut,
pomerons. Upon the proper identification of the uncut and cut pomeron
exchanges, the topological cross sections for dijet production follow in a
straightforward way from the earlier derived nonlinear k_t - factorization
quadratures for the inclusive dijet cross sections. The concept of a coherent
(collective) nuclear glue proves extremely useful for the formulation of
reggeon field theory vertices of multipomeron - cut and uncut - couplings to
particles and between themselves. A departure of our unitarity cutting rules
from the ones suggested by the pre-QCD Abramovsky-Kancheli-Gribov rules, stems
from the coupled-channel features of intranuclear pQCD. We propose a
multiplicity re-summation as a tool for the isolation of topological cross
sections for single-jet production.