(abridged) Uninhibited radiative cooling in clusters of galaxies would lead
to excessive mass accretion rates contrary to observations. One of the key
proposals to offset radiative energy losses is thermal conduction from outer,
hotter layers of cool core clusters to their centers. However, conduction is
sensitive to magnetic field topology. In cool-core clusters the heat buoyancy
instability (HBI) leads to B-fields ordered preferentially in the direction
perpendicular to that of gravity, which significantly reduces the level of
conduction below the classical Spitzer-Braginskii value. However, the cluster
cool cores are rarely in perfect hydrostatic equilibrium. Sloshing motions due
to minor mergers, galaxy motions or AGN can significantly perturb the gas and
affect the level of thermal conduction. We perform 3D AMR MHD simulations of
the effect of turbulence on the properties of the anisotropic thermal
conduction in cool core clusters. We show that very weak subsonic motions, well
within observational constraints, can randomize the magnetic field and
significantly boost effective thermal conduction beyond the saturated values
expected in the pure unperturbed HBI case. We find that the turbulent motions
can essentially restore the conductive heat flow to the cool core to level
comparable to the theoretical maximum of 1/3 Spitzer for a highly tangled
field. Runs with radiative cooling show that the cooling catastrophe can be
averted and the cluster core stabilized. Above a critical Froude number, these
same turbulent motions also eliminate the tangential bias in the velocity and
magnetic field that is otherwise induced by the trapped g-modes. Our results
can be tested with future radio polarization measurements, and have
implications for efficient metal dispersal in clusters.