Considering a plasma with an initially weak large scale field subject to
nonhelical turbulent stirring, Zeldovich (1957), for two-dimensions, followed
by others for three dimensions, and Zeldovich et al. (1983) have presented
formulae of the form $<b^2>=f(R_M){Bbar}^2$. Such ``Zeldovich relations'' have
sometimes been interpreted to provide steady-state relations between the energy
associated with the fluctuating magnetic field and that associated with a large
scale or mean field multiplied by a function $f$ that depends on spatial
dimension and a magnetic Reynolds number $R_M$. Here we dissect the origin of
these relations and pinpoint pitfalls that show why they are inapplicable to
realistic, dynamical MHD turbulence and that they disagree with many numerical
simulations. For 2-D, we show that when the total magnetic field is determined
by a vector potential, the standard Zeldovich relation applies only
transiently, characterizing a maximum possible value that the field energy can
reach before necessarily decaying. in relation to a seed value $Bbar$. In 3-D,
we show that the standard Zeldovich relations are derived by balancing
subdominant terms. In contrast, balancing the dominant terms shows that the
fluctuating field can grow to a value independent of $R_M$ and the initially
imposed $Bbar$, as seen in numerical simulations. We also emphasize that these
Zeldovich relations of nonhelical turbulence imply nothing about the amount
mean field growth in a helical dynamo. In short, by re-analyzing the origin of
the Zeldovich relations, we highlight that they are inapplicable to realistic
steady-states of large $R_M$ MHD turbulence.