In this paper, we present a comprehensive analysis of star-forming galaxies
(SFGs) at intermediate redshifts (z~1). We combine the ultra-deep optical
spectro-photometric data from the SHARDS survey with deep UV-to-FIR
observations in the GOODS-N field to build and characterize a complete sample
of SFGs at z~0.84 and z~1.23. Exploiting two of the 25 SHARDS medium-band
filters, F687W17 and F823W17, we select [OII] emission line galaxies (ELGs) at
z~0.84 and z~1.23 and characterize their physical properties. Their rest-frame
equivalent widths (EWrf([OII])), line fluxes, luminosities, star formation
rates (SFRs) and dust attenuation properties are investigated. The evolution of
the EWrf([OII]) closely follows the SFR density evolution of the Universe, with
a EWrf([OII])$\propto$(1+z)$^3$ trend up to redshift z~1, followed by a
possible flattening. The SF properties of the galaxies selected on the basis of
their [OII] emission are compared with complementary samples of SFGs selected
by their MIR and FIR emission, and also with a general mass-selected sample of
galaxies at the same redshifts. We observationally demonstrate that the UVJ
diagram (or, similarly, a cut in the specific SFR) is only partially able to
distinguish the quiescent galaxies from the SFGs. The SFR-M$_*$ relation is
investigated for the different samples, finding a logarithmic slope ~1, in good
agreement with previous results. The dust attenuations derived from different
SFR indicators (UV(1600), UV(2800), [OII], IR) are compared, finding clear
trends with respect to both the stellar mass and total SFR, with more massive
and highly star-forming galaxies being affected by stronger dust attenuation.
The full SHARDS dataset allows the extension of this study to other redshifts
and emission lines, thus providing a powerful tool for the study of ELGs up to
high redshifts. (Abridged)