The Kepler planet sample can only be used to reconstruct the underlying
planet occurrence rate if the detection efficiency of the Kepler pipeline is
known, here we present the results of a second experiment aimed at
characterising this detection efficiency. We inject simulated transiting planet
signals into the pixel data of ~10,000 targets, spanning one year of
observations, and process the pixels as normal. We compare the set of
detections made by the pipeline with the expectation from the set of simulated
planets, and construct a sensitivity curve of signal recovery as a function of
the signal-to-noise of the simulated transit signal train. The sensitivity
curve does not meet the hypothetical maximum detection efficiency, however it
is not as pessimistic as some of the published estimates of the detection
efficiency. For the FGK stars in our sample, the sensitivity curve is well fit
by a gamma function with the coefficients a = 4.35 and b = 1.05. We also find
that the pipeline algorithms recover the depths and periods of the injected
signals with very high fidelity, especially for periods longer than 10 days. We
perform a simplified occurrence rate calculation using the measured detection
efficiency compared to previous assumptions of the detection efficiency found
in the literature to demonstrate the systematic error introduced into the
resulting occurrence rates. The discrepancies in the calculated occurrence
rates may go some way towards reconciling some of the inconsistencies found in
the literature.