We present high resolution (R $\sim$ 44,000) UVES spectra of the eclipsing
pre-main sequence star KH 15D covering the wavelength range 4780 to 6810 {\AA}
obtained at three phases: out of eclipse, near minimum light and during egress.
The system evidently acts like a natural coronagraph, enhancing the contrast
relative to the continuum of hydrogen and forbidden emission lines during
eclipse. At maximum light the H$\alpha$ equivalent width was $\sim$2 {\AA} and
the profile showed broad wings and a deep central absorption. During egress the
equivalent width was much higher ($\sim$70 {\AA}) and the broad wings, which
extend to $\pm$ 300 km/s, were prominent. During eclipse totality the
equivalent width was less than during egress ($\sim$40 {\AA}) and the high
velocity wings were much weaker. H$\beta$ showed a somewhat different behavior,
revealing only the blue-shifted portion of the high velocity component during
eclipse and egress. [OI] $\lambda\lambda$6300, 6363 lines are easily seen both
out of eclipse and when the photosphere is obscured and exhibit little or no
flux variation with eclipse phase. Our interpretation is that KH 15D, although
clearly a weak-line T Tauri star by the usual criteria, is still accreting
matter from a circumstellar disk, and has a well-collimated bipolar jet. As the
knife-edge of the occulting matter passes across the close stellar environment
it is evidently revealing structure in the magnetosphere of this pre-main
sequence star with unprecedented spatial resolution. We also show that there is
only a small, perhaps marginally significant, change in the velocity of the K7
star between the maximum light and egress phases probed here.