Context. White dwarfs can be used to study the structure and evolution of the
Galaxy by analysing their luminosity function and initial mass function. Among
them, the very cool white dwarfs provide the information for the early ages of
each population. Because white dwarfs are intrinsically faint only the nearby
(about 20 pc) sample is reasonably complete. The Gaia space mission will
drastically increase the sample of known white dwarfs through its 5-6 years
survey of the whole sky up to magnitude V = 20-25.
  Aims. We provide a characterisation of Gaia photometry for white dwarfs to
better prepare for the analysis of the scientific output of the mission.
Transformations between some of the most common photometric systems and Gaia
passbands are derived. We also give estimates of the number of white dwarfs of
the different galactic populations that will be observed.
  Methods. Using synthetic spectral energy distributions and the most recent
Gaia transmission curves, we computed colours of three different types of white
dwarfs (pure hydrogen, pure helium, and mixed composition with H/He= 0.1). With
these colours we derived transformations to other common photometric systems
(Johnson-Cousins, Sloan Digital Sky Survey, and 2MASS). We also present numbers
of white dwarfs predicted to be observed by Gaia.
  Results. We provide relationships and colour-colour diagrams among different
photometric systems to allow the prediction and/or study of the Gaia white
dwarf colours. We also include estimates of the number of sources expected in
every galactic population and with a maximum parallax error. Gaia will increase
the sample of known white dwarfs tenfold to about 200 000. Gaia will be able to
observe thousands of very cool white dwarfs for the first time, which will
greatly improve our understanding of these stars and early phases of star
formation in our Galaxy.