This dissertation analyses the computational properties of current
performance-models of natural language parsing, in particular Data Oriented
Parsing (DOP), points out some of their major shortcomings and suggests
suitable solutions. It provides proofs that various problems of probabilistic
disambiguation are NP-Complete under instances of these performance-models, and
it argues that none of these models accounts for attractive efficiency
properties of human language processing in limited domains, e.g. that frequent
inputs are usually processed faster than infrequent ones. The central
hypothesis of this dissertation is that these shortcomings can be eliminated by
specializing the performance-models to the limited domains. The dissertation
addresses "grammar and model specialization" and presents a new framework, the
Ambiguity-Reduction Specialization (ARS) framework, that formulates the
necessary and sufficient conditions for successful specialization. The
framework is instantiated into specialization algorithms and applied to
specializing DOP. Novelties of these learning algorithms are 1) they limit the
hypotheses-space to include only "safe" models, 2) are expressed as constrained
optimization formulae that minimize the entropy of the training tree-bank given
the specialized grammar, under the constraint that the size of the specialized
model does not exceed a predefined maximum, and 3) they enable integrating the
specialized model with the original one in a complementary manner. The
dissertation provides experiments with initial implementations and compares the
resulting Specialized DOP (SDOP) models to the original DOP models with
encouraging results.