In the present work we derive a Differential Emission Measure (DEM) dis-
tribution from a region dominated by spicules. We use spectral data from the
Solar Ultraviolet Measurements of Emitted Radiation (SUMER) spectrometer
on-board the Solar Heliospheric Observatory (SoHO) covering the entire SUMER
wavelength range taken off-limb in the Northern polar coronal hole to construct
this DEM distribution using the CHIANTI atomic database. This distribution is
then used to study the thermal properties of the emission contributing to the
171 {\AA} channel in the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) on-board the Solar
Dynamics Observatory (SDO). From our off-limb DEM we found that the radiance in
the AIA 171 {\AA} channel is dominated by emission from the Fe ix 171.07 {\AA}
line and has sparingly little contribution from other lines. The product of the
Fe ix 171.07 {\AA} line contribution function with the off-limb DEM was found
to have a maximum at logTmax (K) = 5.8 indicating that during spicule
observations the emission in this line comes from plasma at transition region
temperatures rather than coronal. For comparison, the same product with a quiet
Sun and prominence DEM were found to have a maximum at logT max (K) = 5.9 and
logTmax (K) = 5.7, respectively. We point out that the interpretation of data
obtained from the AIA 171 {\AA} filter should be done with foreknowledge of the
thermal nature of the observed phenomenon. For example, with an off-limb DEM we
find that only 3.6% of the plasma is above a million degrees, whereas using a
quiet Sun DEM, this contribution rises to 15%.