We report a novel radio autocorrelation (AC) search for extraterrestrial
intelligence (SETI). For selected frequencies across the terrestrial microwave
window (1-10 GHz) observations were conducted at the Allen Telescope Array to
identify artificial non-sinusoidal periodic signals with radio bandwidths
greater than 1 kHz, which are capable of carrying substantial messages with
symbol-rates from 10-10e6 Hz. Out of 243 observations, about half (101) were
directed toward sources with known continuum flux greater than 1 Jy (quasars,
pulsars, supernova remnants and masers), based on the hypothesis that they
might harbor heretofore undiscovered natural or artificial, repetitive, phase
or frequency modulation. The rest of the targets were mostly toward exoplanet
stars and similarly interesting targets from the standpoint of SETI. This
campaign rules out several previously untested hypotheses relating to the
number of artificially modulated "natural" sources. Since we are using a phase
sensitive detector, these observations break new ground on this topic. We
conclude that the maximum probability that future observations like the ones
described here will reveal repetitively modulated emissions from a wide variety
of sources, including quasars, supernova remnants and bright stars, is no more
than 15-30 percent, depending on source type. The paper concludes by describing
an approach to expanding this survey to many more targets and much greater
sensitivity using archived and real-time data from interferometers all over the
world.