A low complexity, essentially-ML decoding technique for the Golden code and
the 3 antenna Perfect code was introduced by Sirianunpiboon, Howard and
Calderbank. Though no theoretical analysis of the decoder was given, the
simulations showed that this decoding technique has almost maximum-likelihood
(ML) performance. Inspired by this technique, in this paper we introduce two
new low complexity decoders for Space-Time Block Codes (STBCs) - the Adaptive
Conditional Zero-Forcing (ACZF) decoder and the ACZF decoder with successive
interference cancellation (ACZF-SIC), which include as a special case the
decoding technique of Sirianunpiboon et al. We show that both ACZF and ACZF-SIC
decoders are capable of achieving full-diversity, and we give sufficient
conditions for an STBC to give full-diversity with these decoders. We then show
that the Golden code, the 3 and 4 antenna Perfect codes, the 3 antenna Threaded
Algebraic Space-Time code and the 4 antenna rate 2 code of Srinath and Rajan
are all full-diversity ACZF/ACZF-SIC decodable with complexity strictly less
than that of their ML decoders. Simulations show that the proposed decoding
method performs identical to ML decoding for all these five codes. These STBCs
along with the proposed decoding algorithm outperform all known codes in terms
of decoding complexity and error performance for 2,3 and 4 transmit antennas.
We further provide a lower bound on the complexity of full-diversity
ACZF/ACZF-SIC decoding. All the five codes listed above achieve this lower
bound and hence are optimal in terms of minimizing the ACZF/ACZF-SIC decoding
complexity. Both ACZF and ACZF-SIC decoders are amenable to sphere decoding
implementation.