We present the frequency resolved energy spectra (FRS) of the low-mass X-ray
binary dipper XB 1323-619 during persistent emission in four different
frequency bands using an archival XMM-Newton observation. FRS method helps to
probe the inner zones of an accretion disk. We find that the FRS is well
described by a single blackbody component with kT in a range 1.0-1.4 keV
responsible for the source variability in the frequency ranges 0.002-0.04 Hz,
and 0.07-0.3 Hz. We attribute this component to the accretion disk and possibly
emission from an existing boundary layer supported by radiation pressure. The
appearance of the blackbody component in the lower frequency ranges and
disappearance towards the higher frequencies suggests that it may also be a
disk-blackbody emission. We detect a different form of FRS for the higher
frequency ranges 0.9-6 Hz and 8-30 Hz which is modeled best with a power-law
and a Gaussian emission line at 6.4$^{+0.2}_{-0.3}$ keV with an equivalent
width of 1.6$^{+0.4}_{-1.2}$ keV and 1.3$^{+0.7}_{-0.9}$ keV for the two
frequency ranges, respectively. This iron fluorescence line detected in the
higher frequency ranges of spectra shows the existence of reflection in this
system within the inner disk regions. In addition, we find that the 0.9-6 Hz
frequency band shows two QPO peaks at 1.4$^{+1.0}_{-0.2}$ Hz and
2.8$^{+0.2}_{-0.2}$ Hz at about 2.8-3.1 $\sigma$ confidence level. These are
consistent with the previously detected $\sim$ 1 Hz QPO from this source
(Jonker et al. 1999). We believe they relate to the reflection phenomenon. The
emission from the reflection region, being a variable spectral component in
this system, originates from the inner regions of the disk with a maximum size
of 4.7$\times 10^9$ cm and a minimum size of 1.6$\times 10^8$ cm calculated
using light travel time considerations and our frequency resolved spectra.