Microquasars are accreting binary systems displaying relativistic radio jets
where very high energy gamma rays might be produced via Inverse Compton
scattering. The detection of the microquasar Cygnus X-3 above 100 MeV by both
Fermi/LAT and AGILE satellites, together with the short flares from Cygnus X-1
reported by AGILE, confirmed that this class of astrophysical objects are
interesting candidates for very high energy gamma-ray observations. The
stand-alone imaging atmospheric Cherenkov MAGIC telescope, and later on the
recently inaugurated stereoscopic system, made a significant effort to search
for signals from microquasars. This paper reviews all MAGIC results of Cygnus
X-3, Cygnus X-1, Scorpius X-1, and SS 433 observations. The stand-alone MAGIC
telescope observed Cygnus X-3 for almost 60 hrs from March 2006 until August
2009 in many different X-ray spectral states where a very high energy emission
is predicted and also simultaneously with a flux enhancement at high energies
detected by Fermi/LAT. No significant signal was found in any of the observed
conditions. The MAGIC stereoscopic system pointed at the Z-type low-mass X-ray
binary Scorpius X-1 in May 2010 for ~8 hrs. Simultaneous soft X-ray
measurements allowed to define the X-ray spectral state of the source which
could emit very-high-energy photons in the horizontal branch. MAGIC did not
detect the source and put some constraints on the maximum TeV luminosity to jet
power ratio. Further observations of Cygnus X-1 were also carried out with the
new and twice as sensitive stereoscopic system in Autumn 2009 for a total
amount of 30 hrs. Finally, we also report on SS 433 observations obtained
during two periods of minimum absorption processes from the accretion disk.