We present 1D non-local thermodynamic equilibrium (non-LTE) time-dependent
radiative-transfer simulations of a Chandrasekhar-mass delayed-detonation model
which synthesizes 0.51 Msun of 56Ni, and confront our results to the Type Ia
supernova (SN Ia) 2002bo over the first 100 days of its evolution. Assuming
only homologous expansion, this same model reproduces the bolometric and
multi-band light curves, the secondary near-infrared (NIR) maxima, and the
optical and NIR spectra. The chemical stratification of our model qualitatively
agrees with previous inferences by Stehle et al., but reveals significant
quantitative differences for both iron-group and intermediate-mass elements. We
show that +/-0.1 Msun (i.e., +/-20 per cent) variations in 56Ni mass have a
modest impact on the bolometric and colour evolution of our model. One notable
exception is the U-band, where a larger abundance of iron-group elements
results in less opaque ejecta through ionization effects, our model with more
56Ni displaying a higher near-UV flux level. In the NIR range, such variations
in 56Ni mass affect the timing of the secondary maxima but not their magnitude,
in agreement with observational results. Moreover, the variation in the I, J,
and K_s magnitudes is less than 0.1 mag within ~10 days from bolometric
maximum, confirming the potential of NIR photometry of SNe Ia for cosmology.
Overall, the delayed-detonation mechanism in single Chandrasekhar-mass white
dwarf progenitors seems well suited for SN 2002bo and similar SNe Ia displaying
a broad Si II 6355 A line. Whatever multidimensional processes are at play
during the explosion leading to these events, they must conspire to produce an
ejecta comparable to our spherically-symmetric model.