We report an eclipse mapping analysis of time-resolved ultraviolet
spectroscopy covering three eclipses of the dwarf nova IP Pegasi on the late
decline of the 1993 May outburst. The eclipse maps of the first run show
evidence of one spiral arm, suggesting that spiral structures may still be
present in the accretion disc 9 days after the onset of the outburst. In the
spatially resolved spectra the most prominent lines appear in emission at any
radius, being stronger in the inner disc regions. The spectrum of the gas
stream is clearly distinct from the disc spectrum in the intermediate and outer
disc regions, suggesting the occurrence of gas stream overflow. The full width
half maximum of C IV is approximately constant with radius, in contrast to the
expected $v\propto{R^{-1/2}}$ law for a gas in Keplerian orbits. This line
probably originates in a vertically extended region (chromosphere + disc wind).
The uneclipsed component contributes $\sim{4}$ % of the flux in C IV in the
first run, and becomes negligible in the remaining runs. We fit stellar
atmosphere models to the spatially resolved spectra. The radial run of the disc
color temperature for the three runs is flatter than the expected
$T\propto{R^{-3/4}}$ law for steady-state optically thick discs models, with
$T\simeq{20000}$ K in the inner regions and $T\simeq{9000}$ K in the outer disc
regions. The solid angles that result from the fits are smaller than expected
from the parameters of the system. The radial run of the solid angle suggests
that the disc is flared in outburst, and decreases in thickness toward the end
of the outburst.