We present a systematic theoretical study of the five smallest oligoacenes
(naphthalene, anthracene, tetracene, pentacene, and hexacene) in their
anionic,neutral, cationic, and dicationic charge states. We used density
functional theory (DFT) to obtain the ground-state optimised geometries, and
time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) to evaluate the electronic absorption spectra.
Total-energy differences enabled us to evaluate the electron affinities and
first and second ionisation energies, the quasiparticle correction to the
HOMO-LUMO energy gap and an estimate of the excitonic effects in the neutral
molecules. Electronic absorption spectra have been computed by combining two
different implementations of TD-DFT: the frequency-space method to study
general trends as a function of charge-state and molecular size for the
lowest-lying in-plane long-polarised and short-polarised $\pi\to\pi^\star$
electronic transitions, and the real-time propagation scheme to obtain the
whole photo-absorption cross-section up to the far-UV. Doubly-ionised PAHs are
found to display strong electronic transitions of $\pi\to\pi^\star$ character
in the near-IR, visible, and near-UV spectral ranges, like their singly-charged
counterparts. While, as expected, the broad plasmon-like structure with its
maximum at about 17-18 eV is relatively insensitive to the charge-state of the
molecule, a systematic decrease with increasing positive charge of the
absorption cross-section between about 6 and about 12 eV is observed for each
member of the class.