We present an overview of new HST imaging polarimetry of six nearby radio
galaxies with optical jets. These observations triple the number of
extragalactic jets with subarcsecond-resolution optical polarimetry. We discuss
the polarization characteristics and optical morphology of each jet. We find
evidence of high optical polarization, averaging 20%, but reaching upwards of
$\sim 50%$ in some objects, confirming that the optical emission is
synchrotron, and that the components of the magnetic fields perpendicular to
the line of sight are well ordered. We find a wide range of polarization
morphologies, with each jet having a somewhat different relationship between
total intensity and polarized flux and the polarization position angle. We find
two trends in all of these jets. First, jet ``edges'' are very often associated
with high fractional optical polarizations, as also found in earlier radio
observations of these and other radio jets. In these regions, the magnetic
field vectors appear to track the jet direction, even at bends, where we see
particularly high fractional polarizations. This indicates a strong link
between the local magnetic field and jet dynamics. Second, optical flux maximum
regions are usually well separated from maxima in fractional polarization and
often are associated with polarization minima. This trend is not found in radio
data and was found in our optical polarimetry of M87 with HST. However, unlike
in M87, we do not find a general trend for near-90$^\circ$ rotations in the
optical polarization vectors near flux maxima. We discuss possibilities for
interpreting these trends, as well as implications for jet dynamics, magnetic
field structure and particle acceleration.