[abridged] The LMXB 4U 0614+091 is a source of sporadic thermonuclear (type
I) X-ray bursts. We find bursts with a wide variety of characteristics in
serendipitous wide-field X-ray observations by EURECA/WATCH, RXTE/ASM,
BeppoSAX/WFC, HETE-2/FREGATE, INTEGRAL/IBIS/ISGRI, and Swift/BAT, as well as
pointed observations by RXTE/PCA and HEXTE. Most of them reach a peak flux of
~15 Crab, but a few only reach a peak flux below a Crab. One of the bursts
shows a very strong photospheric radius-expansion phase. This allows us to
evaluate the distance to the source: 3.2 kpc. The burst durations are between
10 sec to 5 min. However, after one of the intermediate-duration bursts, a
faint tail is seen to at least ~2.4 hours after the start of the burst. One
very long burst lasted for several hours. This superburst candidate was
followed by a normal type-I burst only 19 days later. This is, to our
knowledge, the shortest burst-quench time among the superbursters. A superburst
in this system is difficult to reconcile if it accretes at ~1% L_Edd. The
intermediate-duration bursts occurred when 4U 0614+091's persistent emission
was lowest and calm, and when bursts were infrequent (on average one every
month to 3 months). The average burst rate increased significantly after this
period. The maximum average burst recurrence rate is once every week to 2
weeks. The burst behaviour may be partly understood if there is at least an
appreciable amount of helium present in the accreted material from the donor
star. If the system is an ultra-compact X-ray binary with a CO white-dwarf
donor, as has been suggested, this is unexpected. If the bursts are powered by
helium, we find that the energy production per accumulated mass is about 2.5
times less than expected for pure helium matter.