We analyze the global hydrodynamic flow in the ocean of an accreting, rapidly
rotating, non-magnetic neutron star in an LMXB during a type I X-ray burst. Our
analysis takes into account the rapid rotation of the star and the lift-up of
the burning ocean during the burst. We find a new regime for spreading of a
nuclear burning front, where the flame is carried along a coherent shear flow
across the front. If turbulent viscosity is weak, the speed of flame
propagation is ~20 km/s, while, if turbulent viscosity is dynamically
important, the flame speed increases, and reaches the maximum value, ~300 km/s,
when the eddy overturn frequency is comparable to the Coriolis parameter. We
show that, due to rotationally reduced gravity, the thermonuclear runaway is
likely to begin on the equator. The equatorial belt is ignited first, and the
flame then propagates from the equator to the poles. Inhomogeneous cooling
(equator first, poles second) drives strong zonal currents which may be
unstable to formation of Jupiter-type vortices; we conjecture that these
vortices are responsible for modulation of X-ray flux in the tails of some
bursts. We consider the effect of strong zonal currents on the frequency of
modulation of the X-ray flux and show that the large values of the frequency
drifts observed in some bursts can be accounted for within our model combined
with the model of homogeneous radial expansion. Also, if inhomogeneities are
trapped in the forward zonal flows around the propagating burning front, chirps
with large frequency ranges (~25-500 Hz) may be detectable during the burst
rise. We argue that an MHD dynamo within the burning front can generate a
small-scale magnetic field, which may enforce vertically rigid flow in the
front's wake and can explain the coherence of oscillations in the burst tail.