Recently a distinctive class of hard X ray (HXR) sources located in the
corona was found, which implies that the collisionally thick target model
(CTTM) applies even to the corona. We investigated whether this idea can
independently be verified by microwave radiations that have been known as the
best companion to HXRs. The study is made for the GOES M2.3 class flare
occurred on 2002 September 9 that were observed by the Reuven Ramaty High
Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (RHESSI) and the Owens Valley Solar Array
(OVSA). Interpreting the observed energy dependent variation of HXR source size
under the CTTM the coronal density should be as high as $5\times 10^{11}$
cm$^{-3}$ over the distance up to 12$"$. To explain the cut-off feature of
microwave spectrum at 3 GHz, we however, need density no higher than $1\times
10^{11}$ cm$^{-3}$. Additional constraints need to be placed on temperature and
magnetic field of the coronal source in order to reproduce the microwave
spectrum as a whole. Firstly, a spectral feature called the Razin suppression
requires the magnetic field in a range of 250--350 gauss along with high
viewing angles around 75$^{\rm o}$. Secondly, to avoid excess fluxes at high
frequencies due to the free-free emission that were not observed, we need a
high temperature $\geq2\times 10^7$ K. These two microwave spectral features,
Razzin suppression and free-free emissions, become more significant at regions
of high thermal plasma density and are essential for validating and for
determining additional parameters for the coronal HXR sources.