In this paper, we examine structured tensors which have sum-of-squares (SOS)
tensor decomposition, and study the SOS-rank of SOS tensor decomposition. We
first show that several classes of even order symmetric structured tensors
available in the literature have SOS tensor decomposition. These include
positive Cauchy tensors, weakly diagonally dominated tensors, $B_0$-tensors,
double $B$-tensors, quasi-double $B_0$-tensors, $MB_0$-tensors, $H$-tensors,
absolute tensors of positive semi-definite $Z$-tensors and extended
$Z$-tensors. We also examine the SOS-rank of SOS tensor decomposition and the
SOS-width for SOS tensor cones. The SOS-rank provides the minimal number of
squares in the SOS tensor decomposition, and, for a given SOS tensor cone, its
SOS-width is the maximum possible SOS-rank for all the tensors in this cone. We
first deduce an upper bound for general tensors that have SOS decomposition and
the SOS-width for general SOS tensor cone using the known results in the
literature of polynomial theory. Then, we provide an explicit sharper estimate
for the SOS-rank of SOS tensor decomposition with bounded exponent and identify
the SOS-width for the tensor cone consisting of all tensors with bounded
exponent that have SOS decompositions. Finally, as applications, we show how
the SOS tensor decomposition can be used to compute the minimum $H$-eigenvalue
of an even order symmetric extended $Z$-tensor and test the positive
definiteness of an associated multivariate form. Numerical experiments are also
provided to show the efficiency of the proposed numerical methods ranging from
small size to large size numerical examples.