In the last three decades, the Ultra Steep spectrum tecnique has been
exploited by many groups since it was demonstrated that radio sources with very
steep spectra (Alpha < -1.0) are good tracers of high-z radio galaxies (HzRGs;
z>2). Though more than 150 HzRGs have been discovered up to now with this
tecnique, little is known about its real effectiveness, as most of the ongoing
searches still have incomplete follow-up programs. By selecting a new
appropriate sample of USS sources from the MRC survey, the true searching
efficiency of the USS tecnique has been quantitatively demonstrated for the
first time in this paper. Moreover it was compared with that of an optical
search of HzRGs based on a simple cut of the galaxies r-band magnitude
distribution. When no bias other than the radio-spectrum steepness is applied,
the USS tecnique may be up to 4 times more efficient in selecting HzRGs with
respect to an optical search. Nevertheless, when the search is limited to
objects fainter than the POSS-II plates (r~21), the USS tecnique is still 2.5
times more efficient (epsilonUSS =0.52 vs. epsilon_OPT= 0.19). For an optical
search to reach a comparable efficiency it is necessary to select objects
fainter than r=23, but this implies that about half of the HzRGs are lost
because of the imposed magnitude bias. The advantage of the USS tecnique is
that a ~0.5 search efficiency is already reached at the POSS-II plates limit,
where all the optical identification work is done without telescopes. However,
this tecnique has the drawback that up to 40% of the HzRGs of the sample are
lost simply because of the applied spectral index bias.