The Galactic Center regions $-6^\circ \le l \le 6^\circ$ and $-0.8^\circ \le
b \le 0.87^\circ$ are surveyed with HCN J=1$-$0 line (88.6 GHz) on a 4$'$ grid
with the 14 m telescope at the Taeduk Radio Astronomy Observatory. The data
complement the previous $^{13}$CO, CS, and H$_2$CO measurements (Bally \etal
1988, Zylka \etal 1992) but cover a wider area with a better or comparable
resolution. The asymmetry in emission found in the $^{13}$CO observations by
Bally \etal (1988) is well confirmed in this study. Interestingly, the
asymmetry in HCN emission is more pronounced here: more than $80 \%$ of the
overall emission is found in the first quadrant ($l>0$) and $V_{LSR}>0$. Also
confirmed is the existence of several emission components in the regions
forbidden by the Galactic circular rotation. The HCN maps show clear absence of
both more outer galactic emissions and the 3 kpc arm component, which are both
visible in the $^{13}$CO map. This implies that the HCN emission lines are not
contaminated by foreground or background gas components. Therefore HCN data are
particularly useful in investigating the structures of molecular clouds in the
Galactic Center. The $\Delta V$s (FWHMs) of the most of the detected lines are
found to be very large, \ie, about $15\sim $55 km s$^{-1}$ with the mode at
$\Delta V \approx25$ km s$^{-1}$. The typical value of $\Delta V\approx 25$ km
s$^{-1}$ may imply that clouds with mass of an order of $10^6 \msun$ are common
in the GC region. Another trend found is that the maximum ${\Delta}V$ decreases
with $l$, which may be partly due to the overlapping effects of clouds.