The disagreement of the scaling of the correlation length xi between
experiment and the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) model for domain chaos was resolved.
The Swift-Hohenberg (SH) domain-chaos model was integrated numerically to
acquire test images to study the effect of a finite image-size on the
extraction of xi from the structure factor (SF). The finite image size had a
significant effect on the SF determined with the Fourier-transform (FT) method.
The maximum entropy method (MEM) was able to overcome this finite image-size
problem and produced fairly accurate SFs for the relatively small image sizes
provided by experiments.
  Correlation lengths often have been determined from the second moment of the
SF of chaotic patterns because the functional form of the SF is not known.
Integration of several test functions provided analytic results indicating that
this may not be a reliable method of extracting xi. For both a Gaussian and a
squared SH form, the correlation length xibar=1/sigma, determined from the
variance sigma^2 of the SF, has the same dependence on the control parameter
epsilon as the length xi contained explicitly in the functional forms. However,
for the SH and the Lorentzian forms we find xibar ~ xi^1/2.
  Results for xi determined from new experimental data by fitting the
functional forms directly to the experimental SF yielded xi ~ epsilon^-nu} with
nu ~= 1/4 for all four functions in the case of the FT method, but nu ~= 1/2,
in agreement with the GL prediction, in the the case of the MEM. Over a wide
range of epsilon and wave number k, the experimental SFs collapsed onto a
unique curve when appropriately scaled by xi.