We present a detailed U-V CMR analysis for 3 local (z<0.06) Abell (A85, A496,
A754) galaxy clusters, with 637 total spectroscopic members down to 0.1L^star.
We find that these clusters have similar CMRs with a mean color of U-V=1.4 at
M_V=-20+5logh, and narrow limits of intrinsic color scatter [0.047,0.079] and
slope [-0.094,-0.075]. The core cluster population of red galaxies follow CMRs
that are in close agreement with that of Coma. We test how sensitive the CMR
uniformity is to variations in color aperture size and sample selection, and
find slightly wider limits of scatter [0.047,0.112] and slope [-0.104,-0.054].
This upper limit for U-V scatter is consistent with z_form>1.2 for the bulk of
the stars in red cluster galaxies, and a maximum age spread of 5.2 Gyr. We note
that none of the slopes exhibit a break as claimed by Metcalf et al., and using
colors from equal-light apertures does not remove the CMR slope. Our findings
expand the single Coma data point and provide a much-needed z=0 base-line for
comparisons to high-z cluster U-V CMRs. The CMR scatter range in low-z clusters
is consistent with that found in high-z clusters, suggesting little evolution
in the stars of red cluster galaxies out to z~1. To identify the most recently
accreted galaxies, we divide each cluster's membership into 3 galaxy
populations based on CMR-relative U-V color. Blue galaxies make up 18-23% of
each cluster's galaxy counts above 0.1L^star. We test the hypothesis that
CMR-relative color represents rough cluster infall times and find that blue
galaxies are spatially, kinematically, and morphologically distinct from red
cluster members. These distinctions provide further evidence that bluer members
are indeed more recently accreted field spirals as expected in an hierarchical
universe. (abridged)