A significant number of cataclysmic variables were detected as hard X-ray
sources in the INTEGRAL survey, most of them of the magnetic intermediate polar
type. We present a detailed X-ray broad-band study of two new sources, IGR
J00234+6141 and 1RXS J213344.1+510725, that allow us to classify them as secure
members of the intermediate polar class. Timing and spectral analysis of IGR
J00234+6141 are based on a XMM-Newton observation and INTEGRAL publicly
available data. For 1RXS J213344.1+510725 we use XMM-Newton and Suzaku
observations at different epochs, as well as INTEGRAL publicly available data.
We determine a spin period of 561.64 +/- 0.56 s for the white dwarf in IGR
J00234+6141. The X-ray pulses are observed up to about 2 keV. From XMM-Newton
and Suzaku observations of 1RXS J213344.1+510725, we find a rotational period
of 570.862 +/- 0.034 s. The observations span three epochs where the pulsation
is observed to change at different energies both in amplitude and shape. In
both objects, the spectral analysis spanned over a wide energy range, from 0.3
to 100 keV, shows the presence of multiple emission components absorbed by
dense material. The X-ray spectrum of IGR J00234+6141 is consistent with a
multi-temperature plasma with a maximum temperature of about 50 keV. In 1RXS
J213344.1+510725, multiple optically thin components are inferred, as well as
an optically thick (blackbody) soft X-ray emission with a temperature of about
100 eV. This latter adds 1RXS J213344.1+510725 to the growing group of soft
X-ray intermediate polars. (abridged)