An inhomogeneous cosmological magnetic field creates vortical perturbations
that survive Silk damping on much smaller scales than compressional modes. This
ensures that there is no sharp cut-off in anisotropy on arc-minute scales. As
we had pointed out earlier, tangled magnetic fields, if they exist, will then
be a potentially important contributor to small-angular scale CMBR
anisotropies. Several ongoing and new experiments, are expected to probe the
very small angular scales, corresponding to multipoles with l>1000. In view of
this observational focus, we revisit the predicted signals due to primordial
tangled magnetic fields, for different spectra and different cosmological
parameters. We also identify a new regime, where the photon mean-free path
exceeds the scale of the perturbation, which dominates the predicted signal at
very high l. A scale-invariant spectrum of tangled fields which redshifts to a
present value B_{0}=3\times 10^{-9} Gauss, produces temperature anisotropies at
the 10 micro Kelvin level between l ~ 1000-3000. Larger signals result if the
univese is lambda dominated, if the baryon density is larger, or if the
spectral index of magnetic tangles is steeper, n > -3. The signal will also
have non-Gaussian statistics. We predict the distinctive form of the increased
power expected in the microwave background at high l in the presence of
significant tangled magnetic fields. We may be on the verge of detecting or
ruling out the presence of tangled magnetic fields which are strong enough to
influence the formation of large-scale structure in the Universe.