A mixed quantum-classical approach is introduced which allows the dynamical
response of molecules driven far from equilibrium to be modeled. This method is
applied to the interaction of molecules with intense, short-duration laser
pulses. The electronic response of the molecule is described using
time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) and the resulting Kohn-Sham
equations are solved numerically using finite difference techniques in
conjunction with local and global adaptations of an underlying grid in
curvilinear coordinates. Using this approach, simulations can be carried out
for a wide range of molecules and both all-electron and pseudopotential
calculations are possible. The approach is applied to the study of high
harmonic generation in N2 and benzene using linearly-polarized laser pulses
and, to the best of our knowledge, the results for benzene represent the first
TDDFT calculations of high harmonic generation in benzene using linearly
polarized laser pulses. For N2 an enhancement of the cut-off harmonics is
observed whenever the laser polarization is aligned perpendicular to the
molecular axis. This enhancement is attributed to the symmetry properties of
the Kohn-Sham orbital that responds predominantly to the pulse. In benzene we
predict that a suppression in the cut-off harmonics occurs whenever the laser
polarization is aligned parallel to the molecular plane. We attribute this
suppression to the symmetry-induced response of the highest-occupied molecular
orbital.