In this paper we analyse different chronometers based on the models of
chemical evolution developed in Chamcham, Pitts \& Tayler (1993; hereafter CPT)
and Chamcham \& Tayler (1994; hereafter CT). In those papers we discussed the
ability of our models to reproduce the observed G-dwarf distribution in the
solar neighbourhood, age-metallicity relation and radial chemical abundance
gradients. We now examine their response to the predictions of cosmochronology.
We use the recent production ratios of the actinide pairs $^{235}$U/$^{238}$U
and $^{232}$Th/$^{238}$U provided by Cowan, Thielemann \& Truran (1991) and the
observed abundance ratios from Anders \& Grevesse (1989) to determine the
duration of nucleosynthesis in the solar neighbourhood, and thus to determine
maximum likelihood estimates and confidence intervals for the infall parameter,
$\beta$, which controls the growth rate of the disc in our models. We compare
our predictions for the age of the disc with the age of the galaxy estimated
from models of white dwarf cooling and from the age of globular clusters. From
our statistical analysis we find that these three methods of age prediction
appear to be consistent for a range of maximum likelihood values of $\beta$
which is in good agreement with the values considered in CPT and CT, which were
found to give a good fit to the observational data examined in those papers. We
also briefly consider the consistency of our results with the age of the
universe predicted in different cosmological models -- a topic which we will
investigate more fully in future work.