We present an analytical method for studying the changes of the orbital
characteristics of binary systems with circular orbits due to a kick velocity
imparted to the newborn neutron star during a supernova explosion (SN).
Assuming a Maxwellian distribution of kick velocities we derive analytical
expressions for the distribution functions of orbital separations and
eccentricities immediately after the explosion, of orbital separations after
circularization of the post-SN orbits, and of systemic velocities of binaries
that remain bound after the explosion. These distributions of binary
characteristics can be used to perform analytical population synthesis
calculations of various types of binaries, the formation of which involves a
supernova explosion. We study in detail the dependence of the derived
distributions on the kick velocity and the pre-SN characteristics, we identify
all the limits imposed on the post-SN orbital characteristics, and we discuss
their implications for the population of X-ray binaries and double neutron star
systems. We show that large kick velocities do not necessarily result in large
systemic velocities; for typical X-ray binary progenitors the maximum post-SN
systemic velocity is comparable to the relative orbital velocity prior to the
explosion. We also find that, unless accretion-induced collapse is a viable
formation channel, X-ray binaries in globular clusters have most probably been
formed by stellar dynamical interactions only, and not directly from primordial
binaries.