Several recent papers have made claims about the detection of an asymmetric
distribution of large scale power in the cosmic microwave background anisotropy
as measured by the WMAP satellite. In this paper, we investigate how the
estimates of particular cosmological parameters vary when inferred from power
spectra computed separately on the northern and southern hemispheres in three
frames of reference. We focus our investigation on the three specific
parameters to which the analysis is most sensitive, the spectral index n, the
amplitude of fluctuations A and the optical depth tau. When using a gaussian
prior on the spectral index n centred at n=1 with a flat prior on the optical
depth tau, the preferred value for the optical depth (derived in the reference
frame of maximum asymmetry) in the north is tau=0 with upper limit tau<0.08,
whereas in the south we find tau=0.24 +0.06/-0.07 (68% confidence level). The
latter result is inconsistent with tau=0 at the 2 sigma level. The estimated
optical depth of tau=0.17 on the (nearly) full sky found by the WMAP
collaboration and confirmed independently here, could thus in large part
originate in structure associated with the southern hemisphere. Furthermore,
putting a prior on tau, we find values of the spectral index which are
inconsistent between the opposite hemispheres. The exact values depend on the
prior on tau. While our results should not be considered more than suggestive,
the significance of the parameter differences in the two hemispheres being
typically of order 2 sigma, if they are confirmed with the higher sensitivity
WMAP 2-year data then it may be necessary to question the assumption of
cosmological isotropy and the conceptual framework within which studies of the
CMB anisotropy are made.