Programs based on hash tables and Burrows-Wheeler are very fast for mapping
short reads to genomes but have low accuracy in the presence of mismatches and
gaps. Such reads can be aligned accurately with the Smith-Waterman algorithm
but it can take hours and days to map millions of reads even for bacteria
genomes. We introduce a GPU program called MaxSSmap with the aim of achieving
comparable accuracy to Smith-Waterman but with faster runtimes. Similar to most
programs MaxSSmap identifies a local region of the genome followed by exact
alignment. Instead of using hash tables or Burrows-Wheeler in the first part,
MaxSSmap calculates maximum scoring subsequence score between the read and
disjoint fragments of the genome in parallel on a GPU and selects the highest
scoring fragment for exact alignment. We evaluate MaxSSmap's accuracy and
runtime when mapping simulated Illumina E.coli and human chromosome one reads
of different lengths and 10\% to 30\% mismatches with gaps to the E.coli genome
and human chromosome one. We also demonstrate applications on real data by
mapping ancient horse DNA reads to modern genomes and unmapped paired reads
from NA12878 in 1000 genomes. We show that MaxSSmap attains comparable high
accuracy and low error to fast Smith-Waterman programs yet has much lower
runtimes. We show that MaxSSmap can map reads rejected by BWA and NextGenMap
with high accuracy and low error much faster than if Smith-Waterman were used.
On short read lengths of 36 and 51 both MaxSSmap and Smith-Waterman have lower
accuracy compared to at higher lengths. On real data MaxSSmap produces many
alignments with high score and mapping quality that are not given by NextGenMap
and BWA. The MaxSSmap source code is freely available from
http://www.cs.njit.edu/usman/MaxSSmap.