The probability distribution of the magnitude can be modeled by an
exponential distribution according to the Gutenberg-Richter relation. Two
alternatives are the truncated exponential distribution (TED) and the cut-off
exponential distribution (CED). The TED is frequently used in seismic hazard
analysis although it has a weak point: When two TEDs with equal parameters
except the upper bound magnitude are mixed, then the resulting distribution is
not a TED. Inversely, it is also not possible to split a TED of a seismic
region into TEDs of sub-regions with equal parameters except the upper bound
magnitude. This weakness is a principal problem as seismic regions are
constructed scientific objects and not natural units. We overcome it by the
generalization of the above-mentioned exponential distributions: the
generalized truncated exponential distribution (GTED). Therein, identical
exponential distributions are mixed by the probability distribution of the
correct cut-off points. This distribution model is flexible in the vicinity of
the upper bound magnitude and is equal to the exponential distribution for
smaller magnitudes. Additionally, the exponential distributions TED and CED are
special cases of the GTED. We discuss the possible ways of estimating its
parameters and introduce the normalized spacing for this purpose. Furthermore,
we present methods for geographic aggregation and differentiation of the GTED
and demonstrate the potential and universality of our simple approach by
applying it to empirical data. The considerable improvement by the GTED in
contrast to the TED is indicated by a large difference between the
corresponding values of the Akaike information criterion.