The main topic of this present thesis is the study of the asymptotic
behaviour of sequences modulo 1. In particular, by using ergodic and dynamical
methods, a new insight to problems concerning the asymptotic behaviour of
multidimensional sequences can be given, and a criterion to construct new
multidimensional uniformly distributed sequences is provided. The starting
point to do this, is to look at the orbit, i.e. the sequence of iterates, of a
uniquely ergodic transformation T defined on [0,1]. The unique ergodicity of
the transformation has the following consequence: the orbit of x under T is a
uniformly distributed sequence. We devoted the first chapter entirely on
classical topics in uniform distribution theory (UDT) and ergodic theory. This
provides the basic requirements for a complete understanding of the following
chapters, even to a reader who is not familiar with the subject. Chapter 2
deals with the LS-sequences of points. In Chapter 3, the method used to
construct the transformation T is the so-called cutting-stacking technique. In
particular, we were able to prove the ergodicity of T and that the orbit of the
origin under this map coincides with an LS-sequence which turns out to be a
low-discrepancy one. In Chapter 4, another approach from ergodic theory is
used. This approach is based on the study of dynamical systems arising from
numeration systems defined by linear recurrences. In this way we could not only
prove that the transformation T defined in Chapter 3 is uniquely ergodic, but
we could also construct multidimensional uniformly distributed sequences. In
Chapter 5 we found bounds for integrals of two-dimensional, piecewise constant
functions with respect to copulas. To solve this problem, we drew a connection
to linear assignment problems. The approximation technique was applied to
problems in financial mathematics and UDT.