Introduced path connects the topics in common concept: integral information
measure and symmetry. Initial path' sequence axiomatic probability
distributions of stochastic multidimensional process transfers each priory to
posteriori probabilities alternating probabilities over process trajectory.
Emerging Bayesian probabilities entropy defines process uncertainty measure.
Probability transitions model interactive random process generated by idealized
virtual measurements of uncertainty as observable process of potential
observer. When the measurements test uncertainty by interactive impulses its
inferring certain posteriori probability starts converting uncertainty to
certainty information. Observable uncertain impulse becomes certain control
extracting maximum information from each observed minima and initiating
information observer with internal process during conversion. Multiple trial
actions produce observed frequency of the events measured probability actually
occurred. Dual minimax principle of maxmim extraction and minimax consumption
information is mathematical law whose variation equations determine observer
structure and functionally unify regularities. Impulse controls cutoff the
minimax, convert external process to internal information micro and
macrodynamics through integral measuring, multiple trials, verification
symmetry, cooperation, enfoldment in logical hierarchical information network
IN and feedback path to observations; IN high level logic originates observer
intelligence requesting new quality information. Functional regularities create
integral logic selfoperating observations, inner dynamical and geometrical
structures with boundary shaped by IN information geometry in timespace
cooperative processes, and physical substances, observer
cognition,intelligence. Logic holds invariance information and physical
regularities of minimax law.