Using infrared photometry from the Spitzer Space Telescope, we perform the
first inventory of aromatic feature emission (AFE, but also commonly referred
to as PAH emission) for a statistically complete sample of star-forming
galaxies in the local volume. The photometric methodology involved is
calibrated and demonstrated to recover the aromatic fraction of the IRAC 8
micron flux with a standard deviation of 6% for a training set of 40 SINGS
galaxies (ranging from stellar to dust dominated) with both suitable
mid-infrared Spitzer IRS spectra and equivalent photometry. A potential factor
of two improvement could be realized with suitable 5.5 and 10 micron
photometry, such as what may be provided in the future by JWST. The resulting
technique is then applied to mid-infrared photometry for the 258 galaxies from
the Local Volume Legacy (LVL) survey, a large sample dominated in number by
low-luminosity dwarf galaxies for which obtaining comparable mid-infrared
spectroscopy is not feasible. We find the total LVL luminosity due to five
strong aromatic features in the 8 micron complex to be 2.47E10 solar
luminosities with a mean volume density of 8.8E6 solar luminosities per cubic
Megaparsec. Twenty-four of the LVL galaxies, corresponding to a luminosity cut
at M = -18.22 in the B band, account for 90% of the aromatic luminosity. Using
oxygen abundances compiled from the literature for 129 of the 258 LVL galaxies,
we find a correlation between metallicity and the aromatic to total infrared
emission ratio but not the aromatic to total 8 micron dust emission ratio. A
possible explanation is that metallicity plays a role in the abundance of
aromatic molecules relative to the total dust content, but other factors such
as star formation and/or the local radiation field affect the excitation of
those molecules.