Observational and theoretical studies point to microquasars (MQs) as possible
counterparts of a significant fraction of the unidentified gamma-ray sources
detected so far. At present, a proper scenario to explain the emission beyond
soft X-rays from these objects is not known, nor what the precise connection is
between the radio and the high-energy radiation. We develop a new model where
the MQ jet is dynamically dominated by cold protons and radiatively dominated
by relativistic leptons. The matter content and power of the jet are both
related with the accretion process. The magnetic field is assumed to be close
to equipartition, although it is attached to and dominated by the jet matter.
For the relativistic particles in the jet, their maximum energy depends on both
the acceleration efficiency and the energy losses. The model takes into account
the interaction of the relativistic jet particles with the magnetic field and
all the photon and matter fields. Such interaction produces significant amounts
of radiation from radio to very high energies through synchrotron, relativistic
Bremsstrahlung, and inverse Compton (IC) processes. Variability of the emission
produced by changes in the accretion process (e.g. via orbital eccentricity) is
also expected. The effects of the gamma-ray absorption by the external photon
fields on the gamma-ray spectrum have been taken into account, revealing clear
spectral features that might be observed. This model is consistent to the
accretion scenario, energy conservation laws, and current observational
knowledge, and can provide deeper physical information of the source when
tested against multiwavelength data.