The presence of narrow high-temperature emission lines from nitrogen-rich gas
close to SN 1987A has been the principal observational constraint on the evolu-
tionary status of the supernova's progenitor. A new analysis of the complete
five-year set of low and high resolution IUE ultraviolet spectra of SN 1987A
(1987.2--1992.3) provide fluxes for the N V 1240, N IV] 1486, He II 1640, OIII]
1665, NIII] 1751, and CIII] 1908 lines with significantly reduced random and
systematic errors and reveals significant short-term fluctuations in the light
curves. The N V, N IV] and N III] lines turn on sequentially over 15 to 20 days
and show a progression from high to low ionization potential, implying an ioni-
zation gradient in the emitting region. The line emission turns on suddenly at
83+/-4 days after the explosion, as defined by N IV]. The N III] line reaches
peak luminosity at 399+/-15 days. A ring radius of (6.24+/-0.20)E{17} cm and
inclination of 41.0+/-3.9 is derived from these times, assuming a circular
ring. The probable role of resonant scattering in the N V light curve
introduces systematic errors that leads us to exclude this line from the timing
analysis. A new nebular analysis yields improved CNO abundance ratios
N/C=6.1+/-1.1 and N/O=1.7+/-0.5, confirming the nitrogen enrichment found in
our previous paper. From the late-time behavior of the light curves we find
that the emission origi- nates from progressively lower density gas. We
estimate the emitting mass near maximum (roughly 400 days) to be roughly
4.7E{-2} solar masses, assuming a filling factor of unity and an electron
density of 2.6E4 cm^{-3}. These results are discussed in the context of current
models for the emission and hydrodynamics of the ring.