Context : The properties of the inner disks of bright Herbig AeBe stars have
been studied with near infrared (NIR) interferometry and high resolution
spectroscopy. The continuum and a few molecular gas species have been studied
close to the central star; however, sensitivity problems limit direct
information about the inner disks of the fainter T Tauri stars.
  Aims : Our aim is to measure some of the properties of the inner regions of
disks surrounding southern T Tauri stars.
  Methods : We performed a survey with the PIONIER recombiner instrument at
H-band of 21 T Tauri stars. The baselines used ranged from 11 m to 129 m,
corresponding to a maximum resolution of 3mas (0.45 au at 150 pc).
  Results : Thirteen disks are resolved well and the visibility curves are
fully sampled as a function of baseline in the range 45-130 m for these 13
objects. A simple qualitative examination of visibility profiles allows us to
identify a rapid drop-off in the visibilities at short baselines in 8 resolved
disks. This is indicative of a significant contribution from an extended
contribution of light from the disk. We demonstrate that this component is
compatible with scattered light, providing strong support to a prediction made
by Pinte et al. (2008). The amplitude of the drop-off and the amount of dust
thermal emission changes from source to source suggesting that each disk is
different. A by-product of the survey is the identification of a new
milli-arcsec separation binary: WW Cha. Spectroscopic and interferometric data
of AK Sco have also been fitted with a binary and disk model.
  Conclusions : Visibility data are reproduced well when thermal emission and
scattering form dust are fully considered. The inner radii measured are
consistent with the expected dust sublimation radii. Modelling of AK Sco
suggests a likely coplanarity between the disk and the binary's orbital plane