In this short review we describe some of the latest endeavours to understand
the activity around Black Holes. First, it has been possible to demonstrate
that a large part of the electromagnetic emission observed can be interpreted
as arising from the jet; this explains at once all spectral features and their
variability. Second we dwell on the concept that merging galaxies naturally
lead to merging Black Holes. Here we emphasize two aspects: a) the torque
exerted by the binary Black Holes carves a torus like distribution out of the
stellar population near to the Black Hole binary; b) We consider the last
stages of the Black Hole binary merger, taking into account the angle between
the spin of the primary Black Hole, and the orbital spin of the second Black
Hole. We show that the loss of orbital angular momentum is very strongly
spin-dependent; for large angles between the two spins the angular momentum
loss is strongly inhibited, allowing spin flip of the primary Black Hole which
preserves a high angular momentum relative to the maximum allowed. This ensures
that both before and after the merger the accretion disk may reach to very
small distances from the central Black Hole, with very high local temperatures
right near the base of the jet: This is especially interesting in the case that
forming the jet requires the formation of an ADAF like ring near the inner edge
of the disk, as suggested by some earlier work. It also may have consequences
for the initial hadronic interactions right near the base of the jet. Finally,
this may also have important implications for the discovery of gravitational
radiation bursts from the merger of black holes; the spin dependence needs to
be taken into account.