We investigate the environment in the vicinity of the supernova remnant (SNR)
G59.5+0.1 and identify all young stellar objects (YSOs) around the SNR, to
derive the physical properties, obtain insight into the star-formation history,
and further see whether SNR G59.5+0.1 can trigger star formation in this
region. We have performed the submillimeter/millimeter observations in CO lines
toward the southeast of SNR G59.5+0.1 with the KOSMA 3m Telescope. High
integrated CO line intensity ratio R(CO 3-2/CO 2-1) is identified as one good
signature of SNR-MCs (molecular clouds) interacting system. To investigate the
impact of SNR G59.5+0.1 on the process of star formation, we used GLIMPSE I
Catalog to select YSOs (including class I and class II sources). CO emission in
an arc-like shape and mid-infrared 8.28 um emission are well coincident with
SNR G59.5+0.1, which has the total mass of 1.1*10^{4}Msun and fully cover open
cluster NGC 6823. Three molecular clumps were identified in the CO molecular
arc, each clump shows the broad line wing emission, indicating that there are
three outflows motion. The integrated CO line intensity ratio (R(CO 3-2/CO 2-1)
for the whole molecular arc is between 0.48 and 1.57. The maximum value is
1.57, which is much higher than previous measurements of individual Galactic
MCs. The CO molecular arc has a line intensity ratio gradient. SNR G59.5+0.1 is
in adiabatic expansion phase. The age of the SNR is 8.6*10^{4} yr. Based on
GLIMPSE I Catalog 625 young stellar objects (YSOs) candidates (including 176
class I sources and 449 class II sources) are selected. The timescales for
class 0, class I and class II sources are <10^{4} yr, ~10^{5} yr, and ~10^{6}
yr, respectively. The number of YSOs are significantly enhanced in the
interacting regions, indicating the presence of some recently formed stars.