IRAS flux densities, redshifts, and infrared luminosities are reported for
all sources identified in the IRAS Revised Bright Galaxy Sample (RBGS), a
complete flux-limited survey of all extragalactic objects with total 60 micron
flux density greater than 5.24 Jy, covering the entire sky surveyed by IRAS at
Galactic latitude |b| > 5 degrees. The RBGS includes 629 objects, with a median
(mean) sample redshift of 0.0082 (0.0126) and a maximum redshift of 0.0876. The
RBGS supersedes the previous two-part IRAS Bright Galaxy Samples, which were
compiled before the final ("Pass 3") calibration of the IRAS Level 1 Archive in
May 1990. The RBGS also makes use of more accurate and consistent automated
methods to measure the flux of objects with extended emission. Basic properties
of the RBGS sources are summarized, including estimated total infrared
luminosities, as well as updates to cross-identifications with sources from
optical galaxy catalogs established using the NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database
(NED). In addition, an atlas of images from the Digitized Sky Survey with
overlays of the IRAS position uncertainty ellipse and annotated scale bars is
provided for ease in visualizing the optical morphology in context with the
angular and metric size of each object. The revised bolometric infrared
luminosity function, phi(L_ir), for infrared bright galaxies in the local
Universe remains best fit by a double power law, phi(L_ir) ~ L_ir^alpha, with
alpha = -0.6 (+/- 0.1), and alpha = -2.2 (+/- 0.1) below and above the
"characteristic" infrared luminosity L_ir ~ 10^{10.5} L_solar, respectively.
(Abridged)