We present a determination of the optical/UV AGN luminosity function and its
evolution, based on a large sample of faint (R<24) QSOs identified in the
COMBO-17 survey. Using multi-band photometry in 17 filters within 350nm <
lambda_obs < 930nm, we could simultaneously determine photometric redshifts
with an accuracy of sigma_z<0.03 and obtain spectral energy distributions. The
redshift range covered by the sample is 1.2<z<4.8, which implies that even at
z~3, the sample reaches below luminosities corresponding to M_B = -23,
conventionally employed to distinguish between Seyfert galaxies and quasars. We
clearly detect a broad plateau-like maximum of quasar activity around z~2 and
map out the smooth turnover between z~1 and z~4. The shape of the LF is
characterised by some mild curvature, but no sharp `break' is present within
the range of luminosities covered. Using only the COMBO-17 data, the evolving
LF can be adequately described by either a pure density evolution (PDE) or a
pure luminosity evolution (PLE) model. However, the absence of a strong L*-like
feature in the shape of the LF inhibits a robust distinction between these
modes. We present a robust estimate for the integrated UV luminosity generation
by AGN as a function of redshift. We find that the LF continues to rise even at
the lowest luminosities probed by our survey, but that the slope is
sufficiently shallow that the contribution of low-luminosity AGN to the UV
luminosity density is negligible. Although our sample reaches much fainter flux
levels than previous data sets, our results on space densities and LF slopes
are completely consistent with extrapolations from recent major surveys such as
SDSS and 2QZ.