We use the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method to study the
ground and low-lying excited states of three kinds of uniform and dimerized
alternating spin chains. The DMRG procedure is also employed to obtain
low-temperature thermodynamic properties of these systems. We consider a 2N
site system with spins $s_1$ and $s_2$ alternating from site to site and
interacting via a Heisenberg antiferromagnetic exchange. The three systems
studied correspond to $(s_1 ,s_2 )$ being equal to $(1,1/2),(3/2,1/2)$ and
$(3/2,1)$; all of them have very similar properties. The ground state is found
to be ferrimagnetic with total spin $s_G =N(s_1 - s_2)$. We find that there is
a gapless excitation to a state with spin $s_G -1$, and a gapped excitation to
a state with spin $s_G +1$. Surprisingly, the correlation length in the ground
state is found to be very small for this gapless system. The DMRG analysis
shows that the chain is susceptible to a conditional spin-Peierls instability.
Furthermore, our studies of the magnetization, magnetic susceptibility $\chi$
and specific heat show strong magnetic-field dependences. The product $\chi T$
shows a minimum as a function of temperature T at low magnetic fields; the
minimum vanishes at high magnetic fields. This low-field behavior is in
agreement with earlier experimental observations. The specific heat shows a
maximum as a function of temperature, and the height of the maximum increases
sharply at high magnetic fields. Although all the three systems show
qualitatively similar behavior, there are some notable quantitative differences
between the systems in which the site spin difference, $|s_1 - s_2|$, is large
and small respectively.