In the non-linear phase of a dynamo process, the back-reaction of the
magnetic field upon the turbulent motion results in a decrease of the
turbulence level and therefore in a suppression of both the magnetic field
amplification (the alpha-quenching effect) and the turbulent magnetic
diffusivity (the eta-quenching effect). While the former has been widely
explored, the effects of eta-quenching in the magnetic field evolution have
rarely been considered. In this work we investigate the role of the suppression
of diffusivity in a flux-transport solar dynamo model that also includes a
non-linear alpha-quenching term. Our results indicate that, although for
alpha-quenching the dependence of the magnetic field amplification with the
quenching factor is nearly linear, the magnetic field response to eta-quenching
is non-linear and spatially non-uniform. We have found that the magnetic field
can be locally amplified in this case, forming long-lived structures whose
maximum amplitude can be up to ~2.5 times larger at the tachocline and up to ~2
times larger at the center of the convection zone than in models without
quenching. However, this amplification leads to unobservable effects and to a
worse distribution of the magnetic field in the butterfly diagram. Since the
dynamo cycle period increases when the efficiency of the quenching increases,
we have also explored whether the eta-quenching can cause a diffusion-dominated
model to drift into an advection-dominated regime. We have found that models
undergoing a large suppression of the diffusivity produce a strong segregation
of magnetic fields that may lead to unsteady dynamo-oscillations. On the other
hand, an initially diffusion-dominated model undergoing a small suppression in
eta remains in the diffusion-dominated regime.