This is the second in a series of papers in which we compare Tully-Fisher
(TF) data from the Mark III Catalog with predicted peculiar velocities based on
the IRAS galaxy redshift survey and gravitational instability theory, using a
rigorous maximum likelihood method called VELMOD. In Paper I (Willick et al.
1997b), we we applied the method to a $cz_{LG} \leq 3000$ km/sec, 838-galaxy TF
sample and found $\beta_I=0.49\pm 0.07,$ where $\beta_I\equiv \Omega^{0.6}/b_I$
and $b_I$ is the linear biasing parameter for IRAS galaxies. In this paper we
increase the redshift limit to $cz_{LG}=7500$ km/sec, thereby enlarging the
sample to 1876 galaxies. The expanded sample now includes the W91PP and CF
subsamples of the Mark III catalog, in addition to the A82 and MAT subsamples
already considered in Paper I.
  We implement VELMOD using both the forward and inverse forms of the TF
relation, and allow for a more general form of the quadrupole velocity residual
detected in Paper I. We find $\beta_I=0.50\pm 0.04$ (1-sigma error) at 300
km/sec smoothing of the IRAS-predicted velocity field. The fit residuals are
spatially incoherent for $\beta_I=0.5,$ indicating that the IRAS plus
quadrupole velocity field is a good fit to the TF data. If we eliminate the
quadrupole we obtain a worse fit, but a similar value for $\beta_I$ of $0.54\pm
0.04.$ Changing the IRAS smoothing scale to 500 km/sec has almost no effect on
the best $\beta_I.$ We find evidence for a density-dependence of the
small-scale velocity dispersion, $\sigma_v(\delta_g)\simeq (100 + 35 \delta_g)$
km/sec.