In this paper, we develop parametrized positivity satisfying flux limiters
for the high order finite difference Runge-Kutta weighted essentially
non-oscillatory (WENO) scheme solving compressible Euler equations to maintain
positive density and pressure. Negative density and pressure, which often leads
to simulation blow-ups or nonphysical solutions, emerges from many high
resolution computations in some extreme cases. The methodology we propose in
this paper is a nontrivial generalization of the parametrized maximum principle
preserving flux limiters for high order finite difference schemes solving
scalar hyperbolic conservation laws [22, 10, 20]. To preserve the maximum
principle, the high order flux is limited towards a first order monotone flux,
where the limiting procedures are designed by decoupling linear maximum
principle constraints. High order schemes with such flux limiters are shown to
preserve the high order accuracy via local truncation error analysis and by
extensive numerical experiments with mild CFL constraints. The parametrized
flux limiting approach is generalized to the Euler system to preserve the
positivity of density and pressure of numerical solutions via decoupling some
nonlinear constraints. Compared with existing high order positivity preserving
approaches [24, 26, 25], our proposed algorithm is positivity preserving by the
design; it is computationally efficient and maintains high order spatial and
temporal accuracy in our extensive numerical tests. Numerical tests are
performed to demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed new
algorithm.