We have constructed a grid of non-LTE disk models for a wide range of black
hole mass and mass accretion rate, for several values of viscosity parameter
alpha, and for two extreme values of the black hole spin: the maximum-rotation
Kerr black hole, and the Schwarzschild (non-rotating) black hole. Our procedure
calculates self-consistently the vertical structure of all disk annuli together
with the radiation field, without any approximations imposed on the optical
thickness of the disk, and without any ad hoc approximations to the behavior of
the radiation intensity. The total spectrum of a disk is computed by summing
the spectra of the individual annuli, taking into account the general
relativistic transfer function. The grid covers nine values of the black hole
mass between M = 1/8 and 32 billion solar masses with a two-fold increase of
mass for each subsequent value; and eleven values of the mass accretion rate,
each a power of 2 times 1 solar mass/year. The highest value of the accretion
rate corresponds to 0.3 Eddington. We show the vertical structure of individual
annuli within the set of accretion disk models, along with their local emergent
flux, and discuss the internal physical self-consistency of the models. We then
present the full disk-integrated spectra, and discuss a number of
observationally interesting properties of the models, such as
optical/ultraviolet colors, the behavior of the hydrogen Lyman limit region,
polarization, and number of ionizing photons. Our calculations are far from
definitive in terms of the input physics, but generally we find that our models
exhibit rather red optical/UV colors. Flux discontinuities in the region of the
hydrogen Lyman limit are only present in cool, low luminosity models, while
hotter models exhibit blueshifted changes in spectral slope.