We present the first calculations of mass transfer via RLOF for a binary
system with a significant eccentricity using our new binary stellar evolution
code. The study focuses on a 1.50+1.40 Msun main sequence binary with an
eccentricity of 0.25, and an orbital period of about 0.7 d. The reaction of the
stellar components due to mass transfer is analyzed, and the evolution of mass
transfer during the periastron passage is compared to recent smooth particle
hydrodynamics (SPH) simulations. The impact of asynchronism and non-zero
eccentricity on the Roche lobe radius, and the effects of tidal and rotational
deformation on the stars' structures, are also investigated. Calculations were
performed using the state-of-the-art binary evolution code BINSTAR, which
calculates simultaneously the structure of the two stars and the evolution of
the orbital parameters. The evolution of the mass transfer rate during an orbit
has a Gaussian-like shape, with a maximum at periastron, in qualitative
agreement with SPH simulations. The Roche lobe radius is modified by the donor
star's spin and the orbital eccentricity. This has a significant impact on both
the duration and the rate of mass transfer. We find that below some critical
rotation rate, mass transfer never occurs, while above some threshold, mass is
transferred over the entire orbit. Tidal and rotational deformation of the
donor star causes it to become over-sized, enhancing the mass transfer rate
further by about a factor of ten, leading to non-conservative mass transfer.
The modulation of mass transfer rate with orbital phase produces short-term
variability in the surface luminosity and radius of each star. The longer-term
behaviour shows, in accordance with studies of circular systems with radiative
stars, that the donor becomes ever small and under-luminous, while the converse
is the case for the accretor.