A study is presented of classical field configurations describing nonabelian
vortices in two spatial dimensions, when a global \( SO(3) \) symmetry is
spontaneously broken to a discrete group \( \IK \) isomorphic to the group of
integers mod 4. The vortices in this model are characterized by the nonabelian
fundamental group \(\pi_1 (SO(3)/{\IK}) \), which is isomorphic to the group of
quaternions. We present an ansatz describing isolated vortices and prove that
it is stable to perturbations. Kinematic constraints are derived which imply
that at a finite temperature, only two species of vortices are stable to decay,
due to `dissociation'. The latter process is the nonabelian analogue of the
instability of charge \(|q| >1 \) abelian vortices to dissociation into those
with charge \(|q| = 1\). The energy of configurations containing at maximum two
vortex-antivortex pairs, is then computed. When the pairs are all of the same
type, we find the usual Coulombic interaction energy as in the abelian case.
When they are different, one finds novel interactions which are a departure
from Coulomb like behavior. Therefore one can compute the grand canonical
partition function (GCPF) for thermal pair creation of nonabelian vortices, in
the approximation where the fugacities for vortices of each type are small. It
is found that the vortex fugacities depend on a real continuous parameter \(
a\) which characterize the degeneracy of the vacuum. Depending on the relative
sizes of these fugacities, the vortex gas will be dominated by one of either of
the two types mentioned above. In these regimes, we expect the standard
Kosterlitz-Thouless phase transitions to occur, as in systems of abelian
vortices in 2-dimensions. Between these two regimes, the gas contains pairs of
both types, so nonabelian effects will be important.