We present two NuSTAR observations of the local Seyfert 2 active galactic
nucleus (AGN) and an ultraluminous X-ray source (ULX) candidate in NGC 5643.
Together with archival data from Chandra, XMM-Newton and Swift-BAT, we perform
a high-quality broadband spectral analysis of the AGN over two decades in
energy ($\sim$0.5-100 keV). Previous X-ray observations suggested that the AGN
is obscured by a Compton-thick (CT) column of obscuring gas along our
line-of-sight. However, the lack of high-quality $\gtrsim$ 10 keV observations,
together with the presence of a nearby X-ray luminous source, NGC 5643 X-1, had
left significant uncertainties in the characterization of the nuclear spectrum.
NuSTAR now enables the AGN and NGC 5643 X-1 to be separately resolved above 10
keV for the first time and allows a direct measurement of the absorbing column
density toward the nucleus. The new data show that the nucleus is indeed
obscured by a CT column of $N_{\rm{H}}$ $\gtrsim$ 5 $\times$ 10$^{24}$
cm$^{-2}$. The range of 2-10 keV absorption-corrected luminosity inferred from
the best fitting models is $L_{2-10,\rm{int}} =$ (0.8-1.7) $\times$ 10$^{42}$
erg s$^{-1}$, consistent with that predicted from multiwavelength intrinsic
luminosity indicators. We also study the NuSTAR data for NGC 5643 X-1, and show
that it exhibits evidence for a spectral cut-off at energy, $E$ $\sim$ 10 keV,
similar to that seen in other ULXs observed by NuSTAR. Along with the evidence
for significant X-ray luminosity variations in the 3-8 keV band from 2003-2014,
our results further strengthen the ULX classification of NGC 5643 X-1.