We show that the isotropic 3-wave kinetic equation is equivalent to the mean
field rate equations for an aggregation-fragmentation problem with an unusual
fragmentation mechanism. This analogy is used to write the theory of 3-wave
turbulence almost entirely in terms of a single scaling parameter. A new
numerical method for solving the kinetic equation over a large range of
frequencies is developed by extending Lee's method for solving aggregation
equations. The new algorithm is validated against some analytic calculations of
the Kolmogorov-Zakharov constant for some families of model interaction
coefficients. The algorithm is then applied to study some wave turbulence
problems in which the finiteness of the dissipation scale is an essential
feature. Firstly, it is shown that for finite capacity cascades, the
dissipation of energy becomes independent of the cut-off frequency as this
cut-off is taken to infinity. This is an explicit indication of the presence of
a dissipative anomaly. Secondly, a preliminary numerical study is presented of
the so-called bottleneck effect in a wave turbulence context. It is found that
the structure of the bottleneck depends non-trivially on the interaction
coefficient. Finally some results are presented on the complementary phenomenon
of thermalisation in closed wave systems which demonstrates explicitly for the
first time the existence of so-called mixed solutions of the kinetic equation
which exhibit aspects of both Kolmogorov-Zakharov and equilibrium equipartition
spectra.