Complex Orthogonal Design (COD) codes are known to have the lowest detection
complexity among Space-Time Block Codes (STBCs). However, the rate of square
COD codes decreases exponentially with the number of transmit antennas. The
Quasi-Orthogonal Design (QOD) codes emerged to provide a compromise between
rate and complexity as they offer higher rates compared to COD codes at the
expense of an increase of decoding complexity through partially relaxing the
orthogonality conditions. The QOD codes were then generalized with the so
called g-symbol and g-group decodable STBCs where the number of orthogonal
groups of symbols is no longer restricted to two as in the QOD case. However,
the adopted approach for the construction of such codes is based on sufficient
but not necessary conditions which may limit the achievable rates for any
number of orthogonal groups. In this paper, we limit ourselves to the case of
Unitary Weight (UW)-g-group decodable STBCs for 2^a transmit antennas where the
weight matrices are required to be single thread matrices with non-zero entries
in {1,-1,j,-j} and address the problem of finding the highest achievable rate
for any number of orthogonal groups. This special type of weight matrices
guarantees full symbol-wise diversity and subsumes a wide range of existing
codes in the literature. We show that in this case an exhaustive search can be
applied to find the maximum achievable rates for UW-g-group decodable STBCs
with g>1. For this purpose, we extend our previously proposed approach for
constructing UW-2-group decodable STBCs based on necessary and sufficient
conditions to the case of UW-g-group decodable STBCs in a recursive manner.