A comprehensive set of optical and near-infrared (NIR) photometry and
spectroscopy is presented for the faint and fast 2008ha-like supernova (SN)
2010ae. Contingent on the adopted value of host extinction, SN 2010ae reached a
peak brightness of -13.8 > M_V > -15.3 mag, while modeling of the UVOIR light
curve suggests it produced 0.003--0.007 M_sun of (56)Ni, ejected 0.30--0.60
M_sun of material, and had an explosion energy of 0.04--0.30x10^51 erg. The
values of these explosion parameters are similar to the peculiar SN 2008ha
--for which we also present previously unpublished early phase optical and NIR
light curves-- and places these two transients at the faint end of the
2002cx-like SN population. Detailed inspection of the post maximum NIR
spectroscopic sequence indicates the presence of a multitude of spectral
features, which are identified through SYNAPPS modeling to be mainly attributed
to Co II. Comparison with a collection of published and unpublished NIR spectra
of other 2002cx-like SNe, reveals that a Co II footprint is ubiquitous to this
subclass of transients, providing a link to Type Ia SNe. A visual-wavelength
spectrum of SN 2010ae obtained at +252 days past maximum shows a striking
resemblance to a similar epoch spectrum of SN 2002cx. However, subtle
differences in the strength and ratio of calcium emission features, as well as
diversity among similar epoch spectra of other 2002cx-like SNe indicates a
range of physical conditions of the ejecta, highlighting the heterogeneous
nature of this peculiar class of transients.