We discuss moderate resolution spectra of the NaD absorption-line in a sample
of 32 far-IR-bright starburst galaxies. In 18 cases, the line is produced
primarily by interstellar gas, and in 12 of these it is blueshifted by over 100
km/s relative to the galaxy systemic velocity. The absorption-line profiles in
these outflow sources span the range from near the galaxy systemic velocity to
a maximum blueshift of 400 to 600 km/s. The outflows occur in galaxies
systematically viewed more nearly face-on than the others. We therefore argue
that the absorbing material consists of ambient interstellar gas accelerated
along the minor axis of the galaxy by a hot starburst-driven superwind. The NaD
lines are optically-thick, but indirect arguments imply total Hydrogen column
densities of N_H = few X 10^{21} cm^{-2}. This implies that the superwind is
expelling matter at a rate comparable to the star-formation rate. This
outflowing material is very dusty: we find a strong correlation between the
depth of the NaD profile and the line-of-sight reddening (E(B-V) = 0.3 to 1
over regions several-to-ten kpc in size). The estimated terminal velocities of
superwinds inferred from these data and extant X-ray data are typically 400 to
800 km/s, are independent of the galaxy rotation speed, and are comparable to
(substantially exceed) the escape velocities for $L_*$ (dwarf) galaxies. The
resulting loss of metals can establish the mass-metallicity relation in
spheroids, produce the observed metallicity in the ICM, and enrich a general
IGM to 10$^{-1}$ solar metallicity. If the outflowing dust grains survive their
journey into the IGM, their effect on observations of cosmologically-distant
objects is significant.