Multiple input multiple output techniques are considered attractive for
future wireless communication systems, due to the continuing demand for high
data rates, spectral efficiency, suppress interference ability and robustness
of transmission. MIMO-OFDM is very helpful to transmit high data rate in
wireless transmission and provides good maximum system capacity by getting the
advantages of both MIMO and OFDM. The main problem in this system is that
increase in number of transmit and receive antennas lead to hardware
complexity. To tackle this issue, an effective optimal transmit antenna subset
selection method is proposed in paper with the aid of Adaptive Mutation Genetic
Algorithm (AGA). Here, the selection of transmit antenna subsets are done by
the adaptive mutation of Genetic Algorithm in MIMO-OFDM system. For all the
mutation points, the fitness function are evaluated and from that value, best
fitness based mutation points are chosen. After the selection of best mutation
points, the mutation process is carried out, accordingly. The implementation of
proposed work is done in the working platform MATLAB and the performance are
evaluated with various selection of transmit antenna subsets. Moreover, the
comparison results between the existing GA with mutation and the proposed GA
with adaptive mutation are discussed. Hence, using the proposed work, the
selection of transmit antenna with the maximum capacity is made and which leads
to the reduced hardware complexity and undisturbed data rate in the MIMO-OFDM
system