The Langevin equation for a particle (`random walker') moving in
d-dimensional space under an attractive central force, and driven by a Gaussian
white noise, is considered for the case of a power-law force, F(r) = -
Ar^{-sigma}. The `persistence probability', P_0(t), that the particle has not
visited the origin up to time t, is calculated. For sigma > 1, the force is
asymptotically irrelevant (with respect to the noise), and the asymptotics of
P_0(t) are those of a free random walker. For sigma < 1, the noise is
(dangerously) irrelevant and the asymptotics of P_0(t) can be extracted from a
weak noise limit within a path-integral formalism. For the case sigma=1,
corresponding to a logarithmic potential, the noise is exactly marginal. In
this case, P_0(t) decays as a power-law, P_0(t) \sim t^{-theta}, with an
exponent theta that depends continuously on the ratio of the strength of the
potential to the strength of the noise. This case, with d=2, is relevant to the
annihilation dynamics of a vortex-antivortex pair in the two-dimensional XY
model. Although the noise is multiplicative in the latter case, the relevant
Langevin equation can be transformed to the standard form discussed in the
first part of the paper. The mean annihilation time for a pair initially
separated by r is given by t(r) \sim r^2 ln(r/a) where a is a microscopic
cut-off (the vortex core size). Implications for the nonequilibrium critical
dynamics of the system are discussed and compared to numerical simulation
results.