We present the results of a statistical analysis of the Doppler shifts and
the asymmetry parameters of V profiles of the Fe I 630.25 nm line produced by
2D MHD simulations of solar granulation. The realism of the simulations tested
using the magnetic ratio of Fe I 524.71 and 525.02 nm lines. The Stokes spectra
were synthesized in snapshots with a mixed polarity field having a mean
magnetic flux density of 0.2 mT and mean unsigned field strength of 35 mT. We
found that downflows with a velocity of 0.5 km/s predominate, on the average,
in areas with some network magnetic elements at the disk center. In separate
strong fluxtubes the average velocity is equal to 3 km/s and the maximum
velocity is 9 km/s. In weak diffuse magnetic fields upflows dominate. Their
average velocity is 0.5 km/s and maximal one is 3 km/s. The V-profile asymmetry
depends on the spatial resolution. The V profiles synthesized with high spatial
resolution (35 km) have average amplitude and area asymmetries -1%, 1%,
respectively. The asymmetry scatter is \pm70% for weak profiles and \pm10% for
strong ones. The profiles with low spatial resolution (700 km) have average
amplitude and area asymmetries 3%, -2\%, respectively. Low spatial resolution
is a reason why the amplitude asymmetry is always positive and greater than the
area asymmetry in V profiles observed. We found weak correlation between the
asymmetry of V profiles and velocity. Upflows cause negative asymmetry, on the
average, and downflows cause positive asymmetry. We examined center-to-limb
variations of vertical velocity in magnetic elements. Beginning from cos theta
= 0.9, the average velocity abruptly increases from 0.5 to 2 km/s and then
slightly varies closer to the limb. We found nonlinear oscillations of vertical
velocity with power peaks in the 5-minute and 3-minute bands.