The absolute luminosity of the Fe Kalpha emission line from matter
illuminated by X-rays in astrophysical sources is nontrivial to calculate
except when the line-emitting medium is optically-thin to absorption and
scattering. We characterize the Fe Kalpha line flux using a dimensionless
efficiency, defined as the fraction of continuum photons above the Fe K shell
absorption edge threshold energy that appear in the line. The optically-thin
approximation begins to break down even for column densities as small as 2 x
10^22 cm^-2. We show how to obtain reliable estimates of the Fe Kalpha line
efficiency in the case of cold, neutral matter, even for the Compton-thick
regime. We find that, regardless of geometry and covering factor, the largest
Fe Kalpha line efficiency is attained well before the medium becomes
Compton-thick. For cosmic elemental abundances it is difficult to achieve an
efficiency higher than a few percent under the most favorable conditions and
lines of sight. For a given geometry, Compton-thick lines-of-sight may have Fe
Kalpha line efficiencies that are orders of magnitude less than the maximum
possible for that geometry. Configurations that allow unobscured views of a
Compton-thick reflecting surface are capable of yielding the highest
efficiencies. Our results can be used to estimate the predicted flux of the
narrow Fe Kalpha line at ~6.4 keV from absorption models in AGN. In particular
we show that contrary to a recent claim in the literature, absorption dominated
models for the relativistic Fe Kalpha emission line in MCG -6-30-15 do not
over-predict the narrow Fe Kalpha line for any column density or covering
factor.