Using muon spin rotation (muSR) we investigated the magnetic and
superconducting properties of a series of Ba(Fe1-xCox)2As2 single crystals with
0 =< x =< 0.15. Our study details how the antiferromagnetic order is suppressed
upon Co substitution and how it coexists with superconductivity. In the
non-superconducting samples at 0 < x < 0.04 the antiferromagnetic order
parameter is only moderately suppressed. With the onset of superconductivity
this suppression becomes faster and it is most rapid between x = 0.045 and
0.05. As was previously demonstrated by muSR at x = 0.055 [P. Marsik et al.,
Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 57001 (2010)], the strongly weakened antiferromagnetic
order is still a bulk phenomenon that competes with superconductivity. The
comparison with neutron diffraction data suggests that the antiferromagnetic
order remains commensurate whereas the amplitude exhibits a spatial variation
that is likely caused by the randomly distributed Co atoms. A different kind of
magnetic order that was also previously identified [C. Bernhard et al., New J.
Phys. 11, 055050 (2009)] occurs at 0.055 < x < 0.075 where Tc approaches the
maximum value. The magnetic order develops here only in parts of the sample
volume and it seems to cooperate with superconductivity since its onset
temperature coincides with Tc. Even in the strongly overdoped regime at x =
0.11, where the static magnetic order has disappeared, we find that the low
energy spin fluctuations are anomalously enhanced below Tc. These findings
point toward a drastic change in the relationship between the magnetic and
superconducting orders from a competitive one in the strongly underdoped regime
to a constructive one in near optimally and overdoped samples.