Given the importance of future large scale structure surveys for delivering
new cosmological information, it is crucial to reliably predict their
observables. The Effective Field Theory of Large Scale Structures (EFTofLSS)
provides a manifestly convergent perturbative scheme to compute the clustering
of dark matter in the weakly nonlinear regime in an expansion in $k/k_{\rm
NL}$, where $k$ is the wavenumber of interest and $k_{\rm NL}$ is the
wavenumber associated to the nonlinear scale. It has been recently shown that
the EFTofLSS matches to $1\%$ level the dark matter power spectrum at redshift
zero up to $k\simeq 0.3 h/$Mpc and $k\simeq 0.6 h/$Mpc at one and two loops
respectively, using only one counterterm that is fit to data. Similar results
have been obtained for the momentum power spectrum at one loop. This is a
remarkable improvement with respect to former analytical techniques. Here we
study the prediction for the equal-time dark matter bispectrum at one loop. We
find that at this order it is sufficient to consider the same counterterm that
was measured in the power spectrum. Without any remaining free parameter, and
in a cosmology for which $k_{\rm NL}$ is smaller than in the previously
considered cases, we find that the prediction from the EFTofLSS agrees very
well with $N$-body simulations up to $k\simeq 0.3 h/$Mpc, given the accuracy of
the measurements, which is of order a few percent at the highest $k$'s of
interest. While the fit is very good on average up to $k\simeq 0.3 h/$Mpc, the
fit performs slightly worse on equilateral configurations, failing
approximately at $k\simeq 0.23h/$Mpc, in agreement with expectations that for a
given maximum $k$, equilateral triangles are the most nonlinear.