S-type AGB stars are thought to be in the transitional phase between M-type
and C-type AGB stars. Because of their peculiar chemical composition, one may
expect a strong influence of the stellar C/O ratio on the molecular chemistry
and the mineralogy of the circumstellar dust. In this paper, we present a large
sample of 87 intrinsic galactic S-type AGB stars, observed at infrared
wavelengths with the Spitzer Space Telescope, and supplemented with
ground-based optical data. On the one hand, we derive the stellar parameters
from the optical spectroscopy and photometry, using a grid of model
atmospheres. On the other, we decompose the infrared spectra to quantify the
flux-contributions from the different dust species. Finally, we compare the
independently determined stellar parameters and dust properties. For the stars
without significant dust emission, we detect a strict relation between the
presence of SiS absorption in the Spitzer spectra and the C/O ratio of the
stellar atmosphere. These absorption bands can thus be used as an additional
diagnostic for the C/O ratio. For stars with significant dust emission, we
define three groups, based on the relative contribution of certain dust species
to the infrared flux. We find a strong link between group-membership and C/O
ratio. We show that these groups can be explained by assuming that the
dust-condensation can be cut short before silicates are produced, while the
remaining free atoms and molecules can then form the observed magnesium
sulfides or the carriers of the unidentified 13 and 20 micron features.
Finally, we present the detection of emission features attributed to molecules
and dust characteristic to C-type stars, such as molecular SiS, hydrocarbons
and magnesium sulfide grains. We show that we often detect magnesium sulfides
together with molecular SiS and we propose that it is formed by a reaction of
SiS molecules with Mg.