In the radial flow of gas into a black hole (i.e. Bondi accretion), the
infall of any entropy or vorticity perturbation produces acoustic waves
propagating outward. The dependence of this acoustic flux on the shape of the
perturbation is investigated in detail. This is the key process in the
mechanism of the entropic-acoustic instability proposed by Foglizzo & Tagger
(2000) to explain the instability of Bondi-Hoyle-Lyttleton accretion. These
acoustic waves create new entropy and vorticity perturbations when they reach
the shock, thus closing the entropic-acoustic cycle. With an adiabatic index
1<gamma<=5/3, the linearized equations describing the perturbations of the
Bondi flow are studied analytically and solved numerically. The fundamental
frequency of this problem is the cut-off frequency of acoustic refraction,
below which ingoing acoustic waves are refracted out. This cut-off is
significantly smaller than the Keplerian frequency at the sonic radius and
depends on the latitudinal number l of the perturbations. When advected
adiabatically inward, entropy and vorticity perturbations trigger acoustic
waves propagating outward, with an efficiency which is highest for non radial
perturbations l=1. The outgoing acoustic flux produced by the advection of
vorticity perturbations is always moderate and peaks at rather low frequency.
By contrast, the acoustic flux produced by an entropy wave is highest close to
the refraction cut-off. It can be very large if gamma is close to 5/3. These
results suggest that the shocked Bondi flow with gamma=5/3 is strongly unstable
with respect to the entropic-acoustic mechanism.