We present ultraviolet, optical and near-infrared data of the Type Ibn
supernovae (SNe) 2010al and 2011hw. SN 2010al reaches an absolute magnitude at
peak of M(R) = -18.86 +- 0.21. Its early light curve shows similarities with
normal SNe Ib, with a rise to maximum slower than most SNe Ibn. The spectra are
dominated by a blue continuum at early stages, with narrow P-Cygni He I lines
indicating the presence of a slow-moving, He-rich circumstellar medium. At
later epochs the spectra well match those of the prototypical SN Ibn 2006jc,
although the broader lines suggest that a significant amount of He was still
present in the stellar envelope at the time of the explosion. SN 2011hw is
somewhat different. It was discovered after the first maximum, but the light
curve shows a double-peak. The absolute magnitude at discovery is similar to
that of the second peak (M(R) = -18.59 +- 0.25), and slightly fainter than the
average of SNe Ibn. Though the spectra of SN 2011hw are similar to those of SN
2006jc, coronal lines and narrow Balmer lines are cleary detected. This
indicates substantial interaction of the SN ejecta with He-rich, but not
H-free, circumstellar material. The spectra of SN 2011hw suggest that it is a
transitional SN Ibn/IIn event similar to SN 2005la. While for SN 2010al the
spectro-photometric evolution favours a H-deprived Wolf-Rayet progenitor (of
WN-type), we agree with the conclusion of Smith et al. (2012) that the
precursor of SN 2011hw was likely in transition from a luminous blue variable
to an early Wolf-Rayet (Ofpe/WN9) stage.