The flat spectrum radio quasar PKS 1222+216 was detected in the very high
energy gamma-ray band by MAGIC during a highly active gamma-ray phase following
an alert by the LAT onboard Fermi. Its relatively hard spectrum without a cut
off, together with the observed variability on timescale of ~10 min challenges
standard emission models. If the emission originates in a portion of the
relativistic jet located inside the BLR, severe absorption of gamma rays above
few tens of GeV is expected due to the pair production process. These
observations imply the existence of a very compact (R_b ~5 x 10^{14} cm) and
very fast blob located far beyond the BLR radius, responsible for the rapidly
varying high energy flux. However the long term (days-weeks) coherent evolution
of the GeV flux recorded by LAT indicates that there could be also the
substantial contribution from another larger emission region. We model the
spectral energy distribution of PKS 1222+216 during the epoch of the MAGIC
detection assuming three different scenarios,: (1) a one-zone model considering
only the emission from a compact blob outside the BLR; (2) a two-zone model
considering the compact blob plus an emitting region filling the whole jet
cross-section located outside the BLR and (3) a two zone model with the jet
emitting region inside the BLR. We find that in all cases the high-energy
emission from the compact blob is dominated by the inverse Compton scattering
of the IR thermal radiation of the dusty torus. Both regions are matter
dominated, with a negligible Poynting flux. These results disfavor models in
which the compact blob is the result of reconnection events inside the jet or
"needles" of high-energy electrons. Instead, the observational framework and
our radiative models could be compatible with scenarios in which the jet is
re-collimated and focussed at large distances from the central BH.