An Atmospheric Monitoring System (AMS) is a mandatory and key device of a
space-based mission which aims to detect Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Rays (UHECR)
and Extremely-High Energy Cosmic Rays (EHECR) from Space. JEM-EUSO has a
dedicated atmospheric monitoring system that plays a fundamental role in our
understanding of the atmospheric conditions in the Field of View (FoV) of the
telescope. Our AMS consists of a very challenging space infrared camera and a
LIDAR device, that are being fully designed with space qualification to fulfil
the scientific requirements of this space mission. The AMS will provide
information of the cloud cover in the FoV of JEM-EUSO, as well as measurements
of the cloud top altitudes with an accuracy of 500 m and the optical depth
profile of the atmosphere transmittance in the direction of each air shower
with an accuracy of 0.15 degree and a resolution of 500 m. This will ensure
that the energy of the primary UHECR and the depth of maximum development of
the EAS ( Extensive Air Shower) are measured with an accuracy better than 30\%
primary energy and 120 $g/cm^2$ depth of maximum development for EAS occurring
either in clear sky or with the EAS depth of maximum development above
optically thick cloud layers. Moreover a very novel radiometric retrieval
technique considering the LIDAR shots as calibration points, that seems to be
the most promising retrieval algorithm is under development to infer the Cloud
Top Height (CTH) of all kind of clouds, thick and thin clouds in the FoV of the
JEM-EUSO space telescope.