We describe here the characteristics of two types of high-quality PbTe
p-n-junctions, prepared in this work: (1) by thermal diffusion of In4Te3 gas
(TDJ), and (2) by ion implantation (implanted junction, IJ) of In (In-IJ) and
Zn (Zn-IJ). The results, as presented here, demonstrate the high quality of
these PbTe diodes. Capacitance-voltage and current-voltage characteristics have
been measured. The measurements were carried out over a temperature range from
~ 10 K to ~ 180 K. The latter was the highest temperature, where the diode
still demonstrated rectifying properties. This maximum operating temperature is
higher than any of the earlier reported results.
  The saturation current density, J0, in both diode types, was ~ 10^-5 A/cm2 at
80 K, while at 180 K J0 ~ 10^-1 A/cm2 in TDJ and ~ 1 A/cm2 in both
ion-implanted junctions. At 80 K the reverse current started to increase
markedly at a bias of ~ 400 mV for TDJ, and at ~550 mV for IJ. The ideality
factor n was about 1.5-2 for both diode types at 80 K. The analysis of the C-V
plots shows that the junctions in both diode types are linearly graded. The
analysis of the C-V plots allows also determining the height of the junction
barrier, the concentrations and the concentration gradient of the impurities,
and the temperature dependence of the static dielectric constant. The
zero-bias-resistance x area products (R0Ae) at 80 K are: 850 OHMcm2 for TDJ,
250 OHMcm2 for In-IJ, and ~ 80 OHMcm2 for Zn-IJ, while at 180 K R0Ae ~ 0.38
OHMcm2 for TDJ, and ~ 0.1 OHMcm2 for IJ. The estimated detectivity is: D* ~
10^10 cmHz^(1/2)/W up to T=140 K, determined mainly by background radiation,
while at T=180 K, D* decreases to 108-107 cmHz^(1/2)/W, and is determined by
the Johnson noise.