Taking into account results obtained from models and from statistical
analyses of obtained parameters, we discuss flare activity levels and flare
characteristics of five UV Ceti stars. We present the parameters of unpublished
flares detected over two years of observations of V1005 Ori. We compare
parameters of the U-band flares detected over several seasons of observations
of AD Leo, EV Lac, EQ Peg, V1054 Oph, and V1005 Ori. Flare frequencies
calculated for all program stars and maximum energy levels of the flares are
compared, and we consider which is the most correct parameter as an indicator
of flare activity levels. Using the One Phase Exponential Association function,
the distributions of flare equivalent duration versus flare total duration are
modeled for each program star. We use the Independent Samples t-Test in the
statistical analyses of the parameters obtained from the models. The results
reveal some properties of flare processes occurring on the surfaces of UV Ceti
type stars. (1) Flare energies cannot be higher than a specific value
regardless of the length of the flare total duration. This must be a saturation
level for white-light flares occurring in flare processes observed in the U
band. Thus, for the first time it is shown that white-light flares have a
saturation in a specific energy range. (2) The span values, which are the
difference between the equivalent durations of flares with the shortest and
longest total durations, are almost equal for each star. (3) The half-life
values, minimum flare durations for saturation, increase toward the later
spectral types.