(abridged) We present a statistical analysis of 28 nearby galaxy groups from
the Two-Dimensional XMM-Newton Group Survey (2dXGS). We focus on entropy and
the role of feedback, dividing the sample into cool core (CC) and non cool core
(NCC) systems, the first time the latter have been studied in detail in the
group regime. The coolest groups have steeper entropy profiles than the warmest
systems, and NCC groups have higher central entropy and exhibit more scatter
than their CC counterparts. We compare the entropy distribution of the gas in
each system to the expected theoretical distribution ignoring non-gravitational
processes. In all cases, the observed maximum entropy far exceeds that expected
theoretically, and simple models for modifications of the theoretical entropy
distribution perform poorly. Applying initial pre-heating, followed by
radiative cooling, generally fails to match the low entropy behaviour, and only
performs well when the difference between the maximum entropy of the observed
and theoretical distributions is small. Successful feedback models need to work
differentially to increase the entropy range in the gas, and we suggest two
basic possibilities. We analyse the effects of feedback on the entropy
distribution, finding systems with a high measure of `feedback impact' to reach
higher entropy than their low feedback counterparts and also to show
significantly lower central metallicities. If low entropy, metal-rich gas has
been boosted to large entropy in the high feedback systems, it must now reside
outside 0.5r_500, to remain undetected. We find similar levels of enrichment in
both high and low feedback systems, and argue that the lack of extra metals in
the highest feedback systems points to an AGN origin for the bulk of the
feedback, probably acting within precursor structures.