The O-rich Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB) stars experience strong mass loss
with efficient dust condensation and they are major sources of dust in the
interstellar medium. Alumina dust (Al$_2$O$_3$) is an important dust component
in O-rich circumstellar shells and it is expected to be fairly abundant in the
winds of the more massive and O-rich AGB stars. By coupling AGB stellar
nucleosynthesis and dust formation, we present a self-consistent exploration on
the Al$_2$O$_3$ production in the winds of AGB stars with progenitor masses
between $\sim$3 and 7 M$_{\odot}$ and metallicities in the range 0.0003 $\le$ Z
$\le$ 0.018. We find that Al$_2$O$_3$ particles form at radial distances from
the centre between $\sim2$ and 4 R$_*$ (depending on metallicity), which is in
agreement with recent interferometric observations of Galactic O-rich AGB
stars. The mass of Al$_2$O$_3$ dust is found to scale almost linearly with
metallicity, with solar metallicity AGBs producing the highest amount (about
10$^{-3}$ M$_{\odot}$) of alumina dust. The Al$_2$O$_3$ grain size decreases
with decreasing metallicity (and initial stellar mass) and the maximum size of
the Al$_2$O$_3$ grains is $\sim$0.075 $\mu m$ for the solar metallicity models.
Interestingly, the strong depletion of gaseous Al observed in the
low-metallicity HBB AGB star HV 2576 seems to be consistent with the formation
of Al$_2$O$_3$ dust as predicted by our models. We suggest that the content of
Al may be used as a mass (and evolutionary stage) indicator in AGB stars
experiencing HBB.