The mass spectrum of stellar-mass black holes (BHs) is highly uncertain.
Dynamical mass measurements are available only for few ($\sim{}10$) BHs in
X-ray binaries, while theoretical models strongly depend on the hydrodynamics
of supernova (SN) explosions and on the evolution of massive stars. In this
paper, we present and discuss the mass spectrum of compact remnants that we
obtained with SEVN, a new public population-synthesis code, which couples the
PARSEC stellar evolution tracks with up-to-date recipes for SN explosion
(depending on the Carbon-Oxygen mass of the progenitor, on the compactness of
the stellar core at pre-SN stage, and on a recent two-parameter criterion based
on the dimensionless entropy per nucleon at pre-SN stage). SEVN can be used
both as a stand-alone code and in combination with direct-summation N-body
codes (Starlab, HiGPUs). The PARSEC stellar evolution tracks currently
implemented in SEVN predict significantly larger values of the Carbon-Oxygen
core mass with respect to previous models. For most of the SN recipes we adopt,
this implies substantially larger BH masses at low metallicity
($\leq{}2\times{}10^{-3}$), than other population-synthesis codes. The maximum
BH mass found with SEVN is $\sim{}$25, 60 and 130 M$_{\odot}$ at metallicity $Z
=2 \times{} 10^{-2}$ , $2 \times{}10^{-3}$ and $2\times{} 10^{-4}$ ,
respectively. Mass loss by stellar winds plays a major role in determining the
mass of BHs for very massive stars ($\geq{}90$ M$_\odot{}$), while the remnant
mass spectrum depends mostly on the adopted SN recipe for lower progenitor
masses. We discuss the implications of our results for the transition between
NS and BH mass, and for the expected number of massive BHs (with mass $>25$
M$_\odot{}$) as a function of metallicity.