We present a statistical study of prominence and filament eruptions observed
by the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) aboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory
(SDO). Several properties are recorded for 904 events that were culled from the
Heliophysics Event Knowledgebase (HEK) and incorporated into an online catalog
for general use. These characteristics include the filament and eruption type,
eruption symmetry and direction, apparent twisting and writhing motions, and
the presence of vertical threads and coronal cavities. Associated flares and
white-light coronal mass ejections (CME) are also recorded. Total rates are
given for each property along with how they differ among filament types. We
also examine the kinematics of 106 limb events to characterize the distinct
slow- and fast-rise phases often exhibited by filament eruptions. The average
fast-rise onset height, slow-rise duration, slow-rise velocity, maximum
field-of-view (FOV) velocity, and maximum FOV acceleration are 83 Mm, 4.4
hours, 2.1 km/s, 106 km/s, and 111 m/s^2, respectively. All parameters exhibit
lognormal probability distributions similar to that of CME speeds. A positive
correlation between latitude and fast-rise onset height is found, which we
attribute to a corresponding negative correlation in the average vertical
magnetic field gradient, or decay index, estimated from potential field source
surface (PFSS) extrapolations. We also find the decay index at the fast-rise
onset point to be 1.1 on average, consistent with the critical instability
threshold theorized for straight current channels. Finally, we explore
relationships between the derived kinematics properties and apparent twisting
motions. We find that events with evident twist have significantly faster CME
speeds and significantly lower fast-rise onset heights, suggesting
relationships between these values and flux rope helicity.