We present NuSTAR observations of Vela X-1, a persistent, yet highly
variable, neutron star high-mass X-ray binary (HMXB). Two observations were
taken at similar orbital phases but separated by nearly a year. They show very
different 3-79 keV flux levels as well as strong variability during each
observation, covering almost one order of magnitude in flux. These observations
allow, for the first time ever, investigations on kilo-second time-scales of
how the centroid energies of cyclotron resonant scattering features (CRSFs)
depend on flux for a persistent HMXB. We find that the line energy of the
harmonic CRSF is correlated with flux, as expected in the sub-critical
accretion regime. We argue that Vela X-1 has a very narrow accretion column
with a radius of around 0.4 km that sustains a Coulomb interaction dominated
shock at the observed luminosities of Lx ~ 3x10^36 erg/s. Besides the prominent
harmonic line at 55 keV the fundamental line around 25 keV is clearly detected.
We find that the strengths of the two CRSFs are anti-correlated, which we
explain by photon spawning. This anti-correlation is a possible explanation for
the debate about the existence of the fundamental line. The ratio of the line
energies is variable with time and deviates significantly from 2.0, also a
possible consequence of photon spawning, which changes the shape of the line.
During the second observation, Vela X-1 showed a short off-state in which the
power-law softened and a cut-off was no longer measurable. It is likely that
the source switched to a different accretion regime at these low mass accretion
rates, explaining the drastic change in spectral shape.