High energy neutrino emission from GRBs is discussed. In this paper, by using
the simulation kit GEANT4, we calculate proton cooling efficiency including
pion-multiplicity and proton-inelasticity in photomeson production. First, we
estimate the maximum energy of accelerated protons in GRBs. Using the obtained
results, neutrino flux from one burst and a diffuse neutrino background are
evaluated quantitatively. We also take account of cooling processes of pion and
muon, which are crucial for resulting neutrino spectra. We confirm the validity
of analytic approximate treatments on GRB fiducial parameter sets, but also
find that the effects of multiplicity and high-inelasticity can be important on
both proton cooling and resulting spectra in some cases. Finally, assuming that
the GRB rate traces the star formation rate, we obtain a diffuse neutrino
background spectrum from GRBs for specific parameter sets. We introduce the
nonthermal baryon-loading factor, rather than assume that GRBs are main sources
of UHECRs. We find that the obtained neutrino background can be comparable with
the prediction of Waxman & Bahcall, although our ground in estimation is
different from theirs. In this paper, we study on various parameters since
there are many parameters in the model. The detection of high energy neutrinos
from GRBs will be one of the strong evidences that protons are accelerated to
very high energy in GRBs. Furthermore, the observations of a neutrino
background has a possibility not only to test the internal shock model of GRBs
but also to give us information about parameters in the model and whether GRBs
are sources of UHECRs or not.