Autonomous gravitational-wave searches -- fully automated analyses of data
that run without human intervention or assistance -- are desirable for a number
of reasons. They are necessary for the rapid identification of
gravitational-wave burst candidates, which in turn will allow for follow-up
observations by other observatories and the maximum exploitation of their
scientific potential. A fully automated analysis would also circumvent the
traditional "by hand" setup and tuning of burst searches that is both
labourious and time consuming. We demonstrate a fully automated search with
X-Pipeline, a software package for the coherent analysis of data from networks
of interferometers for detecting bursts associated with GRBs and other
astrophysical triggers. We discuss the methods X-Pipeline uses for automated
running, including background estimation, efficiency studies, unbiased optimal
tuning of search thresholds, and prediction of upper limits. These are all done
automatically via Monte Carlo with multiple independent data samples, and
without requiring human intervention. As a demonstration of the power of this
approach, we apply X-Pipeline to LIGO data to search for gravitational-wave
emission associated with GRB 031108. We find that X-Pipeline is sensitive to
signals approximately a factor of 2 weaker in amplitude than those detectable
by the cross-correlation technique used in LIGO searches to date. We conclude
with the prospects for running X-Pipeline as a fully autonomous, near real-time
triggered burst search in the next LSC-Virgo Science Run.