We have observed BL Lacertae in the B, R and I bands for 2 nights in July,
1999, and 3 nights in July, 2001. The observations resulted in almost evenly
sampled light curves, with an average sampling interval of ~5 min. The source
is significantly variable in all bands. On average, the variability amplitude
increases from ~5% in the I band, to ~5.5% in the R and ~6.5% in the B band
light curves. The rising and decaying time scales are comparable within each
band, but they increase from the B, to R and I band light curves. The optical
power spectrum shows a red noise component with a slope of ~ -2.
Cross-correlation analysis shows that in most cases the delay between the
variations in the B and I band light curves is less than ~ 0.4 hrs. The
cross-correlation functions are asymmetric, implying complex delays of the I
band variations with respect to the B band variations. Furthermore, in one case
we find that the I band variations are significantly delayed (by ~0.2 hrs) with
respect to the B band variations. We also detect significant spectral
variations: the spectrum becomes steeper as the flux increases, and the
flattest spectral index corresponds to the maximum B band flux. Our results
imply that the fast, intra-night variations of the source correspond to
perturbations of different regions in the jet which cause localized injections
of relativistic particles on time scales much sorter that the average sampling
interval of the light curves. The variations are controlled by the cooling and
light crossing time scales, which are probably comparable.