The collision of a liquid drop against a small target results in the
formation of a thin liquid sheet that extends radially until it reaches a
maximum diameter. The subsequent retraction is due to the air-liquid surface
tension. We have used a time- and space-resolved technique to measure the
thickness field of this class of liquid sheet, based on the grey level
measurement of the image of a dyed liquid sheet recorded using a fast camera.
This method enables a precise measurement of the thickness in the range
$(10-450) \, \mathrm{\mu m}$, with a temporal resolution equal to that of the
camera. We have measured the evolution with time since impact, $t$, and radial
position, $r$, of the thickness, $h(r,t)$, for various drop volumes and impact
velocities. Two asymptotic regimes for the expansion of the sheet are
evidenced. The scalings of the thickness with $t$ and $r$ measured in the two
regimes are those that were predicted in \citet{Rozhkov2004} fort the
short-time regime and \citet{Villermaux2011} for the long time regime, but
never experimentally measured before. Interestingly, our experimental data also
evidence the existence of a maximum of the film thickness $h_{\rm{max}}(r)$ at
a radial position $r_{\rm{h_{max}}}(t)$ corresponding to the crossover of these
two asymptotic regimes. The maximum moves with a constant velocity of the order
of the drop impact velocity, as expected theoretically. Thanks to our
visualization technique, we also evidence an azimuthal thickness modulation of
the liquid sheets.