Solar-like oscillations have been observed by Kepler and CoRoT in many
solar-type stars, thereby providing a way to probe the stars using
asteroseismology. We provide the mode linewidths and mode heights of the
oscillations of various stars as a function of frequency and of effective
temperature. We used a time series of nearly two years of data for each star.
The 23 stars observed belong to the simple or F-like category. The power
spectra of the 23 main-sequence stars were analysed using both maximum
likelihood estimators and Bayesian estimators, providing individual mode
characteristics such as frequencies, linewidths, and mode heights. We study the
source of systematic errors in the mode linewidths and mode heights, and we
present a way to correct these errors with respect to a common reference fit.
Using the correction, we could explain all sources of systematic errors, which
could be reduced to less than $\pm$15% for mode linewidths and heights, and
less than $\pm$5% for amplitude, when compared to the reference fit. The effect
of a different estimated stellar background and a different estimated splitting
will provide frequency-dependent systematic errors that might affect the
comparison with theoretical mode linewidth and mode height, therefore affecting
the understanding of the physical nature of these parameters. All other sources
of relative systematic errors are less dependent upon frequency. We also
provide the dependence of the so-called linewidth dip, in the middle of the
observed frequency range, as a function of effective temperature. We show that
the depth of the dip decreases with increasing effective temperature. The
dependence of the dip on effective temperature may imply that the mixing length
parameter $\alpha$ or the convective flux may increase with effective
temperature.