The automata arising from the well known conversion of regular expression to
non deterministic automata have rather particular transition graphs. We refer
to them as the Glushkov graphs, to honour his nice expression-to-automaton
algorithmic short cut (On a synthesis algorithm for abstract automata, Ukr.
Matem. Zhurnal, 12(2):147-156, 1960, In Russian). The Glushkov graphs have been
characterized (P. Caron and D. Ziadi, Characterization of Glushkov automata.
Theoret. Comput. Sci., 233(1-2):75-90, 2000) in terms of simple graph
theoretical properties and certain reduction rules. We show how to carry, under
certain restrictions, this characterization over to the weighted Glushkov
graphs. With the weights in a semiring K, they are defined as the transition
Glushkov K-graphs of the Weighted Finite Automata (WFA) obtained by the
generalized Glushkov construction (P. Caron and M. Flouret, Glushkov
construction for series: the non commutative case, Internat. J. Comput. Math.,
80(4):457-472, 2003) from the K-expressions. It works provided that the
semiring K is factorial and the K-expressions are in the so called star normal
form (SNF) of Bruggeman-Klein (Regular expressions into finite automata,
Theoret. Comput. Sci., 120(2):197-213, 1993) The restriction to the factorial
semiring ensures to obtain algorithms. The restriction to the SNF would not be
necessary if every K-expressions were equivalent to some with the same litteral
length, as it is the case for the boolean semiring B but remains an open
question for a general K.