A detailed investigation of the energy loss of gluons that traverse a thermal
gluonic medium simulated within the perturbative QCD--based transport model
BAMPS (a Boltzmann approach to multiparton scatterings) is presented in the
first part of this work. For simplicity the medium response is neglected in
these calculations. The energy loss from purely elastic interactions is
compared to the case where radiative processes are consistently included based
on the matrix element by Gunion and Bertsch. From this comparison gluon
multiplication processes gg -> ggg are found to be the dominant source of
energy loss within the approach employed here. The consequences for the
quenching of gluons with high transverse momentum in fully dynamic simulations
of Au+Au collisions at the RHIC energy of sqrt(s) = 200 AGeV are discussed in
the second major part of this work. The results for central collisions as
discussed in a previous publication are revisited and first results on the
nuclear modification factor R_AA for non-central Au+Au collisions are
presented. They show a decreased quenching compared to central collisions while
retaining the same shape. The investigation of the elliptic flow v2 is extended
up to non-thermal transverse momenta of 10 GeV, exhibiting a maximum v2 at
roughly 4 to 5 GeV and a subsequent decrease. Finally the sensitivity of the
aforementioned results on the specific implementation of the effective modeling
of the Landau-Pomeranchuk-Migdal (LPM) effect via a formation time based
cut-off is explored.