V471 Tauri, an eclipsing system consisting of a hot DA white dwarf (WD) and a
dK2 companion in a 12.5-hour orbit, is the prototype of the pre-cataclysmic
binaries. The late-type component is magnetically active, due to its being
constrained to rotate synchronously with the short orbital period. During a
program of UV spectroscopy of V471 Tau, carried out with the Goddard High
Resolution Spectrograph (GHRS) onboard the Hubble Space Telescope, we
serendipitously detected two episodes in which transient absorptions in the Si
III 1206 A resonance line appeared suddenly, on a timescale of <2 min. The
observations were taken in a narrow spectral region around Ly-alpha, and were
all obtained near the two quadratures of the binary orbit, i.e., at maximum
projected separation (~3.3 Rsun) of the WD and K star.
  We suggest that these transient features arise when coronal mass ejections
(CME's) from the K2 dwarf pass across the line of sight to the WD. Estimates of
the velocities, densities, and masses of the events in V471 Tau are generally
consistent with the properties of solar CME's. Given our detection of 2 events
during 6.8 hr of GHRS observing, along with a consideration of the restricted
range of latitudes and longitudes on the K star's surface that can give rise to
trajectories passing in front of the WD as seen from Earth, we estimate that
the active V471 Tau dK star emits some 100-500 CME's per day, as compared to
1-3 per day for the Sun. The K dwarf's mass-loss rate associated with CME's is
at least (5-25) x 10^{-14} Msun/yr, but it may well be orders of magnitude
higher if most of the silicon is in ionization states other than Si III.