We present improved black hole masses for 35 active galactic nuclei (AGNs)
based on a complete and consistent reanalysis of broad emission-line
reverberation-mapping data. From objects with multiple line measurements, we
find that the highest precision measure of the virial product is obtained by
using the cross-correlation function centroid (as opposed to the
cross-correlation function peak) for the time delay and the line dispersion (as
opposed to full width half maximum) for the line width and by measuring the
line width in the variable part of the spectrum. Accurate line-width
measurement depends critically on avoiding contaminating features, in
particular the narrow components of the emission lines. We find that the
precision (or random component of the error) of reverberation-based black hole
mass measurements is typically around 30%, comparable to the precision attained
in measurement of black hole masses in quiescent galaxies by gas or stellar
dynamical methods. Based on results presented in a companion paper by Onken et
al., we provide a zero-point calibration for the reverberation-based black hole
mass scale by using the relationship between black hole mass and host-galaxy
bulge velocity dispersion. The scatter around this relationship implies that
the typical systematic uncertainties in reverberation-based black hole masses
are smaller than a factor of three. We present a preliminary version of a
mass-luminosity relationship that is much better defined than any previous
attempt. Scatter about the mass-luminosity relationship for these AGNs appears
to be real and could be correlated with either Eddington ratio or object
inclination.