We examine the role of spin in launching jets from compact objects across the
mass scale. Our work includes a total of 37 Seyferts, 11 stellar-mass black
holes, and 13 neutron stars. We find that when the Seyfert reflection lines are
modeled with Gaussian line features (a crude proxy for inner disk radius and
therefore spin), only a slight inverse correlation is found between the
Doppler-corrected radio luminosity at 5 GHz (a proxy for jet power) and line
width. When the Seyfert reflection features are fit with
relativistically-blurred disk reflection models that measure spin, there is a
tentative positive correlation between the Doppler-corrected radio luminosity
and the spin measurement. Further, when we include stellar-mass black holes in
the sample, to examine the effects across the mass scale, we find a slightly
stronger correlation with radio luminosity per unit mass and spin, at a
marginal significance (2.3 sigma confidence level). Finally, when we include
neutron stars, in order to probe lower spin values, we find a positive
correlation (3.3 sigma confidence level) between radio luminosity per unit mass
and spin. Although tentative, these results suggest that spin may have a role
in determining the jet luminosity. In addition, we find a slightly more
significant correlation (4.4 sigma confidence level) between radio luminosity
per Bolometric luminosity and spin, using our entire sample of black holes and
neutrons stars. Again, although tentative, these relations point to the
possibility that the mass accretion rate, i.e. Bolometric luminosity, is also
important in determining the jet luminosity, in addition to spin. Our analysis
suggests that mass accretion rate and disk or coronal magnetic field strength
may be the "throttle" in these compact systems, to which the Eddington limit
and spin may set the maximum jet luminosity that can be achieved.