We present a study of the HI distribution and dynamics of the nearby spiral
galaxy NGC5055 based on observations with the Westerbork Synthesis Radio
Telescope. The gaseous disk of NGC5055 extends out to about 40 kpc, equal to
3.5 R_25, and shows a pronounced warp that starts at the end of the bright
optical disk (R_25= 11.6 kpc). This very extended warp has large-scale
symmetry, which along with the rotation period of its outer parts (~1.5 Gyr at
40 kpc), suggests a long-lived phenomenon. The rotation curve rises steeply in
the central parts up to the maximum velocity (v_max ~ 206 km/s). Beyond the
bright stellar disk (R_25), it shows a decline of about 25 km/s and then
remains flat out to the last measured point. The standard analysis with
luminous and dark matter components shows the dynamical importance of the disk.
The best fit to the rotation curve is obtained with a ``maximum disk''. Less
satisfactory fits with lighter disks help to set a firm lower limit of 1.4 to
the mass-to-light ratio in F band of the disk. Such a ``minimum disk''
contributes about 60% of the observed maximum rotational velocity. NGC5055
shows remarkable overall regularity and symmetry. A mild lopsidedness is
noticeable, however, both in the distribution and kinematics of the gas. The
tilted ring analysis of the velocity field led us to adopt different values for
the kinematical centre and for the systemic velocity for the inner and the
outer parts of the system. This has produced a remarkable result: the
kinematical and geometrical asymmetries disappear, both at the same time. These
results point at two different dynamical regimes: an inner region dominated by
the stellar disk and an outer one, dominated by a dark matter halo offset with
respect to the disk.