The universal validity of the second law of thermodynamics is widely
attributed to a finely tuned initial condition of the universe. This creates a
problem: why is the universe atypical? We suggest that the problem is an
artefact created by inappropriate transfer of the traditional concept of
entropy to the whole universe. Use of what we call the relational $N$-body
problem as a model indicates the need to employ two distinct entropy-type
concepts to describe the universe. One, which we call entaxy, is novel. It is
scale-invariant and decreases as the observable universe evolves. The other is
the algebraic sum of the dimensionful entropies of branch systems (isolated
subsystems of the universe). This conventional additive entropy increases. In
our model, the decrease of entaxy is fundamental and makes possible the
emergence of branch systems and their increasing entropy. We have previously
shown that all solutions of our model divide into two halves at a unique `Janus
point' of maximum disorder. This constitutes a common past for two futures each
with its own gravitational arrow of time. We now show that these arrows are
expressed through the formation of branch systems within which conventional
entropy increases. On either side of the Janus point, this increase is in the
same direction in every branch system. We also show that it is only possible to
specify unbiased solution-determining data at the Janus point. Special
properties of these `mid-point data' make it possible to develop a rational
theory of the typicality of universes whose governing law, as in our model,
dictates the presence of a Janus point in every solution. If our
self-gravitating universe is governed by such a law, then the second law of
thermodynamics is a necessary direct consequence of it and does not need any
special initial condition.