Recent studies undoubtedly demonstrate that the magnetic field in the
photosphere and corona is an intermittent structure, which offers new views on
the underlying physics. In particular, such problems as the existence in the
corona of localized areas with extremely strong resistivity (required to
explain magnetic reconnection of all scales) and the interchange between small
and large scales (required in study of the photosphere/corona coupling), to
name a few, can be easily captured by the concept of intermittency. This study
is focused on simultaneous time variations of intermittency properties derived
in the photosphere, chromosphere and corona. We analyzed data for NOAA AR 10930
acquired between Dec 08, 2006 12:00 UT and Dec 13, 2006 18:45 UT. Photospheric
intermittency was inferred from Hinode magnetic field measurements, while
intermittency in the transition region and corona was derived from Nobeyama 9
GHz radio polarization measurements, high cadence Hinode/XRT/Be-thin data as
well as GOES 1-8\AA flux. Photospheric dynamics and its possible relationship
with the intermittency variations were also analyzed by calculating the kinetic
vorticity. For this case study we found the following chain of events.
Intermittency of the photospheric magnetic field peaked after the specific
kinetic vorticity of plasma flows in the AR reached its maximum level (4 hour
time delay). In turn, gradual increase of coronal intermittency occurred after
the peak of the photospheric intermittency. The time delay between the peak of
photospheric intermittency and the occurrence of the first strong (X3.4) flare
was approximately 1.3 days. Our analysis seems to suggest that the enhancement
of intermittency/complexity first occurs in the photosphere and is later
transported toward the corona.