At low temperatures, the harmonic approximation of an energy landscape
describes the vibrational motions of particles in solid state systems, such as
crystals, glasses, and the associated physical quantities. Corrections can then
be included to take into account expansion nonlinearities that appear at higher
temperatures. In the present contribution, we report on a distinct class of
anharmonic effects that arise due to truncation of the interparticle potential.
It is common practice in computer simulations to truncate the interparticle
potential at some cut-off distance, which induces anharmonic effects on
finite-temperature thermal vibrations. Specifically, we focus on the standard
Lennard-Jones interaction for glassy and crystalline states and vary the range
and nature of the potential cut-off. We demonstrate that the discontinuity at
the cut-off distance in the first derivative of potential (corresponding to the
interparticle force) enhances the anharmonic effects thereby affecting
low-temperature thermal vibrations; the harmonic approximation breaks down for
many eigen modes, particularly for low-frequency vibrational modes. We also
show that these cut-off anharmonicities persist into the very-low-temperature
regime, and can even become more significant at lower temperatures, in contrast
to those arising from usual expansion nonlinearities. The anharmonic effects
readily show up in the elastic moduli which include detailed information of
vibrational states (both eigen frequencies and eigen vectors), whereas they are
concealed in quantities with less information of vibrational states, such as
the vibrational density of states, total potential energy, and specific heat,
which are related to vibrational energy information (eigen frequencies
information only).