4U 1630-472 is a recurrent X-ray transient classified as a black-hole
candidate from its spectral and timing properties. One of the peculiarities of
this source is the presence of regular outbursts with a recurrence period
between 600 and 730 d that has been observed since the discovery of the source
in 1969. We report on a comparative study on the spectral and timing behaviour
of three consecutive outbursts occurred in 2006, 2008 and 2010. We analysed all
the data collected by the INTErnational Gamma-Ray Astrophysics Laboratory
(INTEGRAL) and the Rossi X-ray timing Explorer (RXTE) during these three years
of activity. We show that, in spite of having a similar spectral and timing
behaviour in the energy range between 3 and 30 keV, these three outbursts show
pronounced differences above 30 keV. In fact, the 2010 outburst extends at high
energies without any detectable cut-off until 150-200 keV, while the two
previous outbursts that occurred in 2006 and 2008 are not detected at all above
30 keV. Thus, in spite of a very similar accretion disk evolution, these three
outbursts exhibit totally different characteristics of the Compton electron
corona, showing a softening in their evolution rarely observed before in a low
mass X-ray binary hosting a black hole. We argue the possibility that the
unknown perturbation that causes the outbursts to be equally spaced in time
could be at the origin of this particular behaviour. Finally we describe
several possible scenarios that could explain the regularity of the outbursts,
identifying the most plausible, such as a third body orbiting around the binary
system.