We present two main results, based on the models and the statistical analyses
of 1672 U-band flares. We also discuss the behaviours of the white-light
flares. In addition, the parameters of the flares detected from two years of
observations on CR Dra are presented. By comparing with the flare parameters
obtained from other UV Ceti type stars, we examine the behaviour of optical
flare processes along the spectral types. Moreover, we aimed, using large
white-light flare data,to analyse the flare time-scales in respect to some
results obtained from the X-ray observations. Using the SPSS V17.0 and the
GraphPad Prism V5.02 software, the flares detected from CR Dra were modelled
with the OPEA function and analysed with t-Test method to compare similar flare
events in other stars. In addition, using some regression calculations in order
to derive the best histograms, the time-scales of the white-light flares were
analysed. Firstly, CR Dra flares have revealed that the white-light flares
behave in a similar way as their counterparts observed in X-rays. As seen in
X-ray observations, the electron density seems to be a dominant parameter in
white-light flare process, too. Secondly, the distributions of the flare
time-scales demonstrate that the number of observed flares gets a maximum value
in some particular ratios, which are 0.5 or its multiples, and especially
positive integers. The thermal processes might be dominant for these
white-light flares, while non-thermal processes might be dominant in the
others. To reach better results for the behaviour of the white-light flare
process along the spectral types, much more stars in a wide spectral range,
from the spectral type dK5e to dM6e, must be observed in the white-light flare
patrols.