We report detections of X-rays from HH 80 and HH 81 with the ACIS instrument
on the Chandra X-ray Observatory. These are among the most luminous HH sources
in the optical and they are now the most luminous known in X-rays. These X-rays
arise from the strong shocks that occur when the southern extension of this
bipolar outflow slams into the ambient material. There is a one-to-one
correspondence between regions of high X-ray emission and high H? emission. The
X-ray luminosities of HH 80 and HH 81 are 4.5 and 4.3 x 1031 erg s-1,
respectively, assuming the measured low-energy absorption is not in the
sources. The measured temperature of the HH plasma is not as large as that
expected from the maximum velocities seen in the extended tails of the optical
emission lines. Rather it is consistent with the ~106 K temperature of the
?narrow? core of the optical lines. There is no observed emission from HH 80
North, the northern extension of the bipolar flow, based upon a measurement of
lower sensitivity. We imaged the central region of the bipolar flow revealing a
complex of X-ray sources including one near, but not coincident with the
putative power source in the radio and infrared. This source, CXOPTM
J181912.4-204733, has no counterparts at other wavelengths and is consistent in
luminosity and spectrum with a massive star with AV ~ 90 mag. It may contribute
significantly to the power input to the complex. Alternatively, this emission
might be extended X-rays from outflows close to the power source. We detect 94
X-ray sources overall in this area of star formation.