The physical model (PhsMdl) of the relativistic quantized Dirac's electron
(DrEl) is proposed. The DrEl is regarded as a point-like (PntLk) elementary
electric charge (ElmElcChrg), taking simultaneously part in following four
disconnected different motions: a/ in Einstein's random trembling harmonic
shudders as a result of momentum recoils (impulse kicks), forcing the DrEl's
PntLk ElmElcChrg at its continuous emission and absorption of high energy
stochastic virtual photons (StchVrtPhtns) by its PntLk ElmElcChrg ; b/ in
Schrodinger's fermion vortical harmonic oscillations of DrEl's fine spread
(FnSpr) ElmElcChrg, who minimizes the self-energy at a rest of is an
electromagnetic self-action between its continuously moving FnSpr ElmElcChrg
and proper magnetic dipole moment (MgnDplMmn) and the corresponding potential
and vector-potential; All the relativistic dynamical properties of the DrEl are
results of the participate of its FnSpr ElmElcChrg in the Schrodinger's fermion
vortical harmonic oscillations. c/ in Furthian quantized stochastic boson
circular harmonic oscillations as a result of the permanent electric or
magnetic interaction of its well spread (WllSpr) ElmElcChrg or proper MgnDplMmn
with the electric intensity (ElcInt) or the magnetic intensity (MgnInt) of the
resultant quantized electromagnetic field (QntElcMgnFld) of all the
StchVrtPhtns within the fluctuating vacuum (FlcVcm); All the quantized
dualistic dynamical properties of the SchEl are results of the participate of
its WllSpr ElmElcChrg in the Furth's stochastic boson circular harmonic
oscillations. d/ in Nweton's classical motion along a clear-cut smooth thin
line as a result of some interaction of its over spread (OvrSpr) ElmElcChrg,
MgnDplMmn or bare mass with the intensities of some classical fields.