Weighted automata are nondeterministic automata with numerical weights on
transitions. They can define quantitative languages~$L$ that assign to each
word~$w$ a real number~$L(w)$. In the case of infinite words, the value of a
run is naturally computed as the maximum, limsup, liminf, limit-average, or
discounted-sum of the transition weights. The value of a word $w$ is the
supremum of the values of the runs over $w$. We study expressiveness and
closure questions about these quantitative languages. We first show that the
set of words with value greater than a threshold can be non-$\omega$-regular
for deterministic limit-average and discounted-sum automata, while this set is
always $\omega$-regular when the threshold is isolated (i.e., some neighborhood
around the threshold contains no word). In the latter case, we prove that the
$\omega$-regular language is robust against small perturbations of the
transition weights. We next consider automata with transition weights Weighted
automata are nondeterministic automata with numerical weights ontransitions.
They can define quantitative languages~$L$ that assign to eachword~$w$ a real
number~$L(w)$. In the case of infinite words, the value of arun is naturally
computed as the maximum, limsup, liminf, limit-average, ordiscounted-sum of the
transition weights. The value of a word $w$ is thesupremum of the values of the
runs over $w$. We study expressiveness andclosure questions about these
quantitative languages. We first show that the set of words with value greater
than a threshold canbe non-$\omega$-regular for deterministic limit-average and
discounted-sumautomata, while this set is always $\omega$-regular when the
threshold isisolated (i.e., some neighborhood around the threshold contains no
word). Inthe latter case, we prove that the $\omega$-regular language is robust
againstsmall perturbations of the transition weights. We next consider automata
with transition weights $0$ or $1$ and show thatthey are as expressive as
general weighted automata in the limit-average case,but not in the
discounted-sum case. Third, for quantitative languages $L_1$ and~$L_2$, we
consider the operations$\max(L_1,L_2)$, $\min(L_1,L_2)$, and $1-L_1$, which
generalize the booleanoperations on languages, as well as the sum $L_1 + L_2$.
We establish theclosure properties of all classes of quantitative languages
with respect tothese four operations.$ or $ and show that they are as
expressive as general weighted automata in the limit-average case, but not in
the discounted-sum case. Third, for quantitative languages $L_1$ and~$L_2$, we
consider the operations $\max(L_1,L_2)$, $\min(L_1,L_2)$, and -L_1$, which
generalize the boolean operations on languages, as well as the sum $L_1 + L_2$.
We establish the closure properties of all classes of quantitative languages
with respect to these four operations.