Ab initio wave-function-based methods are employed for the study of
quasiparticle energy bands of zinc-blende ZnS, with focus on the Zn 3d
"semicore" states. The relative energies of these states with respect to the
top of the S 3p valence bands appear to be poorly described as compared to
experimental values not only within the local density approximation (LDA), but
also when many-body corrections within the GW approximation are applied to the
LDA or LDA+U mean-field solutions [T. Miyake, P. Zhang, M. L. Cohen, and S. G.
Louie, Phys. Rev. B 74, 245213 (2006)]. In the present study, we show that for
the accurate description of the Zn 3d states a correlation treatment based on
wave function methods is needed. Our study rests on a local Hamiltonian
approach which rigorously describes the short-range polarization and charge
redistribution effects around an extra hole or electron placed into the valence
respective conduction bands of semiconductors and insulators. The method also
facilitates the computation of electron correlation effects beyond relaxation
and polarization. The electron correlation treatment is performed on finite
clusters cut off the infinite system. The formalism makes use of localized
Wannier functions and embedding potentials derived explicitly from prior
periodic Hartree-Fock calculations. The on-site and nearest-neighbor charge
relaxation lead to corrections of several eV to the Hartree-Fock band energies
and gap. Corrections due to long-range polarization are of the order of 1.0 eV.
The dispersion of the Hartree-Fock bands is only little affected by electron
correlations. We find the Zn 3d "semicore" states to lie about 9.0 eV below the
top of the S 3p valence bands, in very good agreement with values from
valence-band x-ray photoemission.