In risk management it is desirable to grasp the essential statistical
features of a time series representing a risk factor. This tutorial aims to
introduce a number of different stochastic processes that can help in grasping
the essential features of risk factors describing different asset classes or
behaviors. This paper does not aim at being exhaustive, but gives examples and
a feeling for practically implementable models allowing for stylised features
in the data. The reader may also use these models as building blocks to build
more complex models, although for a number of risk management applications the
models developed here suffice for the first step in the quantitative analysis.
The broad qualitative features addressed here are {fat tails} and {mean
reversion}. We give some orientation on the initial choice of a suitable
stochastic process and then explain how the process parameters can be estimated
based on historical data. Once the process has been calibrated, typically
through maximum likelihood estimation, one may simulate the risk factor and
build future scenarios for the risky portfolio. On the terminal simulated
distribution of the portfolio one may then single out several risk measures,
although here we focus on the stochastic processes estimation preceding the
simulation of the risk factors Finally, this first survey report focuses on
single time series. Correlation or more generally dependence across risk
factors, leading to multivariate processes modeling, will be addressed in
future work.