Diffuse emission is often challenging since it is undetectable by most
instruments, which are generally dedicated to point-source studies. The
$^{26}$Al emission is a good illustration: the only available $^{26}$Al map to
date has been released, more than fifteen years ago, thanks to the COMPTEL
instrument. However, at the present time, the SPI spectrometer aboard the
INTEGRAL mission offers a unique opportunity to enrich this first result. In
this paper, 2 $\times$ 10$^8$ s of data accumulated between 2003 and 2013 are
used to perform a dedicated analysis, aiming to deeply investigate the spatial
morphology of the $^{26}$Al emission. The data are first compared with several
sky maps based on observations at various wavelengths to model the $^{26}$Al
distribution throughout the Galaxy. For most of the distribution models, the
inner Galaxy flux is compatible with a value of 3.3$\times$ 10$^{-4}$
ph.cm$^{-2}$.s$^{-1}$ while the preferred template maps correspond to young
stellar components such as core-collapse supernovae, Wolf-Rayet and massive AGB
stars. To get more details about this emission, an image reconstruction is
performed using an algorithm based on the maximum-entropy method. In addition
to the inner Galaxy emission, several excesses suggest that some sites of
emission are linked to the spiral arms structure. Lastly, an estimation of the
$^{60}$Fe line flux, assuming a spatial distribution similar to $^{26}$Al line
emission, results in a $^{60}$Fe\ to $^{26}$Al ratio around 0.14, which agrees
with the most recent studies and with the SN explosion model predictions.