Biology has taken strong steps towards becoming a computer science aiming at
reprogramming nature after the realisation that nature herself has reprogrammed
organisms by harnessing the power of natural selection and the digital
prescriptive nature of replicating DNA. Here we further unpack ideas related to
computability, algorithmic information theory and software engineering, in the
context of the extent to which biology can be (re)programmed, and with how we
may go about doing so in a more systematic way with all the tools and concepts
offered by theoretical computer science in a translation exercise from
computing to molecular biology and back. These concepts provide a means to a
hierarchical organization thereby blurring previously clear-cut lines between
concepts like matter and life, or between tumour types that are otherwise taken
as different and may not have however a different cause. This does not diminish
the properties of life or make its components and functions less interesting.
On the contrary, this approach makes for a more encompassing and integrated
view of nature, one that subsumes observer and observed within the same system,
and can generate new perspectives and tools with which to view complex diseases
like cancer, approaching them afresh from a software-engineering viewpoint that
casts evolution in the role of programmer, cells as computing machines, DNA and
genes as instructions and computer programs, viruses as hacking devices, the
immune system as a software debugging tool, and diseases as an
information-theoretic battlefield where all these forces deploy. We show how
information theory and algorithmic programming may explain fundamental
mechanisms of life and death.