We present catalogs for the ~2 Ms Chandra Deep Field-North, currently the
deepest X-ray observation of the Universe in the 0.5-8.0 keV band. Five hundred
and three (503) X-ray sources are detected over an ~448 sq.arcmin area in up to
seven bands; 20 of these X-ray sources lie in the Hubble Deep Field-North.
Source positions are determined using matched-filter and centroiding
techniques; the median positional uncertainty is ~0.3 arcsecs. The X-ray colors
of the detected sources indicate a broad variety of source types, although
absorbed AGNs (including some possible Compton-thick sources) are clearly the
dominant type. We also match lower significance X-ray sources to optical
counterparts and provide a list of 79 optically bright R<~23) lower
significance Chandra sources. The majority of these sources appear to be
starburst and normal galaxies. We investigate the source-free background,
determine the maximum photon-limited exposures, and investigate source
confusion. These analyses directly show that Chandra can achieve significantly
higher sensitivities in an efficient nearly photon-limited manner and be
largely free of source confusion. To allow consistent comparisons, we have also
produced point-source catalogs for the ~1 Ms Chandra Deep Field-South (CDF-S).
Three hundred and twenty-six (326) X-ray sources are included in the main
Chandra catalog, and an additional 42 optically bright X-ray sources are
included in a lower significance Chandra catalog. We find good agreement with
the photometry of the previously published CDF-S catalogs; however, we provide
significantly improved positional accuracy (ABRIDGED).