We present time-dependent 1D simulations of multifluid magnetic shocks with
chemistry resolved down to the mean free path. They are obtained with an
adaptive moving grid implemented with an implicit scheme. We examine a broad
range of parameters relevant to conditions in dense molecular clouds, with
preshock densities between 10^3 and 10^5 cm-3, velocities between 10 and 40
km/s, and three different scalings for the transverse magnetic field: B=0,0.1,1
\mu G \sqrt{n.cm3}. We first use this study to validate the results of
Chi\`eze, Pineau des For\^ets & Flower (1998), in particular the long delays
necessary to obtain steady C-type shocks, and we provide evolutionary
time-scales for a much greater range of parameters. We also present the first
time-dependent models of dissociative shocks with a magnetic precursor,
including the first models of stationary CJ shocks in molecular conditions. We
find that the maximum speed for steady C-type shocks is reached before the
occurrence of a sonic point in the neutral fluid, unlike previously thought. As
a result, the maximum speed for C-shocks is lower than previously believed.
Finally, we find a large amplitude bouncing instability in J-type fronts near
the H2 dissociation limit (u ~ 25-30 km/s), driven by H2
dissociation/reformation. At higher speeds, we find an oscillatory behaviour of
short period and small amplitude linked to collisional ionisation of H. Both
instabilities are suppressed after some time when a magnetic field is present.
In a companion paper, we use the present simulations to validate a new
semi-analytical construction method for young low-velocity magnetic shocks
based on truncated steady-state models.