The production of Like-Sign-Di-leptons (LSD), in the high energy lepton
number violating ($\Delta L = +2$) reaction, p p --> 2jets + l+l+
(l=e,\mu,\tau) of interest for the experiments to be performed at the
forthcoming Large Hadron Collider (LHC), is investigated in detail, taking up a
composite model scenario in which the exchanged virtual composite neutrino is
assumed to be a Majorana particle that couples to the light leptons via the
$SU(2)\times U(1)$ gauge bosons through a magnetic type coupling
($\sigma_{\mu\nu}$). An helicity projection method is used to evaluate exactly
the tree-level amplitudes of the contributing parton subprocesses ($2\to 4$),
which allows to take into account all exchange diagrams and occurring
interferences. Numerical estimates of the corresponding signal cross-section
that implement kinematical cuts needed to suppress the Standard Model
background, are presented which show that in some regions of the parameter
space the total number of LSD events is well above the background. Assuming
non-observation of the LSD signal it is found that LHC would exclude a
composite Majorana neutrino up to 850 GeV (if one requires 10 events for
discovery). The sensitivity of LHC experiments to the parameter space is then
compared to that of the next generation of neutrinoless double beta decay
($\beta\beta_{0\nu}$) experiment, GENIUS, and it is shown that they will
provide constraints of the same order of magnitude and will play a
complementary role.