We utilize $\Lambda$CDM halo occupation models of galaxy clustering to
investigate the evolving stellar mass dependent clustering of galaxies in the
PRIsm MUlti-object Survey (PRIMUS) and DEEP2 Redshift Survey over the past
eight billion years of cosmic time, between $0.2<z<1.2$. These clustering
measurements provide new constraints on the connections between dark matter
halo properties and galaxy properties in the context of the evolving
large-scale structure of the universe. Using both an analytic model and a set
of mock galaxy catalogs, we find a strong correlation between central galaxy
stellar mass and dark matter halo mass over the range
$M_\mathrm{halo}\sim10^{11}$-$10^{13}~h^{-1}M_\odot$, approximately consistent
with previous observations and theoretical predictions. However, the
stellar-to-halo mass relation (SHMR) and the mass scale where star formation
efficiency reaches a maximum appear to evolve more strongly than predicted by
other models, including models based primarily on abundance-matching
constraints. We find that the fraction of satellite galaxies in haloes of a
given mass decreases significantly from $z\sim0.5$ to $z\sim0.9$, partly due to
the fact that haloes at fixed mass are rarer at higher redshift and have lower
abundances. We also find that the $M_1/M_\mathrm{min}$ ratio, a model parameter
that quantifies the critical mass above which haloes host at least one
satellite, decreases from $\approx20$ at $z\sim0$ to $\approx13$ at $z\sim0.9$.
Considering the evolution of the subhalo mass function vis-\`{a}-vis satellite
abundances, this trend has implications for relations between satellite
galaxies and halo substructures and for intracluster mass, which we argue has
grown due to stripped and disrupted satellites between $z\sim0.9$ and
$z\sim0.5$.