The observed relationship between stellar mass and effective radius for early
type galaxies, pointed out by many contributors, is interpreted in the context of
Clausius' virial maximum theory. In this view, it is strongly underlined that
the key of the above mentioned correlation is owing to the presence of a deep
link between cosmology and the existence of the galaxy Fundamental Plane. Then
the ultimate meaning is: understanding visible mass - size correlation and/or
Fundamental Plane means understanding how galaxies form. The mass - size
relationship involves baryon (mainly stellar) mass and its typical dimension
related to the light, but it gets memory of the cosmological mass variance at
the equivalence epoch. The reason is that the baryonic component virializes by
sharing virial energy in about equal amount between baryons and dark matter,
this sharing depending, in turn, on the steepness of the dark matter
distribution. The general strategy consists in using the two-component tensor
virial theorem for determining the virialized baryonic configurations. A King
and a Zhao density profile are assumed for the inner baryonic and the outer
dark matter component, respectively, at the end of the relaxation phase. All
the considerations are restricted to spherical symmetry for simplicity. The
effect of changing the dark-to-baryon mass ratio, m, is investigated inside a
LambdaCDM scenario. A theoretical mass - size relation is expressed for the
baryonic component, which fits fairly well to the data from a recently studied
galaxy sample. Finally, the play of intrinsic dispersion on the mass ratio, m,
is discussed in the light of the cusp/core problem and some consequences are
speculated about the existence of a limit, m_l, expected by the theory.