We measure the angular bispectrum of the cosmic microwave background (CMB)
radiation anisotropy from the COBE Differential Microwave Radiometer (DMR)
four-year sky maps. The angular bispectrum is the harmonic transform of the
three-point correlation function, analogous to the angular power spectrum, the
harmonic transform of the two-point correlation function. First, we study
statistical properties of the bispectrum and the normalized bispectrum. We find
the latter more useful for statistical analysis; the distribution of the
normalized bispectrum is very much Gaussian, while the bare bispectrum
distribution is highly non-Gaussian. Then, we measure 466 modes of the
normalized bispectrum, all independent combinations of three-point
configurations up to a maximum multipole of 20, the mode corresponding to the
DMR beam size. By measuring 10 times as many modes as the sum of previous work,
we test Gaussianity of the DMR maps. We compare the data with the simulated
Gaussian realizations, finding no significant detection of the normalized
bispectrum on the mode-by-mode basis. We also find that the previously reported
detection of the normalized bispectrum is consistent with a statistical
fluctuation. By fitting a theoretical prediction to the data for the primary
CMB bispectrum, which is motivated by slow-roll inflation, we put a weak
constraint on a parameter characterizing non-linearity in inflation.
Simultaneously fitting the foreground bispectra estimated from interstellar
dust and synchrotron template maps shows that neither dust nor synchrotron
emissions significantly contribute to the bispectrum at high Galactic latitude.
We conclude that the DMR map is consistent with Gaussianity.