An MHD model of a Hydrogen plasma with flow, an energy equation, NLTE
ionization and radiative cooling, and an Ohm's law with anisotropic electrical
conduction and thermoelectric effects is used to self-consistently generate
atmospheric layers over a $50$ km height range. A subset of these solutions
contain current sheets, and have properties similar to those of the lower and
middle chromosphere. The magnetic field profiles are found to be close to
Harris sheet profiles, with maximum field strengths $\sim 25-150$ G. The
radiative flux $F_R$ emitted by individual sheets is $\sim 4.9 \times 10^5 -
4.5 \times 10^6$ ergs-cm$^{-2}$-s$^{-1}$, to be compared with the observed
chromospheric emission rate of $\sim 10^7$ ergs-cm$^{-2}$-s$^{-1}$. Essentially
all emission is from regions with thicknesses $\sim 0.5 - 13$ km containing the
neutral sheet. About half of $F_R$ comes from sub-regions with thicknesses 10
times smaller. A resolution $\lesssim 5-130$ m is needed to resolve the
properties of the sheets. The sheets have total H densities $\sim
10^{13}-10^{15}$ cm$^{-3}$. The ionization fraction in the sheets is $\sim
2-20$ times larger, and the temperature is $\sim 2000-3000$ K higher than in
the surrounding plasma. The Joule heating flux $F_J$ exceeds $F_R$ by $\sim
4-34 \%$, the difference being balanced in the energy equation mainly by a
negative compressive heating flux. Proton Pedersen current dissipation
generates $\sim 62-77\%$ of the positive contribution to $F_J$. The remainder
of this contribution is due to electron current dissipation near the neutral
sheet where the plasma is weakly magnetized.