This paper is an attempt for arguing the possibility for short time when,
where and how Earthquakes prediction. The local when Earthquake prediction is
based on the connection between geomagnetic quakes and the next incoming
minimum or maximum of tidal gravitational potential. The probability time
window for the predicted earthquake is +/-1 day for the minimum and +/-2 days
for the maximum. The preliminary statistic estimation on the basis of
distribution of the time difference between predicted and occurred earthquake
for the period 2001-2002 in Balkan, Black Sea region is given. Examples for
posteriori earthquakes when predictions at different World regions, using
archive Intermagnet local data, are given. The possibility for local when,
where earthquake prediction is based on the accurate, with special space and
time scales, monitoring of the electromagnetic field under, on and over Earth
surface. The periodically upgraded information from Seismic hazard maps is
essential. The possibility for local when, where and how Earthquake prediction
is based on the monitoring of geomagnetic field, electro-potential distribution
in the Earth crust and atmosphere, spatial and time distribution of Earth
surface radiation, gravitational anomalyties map, season and day independent
temperature depth distribution, water sources parameters (debit, temperature,
chemical composition, radioactivity), gas emissions, ionosphere condition
parameters, Earth radiation belt parameters, Sun wind, Seismic hazard maps
information for crust parameters (strain, deformation, displacement) and
biological precursors.