There is growing consensus that feedback from AGN is the main mechanism
responsible for stopping cooling flows in clusters of galaxies. AGN are known
to inflate buoyant bubbles that supply mechanical power to the intracluster gas
(ICM). High Reynolds number hydrodynamical simulations show that such bubbles
get entirely disrupted within 100 Myr, as they rise in cluster atmospheres,
which is contrary to observations. This artificial mixing has consequences for
models trying to quantify the amount of heating and star formation in cool core
clusters of galaxies. It has been suggested that magnetic fields can stabilize
bubbles against disruption. We perform MHD simulations of fossil bubbles in the
presence of tangled magnetic fields using the high order PENCIL code. We focus
on the physically-motivated case where thermal pressure dominates over magnetic
pressure and consider randomly oriented fields with and without maximum
helicity and a case where large scale external fields drape the bubble.We find
that helicity has some stabilizing effect. However, unless the coherence length
of magnetic fields exceeds the bubble size, the bubbles are quickly shredded.
As observations of Hydra A suggest that lengthscale of magnetic fields may be
smaller then typical bubble size, this may suggest that other mechanisms, such
as viscosity, may be responsible for stabilizing the bubbles. However, since
Faraday rotation observations of radio lobes do not constrain large scale ICM
fields well if they are aligned with the bubble surface, the draping case may
be a viable alternative solution to the problem. A generic feature found in our
simulations is the formation of magnetic wakes where fields are ordered and
amplified. We suggest that this effect could prevent evaporation by thermal
conduction of cold Halpha filaments observed in the Perseus cluster.