We present the results of a program of optical and near-infrared
spectroscopic follow-up of candidate Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) selected in
the mid-infrared. This survey selects both normal and obscured AGN closely
matched in luminosity across a wide range, from Seyfert galaxies with
bolometric luminosities L_bol~10^10L_sun, to highly luminous quasars
(L_bol~10^14L_sun), and with redshifts from 0-4.3. Samples of candidate AGN
were selected through mid-infrared color cuts at several different 24 micron
flux density limits to ensure a range of luminosities at a given redshift. The
survey consists of 786 candidate AGN and quasars, of which 672 have
spectroscopic redshifts and classifications. Of these, 137 (20%) are type-1 AGN
with blue continua, 294 (44%) are type-2 objects with extinctions A_V>~5
towards their AGN, 96 (14%) are AGN with lower extinctions (A_V~1) and 145
(22%) have redshifts, but no clear signs of AGN activity in their spectra. 50%
of the survey objects have L_bol >10^12L_sun, in the quasar regime. We present
composite spectra for type-2 quasars and for objects with no signs of AGN
activity in their spectra. We also discuss the mid-infrared - emission-line
luminosity correlation and present the results of cross-correlations with
serendipitous X-ray and radio sources. The results show that: (1) obscured
objects dominate the overall AGN population, (2) there exist mid-infrared
selected AGN candidates which lack AGN signatures in their optical spectra, but
have AGN-like X-ray or radio counterparts, and (3) X-ray and optical
classifications of obscured and unobscured AGN often differ.