The effect of multibody massless neutrino exchanges between neutrons inside a
finite-size neutron star is studied. We use an effective Lagrangian, which
incorporates the effect of the neutrons on the neutrinos. Following Schwinger,
it is shown that the total interaction energy density is computed by comparing
the zero point energy of the neutrino sea with and without the star. It has
already been shown that in an infinite-size star the total energy due to
neutrino exchange vanishes exactly. The opposite claim that massless neutrino
exchange would produce a huge energy is due to an improper summation of an
infrared-divergent quantity. The same vanishing of the total energy has been
proved exactly in the case of a finite star in a one-dimensional toy model.
  Here we study the three-dimensional case. We first consider the effect of a
sharp star border, assumed to be a plane. We find that there is a non-
vanishing of the zero point energy density difference between the inside and
the outside due to the refraction index at the border and the consequent
non-penetrating waves. An analytical and numerical calculation for the case of
a spherical star with a sharp border confirms that the preceding border effect
is the dominant one. The total result is shown to be infrared-safe, thus
confirming that there is no need to assume a neutrino mass. The ultraviolet
cut-offs, which correspond in some sense to the matching of the effective
theory with the exact one, are discussed. Finally the energy due to long
distance neutrino exchange is of the order of $10^{-8} -- 10^{-13} GeV per
neutron$, i.e. negligible with respect to the neutron mass density.