A central question in the field of graphene-related research is how graphene
behaves when it is patterned at the nanometer scale with different edge
geometries. Perhaps the most fundamental shape relevant to this question is the
graphene nanoribbon (GNR), a narrow strip of graphene that can have different
chirality depending on the angle at which it is cut. Such GNRs have been
predicted to exhibit a wide range of behaviour (depending on their chirality
and width) that includes tunable energy gaps and the presence of unique
one-dimensional (1D) edge states with unusual magnetic structure. Most GNRs
explored experimentally up to now have been characterized via electrical
conductivity, leaving the critical relationship between electronic structure
and local atomic geometry unclear (especially at edges). Here we present a
sub-nm-resolved scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) and spectroscopy (STS)
study of GNRs that allows us to examine how GNR electronic structure depends on
the chirality of atomically well-defined GNR edges. The GNRs used here were
chemically synthesized via carbon nanotube (CNT) unzipping methods that allow
flexible variation of GNR width, length, chirality, and substrate. Our STS
measurements reveal the presence of 1D GNR edge states whose spatial
characteristics closely match theoretical expectations for GNR's of similar
width and chirality. We observe width-dependent splitting in the GNR edge state
energy bands, providing compelling evidence of their magnetic nature. These
results confirm the novel electronic behaviour predicted for GNRs with
atomically clean edges, and thus open the door to a whole new area of
applications exploiting the unique magnetoelectronic properties of chiral GNRs.