Monte Carlo simulations are used to study the behavior of two polymers under
confinement in a cylindrical tube. Each polymer is modeled as a chain of hard
spheres. We measure the free energy of the system, F, as a function of the
distance between the centers of mass of the polymers, lambda, and examine the
effects on the free energy functions of varying the channel diameter D and
length L, as well as the polymer length N and bending rigidity, kappa. For
infinitely long cylinders, F is a maximum at lambda=0, and decreases with
lambda until the polymers are no longer in contact. For flexible chains, the
polymers overlap along the cylinder for low lambda, while above some critical
value of lambda they are longitudinally compressed and non-overlapping while
still in contact. We find that the free energy barrier height, scales as Delta
F/k_BT~ND^{-1.93+/-0.01}. In addition, the overlap free energy scales as
F/k_BT=Nf(lambda/N;D), where f is a function parameterized by D. For channels
of finite L, the free energy barrier height increases with increasing
confinement aspect ratio L/D at fixed volume fraction phi, and it decreases
with increasing phi at fixed L/D. Increasing the polymer bending rigidity kappa
monotonically reduces the overlap free energy. For strongly confined systems, F
varies linearly with lambda with a slope that scales as F'(lambda)~-k_BT
D^{-beta} P^{-alpha}, where beta approx 2 and alpha approx 0.37 for N=200
chains. These exponent values deviate slightly from those predicted using a
simple model, possibly due to insufficiently satisfying the conditions defining
the Odijk regime. Finally, we use Monte Carlo dynamics simulations to examine
polymer segregation dynamics for fully flexible chains and observe segregation
rates that decrease with decreasing entropic force magnitude. The polymers are
not conformationally relaxed at later times during segregation.