The braneworld model proposed by Dvali, Gabadadze and Porrati (DGP) leads to
an accelerated universe without cosmological constant or other form of dark
energy for the positive branch $(\epsilon =+1)$. For the negative branch
$(\epsilon =-1)$ we have investigated the behavior of a model with an
holographic Ricci-like dark energy and dark matter, where the IR cutoff takes
the form $\alpha H^2 + \beta \dot{H}$, being $H$ the Hubble parameter and
$\alpha$, $\beta$ positive constants of the model. We perform an analytical
study of the model in the late-time dark energy dominated epoch, where we
obtain a solution for $r_cH(z)$, where $r_c$ is the leakage scale of gravity
into the bulk, and conditions for the negative branch on the holographic
parameters $\alpha$ and $\beta$, in order to hold the conditions of weak energy
and accelerated universe. On the other hand, we compare the model versus the
late-time cosmological data using the latest type Ia supernova sample of the
Joint Light-curve Analysis (JLA), in order to constraint the holographic
parameters in the negative branch, as well as $r_cH_0$ in the positive branch,
where $H_0$ is the Hubble constant. We find that the model has a good fit to
the data and that the most likely values for $(r_cH_0, \alpha, \beta)$ lie in
the permitted region found from an analytical solution in a dark energy
dominated universe. We give a justification to use holographic cut-off in 4D
for the dark energy in the 5 dimensional DGP model. Finally, using the Bayesian
Information Criterion we find that this model it is disfavored compared with
the flat $\Lambda$CDM model.