We consider collisional models for granular particles and analyze the
conditions under which the restitution coefficient might be a constant. We show
that these conditions are not consistent with known collision laws. From the
generalization of the Hertz contact law for viscoelastic particles we obtain
the coefficient of normal restitution \epsilon as a function of the normal
component of the impact velocity v_{imp}. Using \epsilon(v_{imp}) we describe
the time evolution of temperature and of the velocity distribution function of
a granular gas in the homogeneous cooling regime, where the particles collide
according to the viscoelastic law. We show that for the studied systems the
simple scaling hypothesis for the velocity distribution function is violated,
i.e. that its evolution is not determined only by the time dependence of the
thermal velocity. We observe, that the deviation from the Maxwellian
distribution, which we quantify by the value of the second coefficient of the
Sonine polynomial expansion of the velocity distribution function, does not
depend on time monotonously. At first stage of the evolution it increases on
the mean-collision time-scale up to a maximum value and then decays to zero at
the second stage, on the time scale corresponding to the evolution of the
granular gas temperature. For granular gas in the homogeneous cooling regime we
also evaluate the time-dependent self-diffusion coefficient of granular
particles. We analyze the time dependence of the mean-square displacement and
discuss its impact on clustering. Finally, we discuss the problem of the
relevant internal time for the systems of interest.