Recently, using Greenwich and Solar Optical Observing Network sunspot group
data during the period 1874-2006, (Javaraiah, MNRAS, 377, L34, 2007: Paper I),
has found that: (1) the sum of the areas of the sunspot groups in 0-10 deg
latitude interval of the Sun's northern hemisphere and in the time-interval of
-1.35 year to +2.15 year from the time of the preceding minimum of a solar
cycle n correlates well (corr. coeff. r=0.947) with the amplitude (maximum of
the smoothed monthly sunspot number) of the next cycle n+1. (2) The sum of the
areas of the spot groups in 0-10 deg latitude interval of the southern
hemisphere and in the time-interval of 1.0 year to 1.75 year just after the
time of the maximum of the cycle n correlates very well (r=0.966) with the
amplitude of cycle n+1. Using these relations, (1) and (2), the values 112 + or
- 13 and 74 + or -10, respectively, were predicted in Paper I for the amplitude
of the upcoming cycle 24. Here we found that in case of (1), the north-south
asymmetry in the area sum of a cycle n also has a relationship, say (3), with
the amplitude of cycle n+1, which is similar to (1) but more statistically
significant (r=0.968) like (2). By using (3) it is possible to predict the
amplitude of a cycle with a better accuracy by about 13 years in advance, and
we get 103 + or -10 for the amplitude of the upcoming cycle 24. However, we
found a similar but a more statistically significant (r=0.983) relationship,
say (4), by using the sum of the area sum used in (2) and the north-south
difference used in (3). By using (4) it is possible to predict the amplitude of
a cycle by about 9 years in advance with a high accuracy and we get 87 + or - 7
for the amplitude of cycle 24.