In the presence of the Josephson vortex lattice in layered superconductors, a
small c-axis magnetic field penetrates in the form of vortex chains. In
general, the structure of a single chain is determined by the ratio of the
London [$\lambda$] and Josephson [$\lambda_{J}$] lengths, $\alpha=
\lambda/\lambda_{J}$. The chain is composed of tilted vortices at large
$\alpha$'s (tilted chain) and at small $\alpha$'s it consists of a crossing
array of Josephson vortices and pancake-vortex stacks (crossing chain). We
study chain structures at intermediate $\alpha$'s and found two types of phase
transitions. For $\alpha\lesssim 0.6$ the ground state is given by the crossing
chain in a wide range of pancake separations $a\gtrsim [2-3]\lambda_J$.
However, due to attractive coupling between deformed pancake stacks, the
equilibrium separation can not exceed some maximum value depending on the
in-plane field and $\alpha$. The first phase transition takes place with
decreasing pancake-stack separation $a$ at $a=[1-2]\lambda_{J}$, and rather
wide range of the ratio $\alpha$, $0.4 \lesssim \alpha\lesssim 0.65$. With
decreasing $a$, the crossing chain goes through intermediate strongly-deformed
configurations and smoothly transforms into a tilted chain via a second-order
phase transition. Another phase transition occurs at very small densities of
pancake vortices, $a\sim [20-30]\lambda_J$, and only when $\alpha$ exceeds a
certain critical value $\sim 0.5$. In this case a small c-axis field penetrates
in the form of kinks. However, at very small concentration of kinks, the kinked
chains are replaced with strongly deformed crossing chains via a first-order
phase transition. This transition is accompanied by a very large jump in the
pancake density.