We solve exactly and describe in detail a simplified scalar model for the low
frequency shear rheology of foams, emulsions, slurries, etc. [P. Sollich, F.
Lequeux, P. Hebraud, M.E. Cates, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 2020 (1997)]. The model
attributes similarities in the rheology of such ``soft glassy materials'' to
the shared features of structural disorder and metastability. By focusing on
the dynamics of mesoscopic elements, it retains a generic character.
Interactions are represented by a mean-field noise temperature x, with a glass
transition occurring at x=1 (in appropriate units). The exact solution of the
model takes the form of a constitutive equation relating stress to strain
history, from which all rheological properties can be derived. For the linear
response, we find that both the storage modulus G' and the loss modulus G''
vary with frequency as \omega^{x-1} for 1<x<2, becoming flat near the glass
transition. In the glass phase, aging of the moduli is predicted. The steady
shear flow curves show power law fluid behavior for x<2, with a nonzero yield
stress in the glass phase; the Cox-Merz rule does not hold in this
non-Newtonian regime. Single and double step strains further probe the
nonlinear behavior of the model, which is not well represented by the BKZ
relation. Finally, we consider measurements of G' and G'' at finite strain
amplitude \gamma. Near the glass transition, G'' exhibits a maximum as \gamma
is increased in a strain sweep. Its value can be strongly overestimated due to
nonlinear effects, which can be present even when the stress response is very
nearly harmonic. The largest strain \gamma_c at which measurements still probe
the linear response is predicted to be roughly frequency-independent.