The PHOTOS Monte Carlo is often used for simulation of QED effects in decay
of intermediate particles and resonances. Momenta are generated in such a way
that samples of events cover the whole bremsstrahlung phase space. With the
help of selection cuts, experimental acceptance can be then taken into account.
The program is based on an exact multiphoton phase space. Crude matrix element
is obtained by iteration of a universal multidimensional kernel. It ensures
exact distribution in the soft photon region. Algorithm is compatible with
exclusive exponentiation. To evaluate the program's precision, it is necessary
to control the kernel with the help of perturbative results. If available,
kernel is constructed from the exact first order matrix element. This ensures
that all terms necessary for non-leading logarithms are taken into account. In
the present paper we will focus on the W -> l nu and gamma^* -> pi^+ pi^-
decays. The Born level cross sections for both processes approach zero in some
points of the phase space. A process dependent compensating weight is
constructed to incorporate the exact matrix element, but is recommended for use
in tests only. In the hard photon region, where scalar QED is not expected to
be reliable, the compensating weight for gamma^* decay can be large. With
respect to the total rate, the effect remains at the permille level. It is
nonetheless of interest. The terms leading to the effect are analogous to some
terms appearing in QCD. The present paper can be understood either as a
contribution to discussion on how to match two collinear emission chains
resulting from charged sources in a way compatible with the exact and complete
phase space, exclusive exponentiation and the first order matrix element of QED
(scalar QED), or as the practical study of predictions for accelerator
experiments.