Statistically analyzing Johnson UBVR observations of V1285 Aql during the
three observing seasons, both activity level and behavior of the star are
discussed in respect to obtained results. We also discuss the out-of-flare
variation due to rotational modulation. Eighty-three flares were detected in
the U-band observations of season 2006 . First, depending on statistical
analyses using the independent samples t-test, the flares were divided into two
classes as the fast and the slow flares. According to the results of the test,
there is a difference of about 73 s between the flare-equivalent durations of
slow and fast flares. The difference should be the difference mentioned in the
theoretical models. Second, using the one-phase exponential association
function, the distribution of the flare-equivalent durations versus the flare
total durations was modeled. Analyzing the model, some parameters such as
plateau, half-life values, mean average of the flare-equivalent durations,
maximum flare rise, and total duration times are derived. The plateau value,
which is an indicator of the saturation level of white-light flares, was
derived as 2.421{\pm}0.058 s in this model, while half-life is computed as 201
s. Analyses showed that observed maximum value of flare total duration is 4641
s, while observed maximum flare rise time is 1817 s. According to these
results, although computed energies of the flares occurring on the surface of
V1285 Aql are generally lower than those of other stars, the length of its
flaring loop can be higher than those of more active stars.