Context. With the latest infrared surveys, the number of massive protostellar
candidates has increased significantly. New studies have posed additional
questions on important issues about the formation, evolution, and other
phenomena related to them. Complementary to infrared data, radio observations
are a good tool to study the nature of these objects, and to diagnose the
formation stage. Aims. Here we study the far-infrared source IRAS 16353-4636
with the aim of understanding its nature and origin. In particular, we search
for young stellar objects (YSOs), possible outflow structure, and the presence
of non-thermal emission. Methods. Using high-resolution, multi-wavelength radio
continuum data obtained with the Australia Telescope Compact Array, we image
IRAS 16353-4636 and its environment from 1.4 to 19.6 GHz, and derive the
distribution of the spectral index at maximum angular resolution. We also
present new JHKs photometry and spectroscopy data obtained at ESO NTT. 13 CO
and archival HI line data, and infrared databases (MSX, GLIMPSE, MIPSGal) are
also inspected. Results. The radio continuum emission associated with IRAS
16353-4636 was found to be extended (~10 arcsec), with a bow-shaped morphology
above 4.8 GHz, and a strong peak persistent at all frequencies. The NIR
photometry led us to identify ten near-IR sources and classify them according
to their color. We used the HI line data to derive the source distance, and
analyzed the kinematical information from the CO and NIR lines detected.
Conclusions. We have identified the source IRAS 16353-4636 as a new
protostellar cluster. In this cluster we recognized three distinct sources: a
low-mass YSO, a high-mass YSOs, and a mildly confined region of intense and
non-thermal radio emission. We propose the latter corresponds to the terminal
part of an outflow.