Inspiraling compact binaries are promising sources of gravitational waves for
ground and space-based laser interferometric detectors. The time-dependent
signature of these sources in the detectors is a well-characterized function of
a relatively small number of parameters; thus, the favored analysis technique
makes use of matched filtering and maximum likelihood methods. Current analysis
methodology samples the matched filter output at parameter values chosen so
that the correlation between successive samples is 97% for which the filtered
output is closely correlated. Here we describe a straightforward and practical
way of using interpolation to take advantage of the correlation between the
matched filter output associated with nearby points in the parameter space to
significantly reduce the number of matched filter evaluations without
sacrificing the efficiency with which real signals are recognized. Because the
computational cost of the analysis is driven almost exclusively by the matched
filter evaluations, this translates directly into an increase in computational
efficiency, which in turn, translates into an increase in the size of the
parameter space that can be analyzed and, thus, the science that can be
accomplished with the data. As a demonstration we compare the present "dense
sampling" analysis methodology with our proposed "interpolation" methodology,
restricted to one dimension of the multi-dimensional analysis problem. We find
that the interpolated search reduces by 25% the number of filter evaluations
required by the dense search with 97% correlation to achieve the same
efficiency of detection for an expected false alarm probability. Generalized to
higher dimensional space of a generic binary including spins suggests an order
of magnitude increase in computational efficiency.