Using archival data from the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE), we study in
a systematic way the variation of the quality factor and amplitude of the lower
and upper kHz quasi-periodic oscillations (QPO) in the low-mass X-ray binary
4U1636-536, over a frequency range from ~550 Hz to ~1200 Hz. When represented
in a quality factor versus frequency diagram, the upper and lower QPOs follow
two different tracks, suggesting that they are distinct phenomena, although not
completely independent because the frequency difference of the two QPOs, when
detected simultaneously, remains within ~60 Hz of half the neutron star spin
frequency (at 581 Hz). The quality factor of the lower kHz QPO increases with
frequency up to a maximum of ~200 at ~850 Hz, then drops precipitously to Q~50
at the highest detected frequencies ~920 Hz. A ceiling of the lower QPO
frequencies at 920 Hz is also clearly seen in a frequency versus count rate
diagram.
  The quality factor provides a measure of the coherence of the underlying
oscillator. For exponentially damped sinusoidal shots, the highest Q observed
corresponds to an oscillator coherence time of ~ 0.1 seconds. All existing QPO
models face challenges in explaining such a long coherence time and the
significantly different behaviours of the quality factors of the upper and
lower QPOs reported here. It is therefore difficult to be certain of the
implications of the abrupt change in the lower QPO at ~850 Hz. We discuss
various possible causes, including that the drop in coherence is ultimately
caused by effects related to the innermost stable circular orbit (abridged).