We present orbit-resolved spectroscopic and photometric observations of the
polar ST LMi during its recent low and high states. In the low state spectra,
we report the presence of blue and red satellites to the H-alpha emission line;
the velocities and visibility of the satellites vary with phase. This behavior
is similar to emission line profile variations recently reported in the low
state of AM Her, which were interpreted as being due to magnetically-confined
gas motions in large loops near the secondary. Our low-state spectroscopy of ST
LMi is discussed in terms of extreme chromospheric activity on the secondary
star. Concurrent photometry indicates that occasional low-level accretion may
be present, as well as cool regions on the secondary near L1. Furthermore, we
report a new ``extreme low-state'' of the system at V~18.5mag. Our orbital
high-state spectroscopy reveals changes in the emission line profiles with
orbital phases that are similar to those reported by earlier high-state
studies. The complicated emission line profiles generally consist of two main
components. The first has radial velocity variations identical to that of the
major emission H-alpha component seen in the low state. The second is an
additional red-shifted component appearing at the phases of maximum visibility
of the accreting column of the white dwarf; it is interpreted as being due to
infall velocities on the accreting magnetic pole of the white dwarf. At the
opposite phases, an extended blue emission wing appears on the emission line
profiles. We confirm the presence of a broad absorption feature near 6275Ang
which has been previously identified as Zeeman sigma(-) absorption component to
H-alpha. This feature appears at just those phases when the accretion pole
region is mostly directly visible and most nearly face-on to the observer.