The trapped magnetic field is examined in bulk high-temperature
superconductors that are artificially drilled along their c-axis. The influence
of the hole pattern on the magnetization is studied and compared by means of
numerical models and Hall probe mapping techniques. To this aim, we consider
two bulk YBCO samples with a rectangular cross-section that are drilled each by
six holes arranged either on a rectangular lattice (sample I) or on a centered
rectangular lattice (sample II). For the numerical analysis, three different
models are considered for calculating the trapped flux: (i), a two-dimensional
(2D) Bean model neglecting demagnetizing effects and flux creep, (ii), a 2D
finite-element model neglecting demagnetizing effects but incorporating
magnetic relaxation in the form of an E-J power law, and, (iii), a 3D finite
element analysis that takes into account both the finite height of the sample
and flux creep effects. For the experimental analysis, the trapped magnetic
flux density is measured above the sample surface by Hall probe mapping
performed before and after the drilling process. The maximum trapped flux
density in the drilled samples is found to be smaller than that in the plain
samples. The smallest magnetization drop is found for sample II, with the
centered rectangular lattice. This result is confirmed by the numerical models.
In each sample, the relative drops that are calculated independently with the
three different models are in good agreement. As observed experimentally, the
magnetization drop calculated in the sample II is the smallest one and its
relative value is comparable to the measured one. By contrast, the measured
magnetization drop in sample (1) is much larger than that predicted by the
simulations, most likely because of a change of the microstructure during the
drilling process.