The evolution of magnetospheric indices on temporal scales shorter than that
of substorms is characterized by bursty, intermittent events that may arise
from turbulence intrinsic to the magnetosphere or may reflect solar
wind-magnetosphere coupling. This leads to a generic problem of distinguishing
between the features of the system and those of the driver. We quantify scaling
properties of short term (up to few hours) fluctuations in the geomagnetic
indices AL and AU during solar minimum and maximum along with the parameter
epsilon that is a measure of the solar wind driver. We find that self-similar
statistics provide a good approximation for the observed scaling properties of
fluctuations in the geomagnetic indices, regardless of the solar activity
level, and in the epsilon parameter at solar maximum. This self-similarity
persists for fluctuations on time scales at least up to about 1-2 hours. The
scaling exponent of AU index fluctuations show dependence on the solar cycle
and the trend follows that found in the scaling of fluctuations in epsilon. The
values of their corresponding scaling exponents, however, are always distinct.
Fluctuations in the AL index are insensitive to the solar cycle as well as
being distinct from those in the epsilon parameter. This approximate
self-similar scaling leads to a Fokker-Planck model which, we show, captures
the probability density function of fluctuations and provides a stochastic
dynamical equation (Langevin equation) for time series of the geomagnetic
indices.