This work relates the framework of model-based clustering for spatial
functional data where the data are surfaces. We first introduce a Bayesian
spatial spline regression model with mixed-effects (BSSR) for modeling spatial
function data. The BSSR model is based on Nodal basis functions for spatial
regression and accommodates both common mean behavior for the data through a
fixed-effects part, and variability inter-individuals thanks to a
random-effects part. Then, in order to model populations of spatial functional
data issued from heterogeneous groups, we integrate the BSSR model into a
mixture framework. The resulting model is a Bayesian mixture of spatial spline
regressions with mixed-effects (BMSSR) used for density estimation and
model-based surface clustering. The models, through their Bayesian formulation,
allow to integrate possible prior knowledge on the data structure and
constitute a good alternative to recent mixture of spatial spline regressions
model estimated in a maximum likelihood framework via the
expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm. The Bayesian model inference is
performed by Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling. We derive two Gibbs
sampler to infer the BSSR and the BMSSR models and apply them on simulated
surfaces and a real problem of handwritten digit recognition using the MNIST
data set. The obtained results highlight the potential benefit of the proposed
Bayesian approaches for modeling surfaces possibly dispersed in particular in
clusters.