The path length distribution of Galactic cosmic rays (GCRs) is the
fundamental ingredient for modeling the propagation process of GCRs based on
the so-called weighted slab method. We try to derive this distribution
numerically by taking into account the discreteness in both space and time of
occurrences of supernova explosions where GCRs are suspected to be born. We
solve numerically the stochastic differential equations equivalent to the
Parker diffusion-convection equation which describes the propagation process of
GCR in the Galaxy. We assume the three-dimensional diffusion is an isotropic
one without any free escape boundaries. We ignore any energy change of GCRs and
the existence of the Galactic wind for simplicity. We also assume axisymmetric
configurations for the density distributions of the interstellar matter and for
the surface density of supernovae. We have calculated age and path length of
GCR protons arriving at the solar system with this stochastic method. The
obtained age is not the escape time of GCRs from the Galaxy as usually assumed,
but the time spent by GCRs during their journey to the solar system from the
supernova remnants where they were born. The derived age and path length show a
distribution spread in a wide range even for GCR protons arriving at the solar
system with the same energy. The distributions show a cut-off at a lower range
in age or path length depending on the energy of GCRs. These cut-offs clearly
come from the discreteness of occurrence of supernovae. The mean age of GeV
particles obtained from the distributions is consistent with the age obtained
by direct observation of radioactive secondary nuclei. The energy dependence of
the B/C ratio estimated with the path length distribution reproduces reliably
the energy dependence of B/C obtained by recent observations in space.