For a complete 12 micron flux-limited sample of 207 IRAS sources, we have
extracted light curves in seven infrared bands between 1.25 - 60 microns using
the database of the DIRBE instrument on the COBE satellite. Using previous
infrared surveys, we filtered these light curves to remove datapoints affected
by nearby companions. In the time-averaged DIRBE color-color plots, we find
clear segregation of semi-regulars, Mira variables, carbon stars, OH/IR stars,
and red giants without circumstellar dust and with little or no visual
variation. The DIRBE 1.25 - 25 micron colors become progressively redder and
the variability in the DIRBE database increases along the oxygen-rich sequence
non-dusty slightly varying red giants -> SRb/Lb -> SRa -> Mira -> OH/IR and the
carbon-rich SRb/Lb -> Mira sequence. This supports previous assertions that
these are evolutionary sequences involving the continued production and
ejection of dust. Carbon stars are redder than oxygen-rich stars for the same
variability type, except in the F(12)/F(25) ratio. Of the 28 sources in the
sample not previous noted to be variable, 18 are clearly variable in the DIRBE
data, with amplitudes of variation of ~0.9 magnitudes at 4.9 microns and ~0.6
magnitudes at 12 microns, consistent with them being very dusty Mira-like
variables. The light curves of the semi-regular variable L2 Pup are
particularly remarkable. The maxima at 1.25, 2.2, and 3.5 microns occur 10 - 20
days before those at 4.9 and 12 microns, and, at 4.9 and 12 microns, another
maximum is seen between the two near-infrared maxima.