We present new results from accurate and fully general-relativistic
simulations of the coalescence of unmagnetized binary neutron stars with
various mass ratios. The evolution of the stars is followed through the
inspiral phase, the merger and prompt collapse to a black hole, up until the
appearance of a thick accretion disk, which is studied as it enters and remains
in a regime of quasi-steady accretion. Although a simple ideal-fluid equation
of state with \Gamma=2 is used, this work presents a systematic study within a
fully general relativistic framework of the properties of the resulting
black-hole--torus system produced by the merger of unequal-mass binaries. More
specifically, we show that: (1) The mass of the torus increases considerably
with the mass asymmetry and equal-mass binaries do not produce significant tori
if they have a total baryonic mass M_tot >~ 3.7 M_sun; (2) Tori with masses
M_tor ~ 0.2 M_sun are measured for binaries with M_tot ~ 3.4 M_sun and mass
ratios q ~ 0.75-0.85; (3) The mass of the torus can be estimated by the simple
expression M_tor(q, M_tot) = [c_1 (1-q) + c_2](M_max-M_tot), involving the
maximum mass for the binaries and coefficients constrained from the
simulations, and suggesting that the tori can have masses as large as M_tor ~
0.35 M_sun for M_tot ~ 2.8 M_sun and q ~ 0.75-0.85; (4) Using a novel technique
to analyze the evolution of the tori we find no evidence for the onset of
non-axisymmetric instabilities and that very little, if any, of their mass is
unbound; (5) Finally, for all the binaries considered we compute the complete
gravitational waveforms and the recoils imparted to the black holes, discussing
the prospects of detection of these sources for a number of present and future
detectors.