The MLE (Maximum Likelihood Estimate) for a multinomial model is proportional
to the data. We call such estimate an eigenestimate and the relationship of it
to the data as the eigenstructure. When the multinomial model is generalized to
deal with data arise from incomplete or censored categorical counts, we would
naturally look for this eigenstructure between MLE and data. The paper finds
the algebraic representation of the eigenstructure (put as Eqn (2.1)), with
which the intuition is visualized geometrically (Figures 2.2 and 4.3) and
elaborated in a theory (Section 4). The eigenestimate constructed from the
eigenstructure must be a stationary point of the likelihood, a result proved in
Theorem 4.42. On the bridge between the algebraic definition of Eqn (2.1) and
the Proof of Theorem 4.42, we have exploited an elementary inequality (Lemma
3.1) that governs the primitive cases, defined the thick objects of fragment
and slice which can be assembled like mechanical parts (Definition 4.1), proved
a few intermediary results that help build up the intuition (Section 4),
conjectured the universal existence of an eigenestimate (Conjecture 4.32),
established a criterion for boundary regularity (Criterion 4.37), and paved way
(the Trivial Slicing Algorithm (TSA)) for the derivation of the Weaver
algorithms (Section 5) that finds the eigenestimate by using it to reconstruct
the observed counts through the eigenstructure; the reconstruction is iterative
but derivative-free and matrix-inversion-free. As new addition to the current
body of algorithmic methods, the Weaver algorithms craftily tighten threads
that are weaved on a rectangular grid (Figure 2.3), and is one incarnation of
the TSA. Finally, we put our method in the context of some existing methods
(Section 6). Softwares are pseudocoded and put online. Visit
http://hku.hk/jdong/eigenstruct2013a.html for demonstrations and download.