The orbital distance at which close-in exoplanets maintain their initial mass
is investigated by modelling the maximum expected thermal and nonthermal mass
loss rates over several Gyr. Depending on an exosphere formation time and the
evolution of the stellar X-ray and EUV flux we expect that thermal evaporation
at orbital distances less than 0.05 AU may be an efficient loss process for
hydrogen-rich exoplanets with masses less than 0.25 MJup. Our results indicate
that nonthermal mass loss induced by Coronal Mass Ejections of the host star
can significantly erode weakly magnetized short periodic gas giants. The
observed exoplanets Gliese 876d at 0.0208 AU with a mass of about 0.033 MJup
and 55 Cnc e at 0.045 AU with a mass of about 0.038 MJup could be strongly
eroded gas giants, while HD69830b, at 0.078 AU, HD160691d at 0.09 AU and
HD69830c at 0.18 AU belonged most likely since their origin to the Neptune-mass
domain. The consequences for the planetary population predicted in paper I
(Wuchterl et al. 2006) for CoRoTs first field are: (1) for orbital distances
less than 0.05 AU (orbital periods less than days) weakly magnetized or highly
irradiated gas giants may loose a large fraction of their initial mass and
completely loose their gas envelopes. (2) Observed planetary mass spectra at
these periods that resemble the initial ones would indicate a major effect of
magnetic field protection and so far unknown thermospheric cooling processes.
(3) At distances larger than 0.05 AU the impact of loss processes is minor and
the observed mass spectra should be close to the initial ones.