Results of a CCD study of the variability of the cataclysmic variable BG CMi
obtained at the Korean 1.8m telescope in 2002-2005 are presented. The
"multi-comparison star" method had been applied for better accuracy estimates.
The linear ephemeris based on 19 mean maxima for 2002--2005 is HJD
2453105.31448(6)+0.01057257716(198)(E-764707). The period differs from that
predicted by the quadratic ephemeris by Pych et al. (1996) leading to a
possible cycle miscount. The statistically optimal ephemeris is a fourth-order
polynomial, as a quadratic or even a cubic ephemeris leads to unaceptably large
residuals: Min.HJD=$ 2445020.28095(28)+0.0105729609(57)E
-1.58(32)\cdot10^{-13}E^2-5.81(64)\cdot10^{-19}E^3+4.92(41)\cdot10^{-25}E^4.$
Thus the rate of the spin-up of the white dwarf is decreasing. An alternative
explanation is that the spin-up has been stopped during recent years. The
deviations between the amplutudes of the spin variability in V and R, as well
as between phases are not statistically significant. However, the orbital light
curves exhibit distinct difference; the corresponding color index shows a
nearly sinusoidal shape with a maximum at orbital phase $\sim0.2.$ The
variations of the amplitude of spin waves shows a short maximum at the phase of
the orbital dip. The corrected ephemeris for orbital minima is
Min.HJD=$2448368.7225(12)+0\fd13474841(6)\cdot(E-24849)$ with a narrow dip
occuring 0.07P later. The rate of the spin period variation seems to be
changed, justifying the necessity of regular observations of intermediate
polars.