This is the summary of first three years of activity of the EURETILE FP7
project 247846. EURETILE investigates and implements brain-inspired and
fault-tolerant foundational innovations to the system architecture of massively
parallel tiled computer architectures and the corresponding programming
paradigm. The execution targets are a many-tile HW platform, and a many-tile
simulator. A set of SW process - HW tile mapping candidates is generated by the
holistic SW tool-chain using a combination of analytic and bio-inspired
methods. The Hardware dependent Software is then generated, providing OS
services with maximum efficiency/minimal overhead. The many-tile simulator
collects profiling data, closing the loop of the SW tool chain. Fine-grain
parallelism inside processes is exploited by optimized intra-tile compilation
techniques, but the project focus is above the level of the elementary tile.
The elementary HW tile is a multi-processor, which includes a fault tolerant
Distributed Network Processor (for inter-tile communication) and ASIP
accelerators. Furthermore, EURETILE investigates and implements the innovations
for equipping the elementary HW tile with high-bandwidth, low-latency
brain-like inter-tile communication emulating 3 levels of connection hierarchy,
namely neural columns, cortical areas and cortex, and develops a dedicated
cortical simulation benchmark: DPSNN-STDP (Distributed Polychronous Spiking
Neural Net with synaptic Spiking Time Dependent Plasticity). EURETILE leverages
on the multi-tile HW paradigm and SW tool-chain developed by the FET-ACA SHAPES
Integrated Project (2006-2009).