Deviations from the center within a robust neighborhood of a parametric model
distribution may naturally be considered an infinite dimensional nuisance
parameter. Thus, the semiparametric method may be tried, which is to compute
the scores function for the main parameter minus its orthogonal projection on
the closed linear tangent space for the nuisance parameter, and then rescale
for Fisher consistency. In this paper, we derive such a semiparametric
influence curve by nonlinear projection on the tangent balls arising in robust
statistics.
  This semiparametric influence curve is then compared with the optimally
robust influence curve that minimizes maximum weighted mean square error of the
corresponding asymptotically linear estimators over infinitesimal
neighborhoods. For Hellinger balls, the two coincide (with the classical one).
In the total variation model, the semiparametric IC solves the robust MSE
problem for a particular bias weight. In the case of contamination
neighborhoods, the semiparametric IC is bounded only from above. Due to an
interchange of truncation and linear combination, the discrepancy increases
with the dimension.
  While there is coincidence for Hellinger balls, at least clipping is achieved
for total variation and contamination neighborhoods, but the semiparametric
method in general falls short to solve the minimax MSE estimation problem for
the gross error models.
  The semiparametric approach is carried further to testing contaminated
hypotheses. In the one-sided case, for testing hypotheses defined by any two
closed convex sets of tangents, a saddle point is furnished by projection on
the set of differences of these sets. For total variation and contamination
neighborhoods, we thus recover the robust asymptotic tests based on least
favorable pairs. So the two approaches agree in the testing context.