Ti-substituted perovskites, La0.7Sr0.3Mn1-xTixO3, with x between 0 to 0.20,
were investigated by neutron diffraction, magnetization, electric resistivity,
and magnetoresistance (MR) measurements. All samples show a rhombohedral
structure (space group R3c) from 10 K to room temperature. At room temperature,
the cell parameters a, c and the unit cell volume increase with increasing Ti
content. However, at 10 K, the cell parameter a has a maximum value for x =
0.10, and decreases for x greater than 0.10, while the unit cell volume remains
nearly constant for x greater than 0.10. The average (Mn,Ti)-O bond length
increases up to x=0.15, and the (Mn,Ti)-O-(Mn,Ti) bond angle decreases with
increasing Ti content to its minimum value at x=0.15 at room temperature. Below
the Curie temperature T_C, the resistance exhibits metallic behavior for the x
_ 0.05 samples. A metal (semiconductor) to insulator transition is observed for
the x_ 0.10 samples. A peak in resistivity appears below T_C for all samples,
and shifts to a lower temperature as x increases. The substitution of Mn by Ti
decreases the 2p-3d hybridization between O and Mn ions, reduces the bandwidth
W, and increases the electron-phonon coupling. Therefore, the TC shifts to a
lower temperature and the resistivity increases with increasing Ti content. A
field-induced shift of the resistivity maximum occurs at x less than or equal
to 0.10. The maximum MR effect is about 70% for La0.7Sr0.3Mn0.8Ti0.2O3. The
separation of TC and the resistivity maximum temperature Tmax enhances the MR
effect in these compounds due to the weak coupling between the magnetic
ordering and the resistivity as compared with La0.7Sr0.3MnO3.