We show that for luminous, non-barred, high-surface brightness (HSB) spirals
the Tully-Fisher (TF) relation residuals can be used to estimate the relative
mass contributions of the stellar disk and the dark halo at the peak of the
disk rotation, near 2.2 exponential scale lengths (Rh). For "maximal disks", a
large fraction (0.85 +/- 0.10) of the total rotational support, V2.2, at such
radii should arise from their stellar mass. We find that the disk size, or
surface brightness, is not a significant additional parameter in the TF
relation and the case of a maximal disk is ruled out for most HSB galaxies. We
model adiabatic infall of varying amounts of luminous matter into dark matter
halos and find that the TF relation residuals require a mean value of
V2.2/Vtotal ~ 0.6 +/- 0.1, fairly insensitive to the details of the initial
dark matter halo and to the presence of a bulge. This translates to
Mhalo/Mtotal ~ 0.6 within 2.2*Rh, or roughly twice more dark matter in the
inner parts of late-type spirals than previously accounted for by maximum disk
fits. We show that any stellar population differences between disks of
different scalelengths lead to lower values of V2.2/Vtotal. Our result is
independent of the shape of the luminosity profile and relies only on the
assumption of adiabatic contraction and that the dark matter halo rotation
rises in the central parts of the galaxy. Sub-maximal disks establish a natural
continuity between HSB and low-surface brightness (LSB) galaxies which appear
to be completely dark matter dominated even in their inner regions. (Abridged)