Detailed calculations for the stellar evolution, explosion and light curves
have been performed to quantify the influence of the main sequence mass M(MS)
and the metallicity of the progenitor on the structure of the exploding WD
which are thought to be the progenitors of SNe Ia. In particular,we study the
effects of progenitors on the brightness decline relation M(dM_15) which is a
corner stone for the use of SNe Ia as cosmological yard-stick.M(MS) has been
identified as the decisive factor to change the energetics of the explosion and
dominates the variations in the rise-time to decline relation of light curves.
M(MS) has little effect on the color index B-V. For similar decline rates
dM_15, the flux at maximum brightness relative to the flux on the radioactive
tail decreases systematically with M(MS) by about 0.2mag. This change goes
along with a reduc- tion of the photospheric expansion velocity $v_{ph}$ by
about 2000 km/sec. A change in the central density has the opposite dependency.
The metallicity Z affects mainly the intrinsic color index B-V by up to
-0.06mag, and it alters the fluxes in the U band and the UV. B-V is critical if
extinction corrections are applied. The spread in the fiducial rise-time to
decline relation in local SNe Ia restricts the range of main sequence masses to
a factor of 2. The upper limit of 1 day for the difference between the local
and distance sample support the need for a positive cosmological constant. The
size of evolutionary effects are small (dM abou 0.2mag) but are absolutely
critical for the reconstruction of the cosmological equation of state.