We investigated the optical light curve of T Pyx during its 2011 outburst
through compiling a database of SMEI and AAVSO observations. The SMEI light
curve, providing unprecedented detail with high cadence data during t=1.5-49
days post-discovery, was divided into four phases based on the idealised nova
optical light curve; the initial rise, the pre-maximum halt (or the 'plateau'),
the final rise, and the early decline. Variation in the SMEI light curve
reveals a strongly detected period of 1.44\pm0.04 days before the visual
maximum. The spectra from the LT and SMARTS telescopes were investigated during
t=0.8-80.7 and 155.1-249.9 days. The nova was observed very early in its rise
and a distinct high velocity ejection phase was evident. A marked drop and then
gradual increase in derived ejection velocities were present. Here we propose
two different stages of mass loss, a short-lived phase occurring immediately
after outburst followed by a more steadily evolving and higher mass loss phase.
The overall spectral development follows that typical of a Classical Nova and
comparison to the photometric behaviour reveals consistencies with the simple
evolving pseudo-photosphere model of the nova outburst. The optical spectra are
also compared to X-ray and radio light curves. Weak [Fe X] 6375A emission was
marginally detected before the rise in X-ray emission. The middle of the
plateau in the X-ray light curve is coincident with the appearance of high
ionization species detected in optical spectra and the peak of the high
frequency radio flux.