Recent observations have revealed that some Type Ia supernovae exhibit
narrow, time-variable Na I D absorption features. The origin of the absorbing
material is controversial, but it may suggest the presence of circumstellar gas
in the progenitor system prior to the explosion, with significant implications
for the nature of the supernova progenitors. We present the third detection of
such variable absorption, based on six epochs of high-resolution spectroscopy
of the Type Ia supernova SN 2007le from Keck and the HET. The data span ~3
months, from 5 days before maximum light to 90 days after maximum. We find that
one component of the Na D absorption lines strengthened significantly with
time, indicating a total column density increase of ~2.5 x 10^12 cm^-2. The
changes are most prominent after maximum light rather than at earlier times
when the UV flux from the SN peaks. As with SN 2006X, we detect no change in
the Ca II H&K lines over the same time period, rendering line-of-sight effects
improbable and suggesting a circumstellar origin for the absorbing material.
Unlike the previous two SNe exhibiting variable absorption, SN 2007le is not
highly reddened (E_B-V = 0.27 mag), also pointing toward circumstellar rather
than interstellar absorption. Photoionization models show that the data are
consistent with a dense (10^7 cm^-3) cloud or clouds of gas located ~0.1 pc
from the explosion. These results broadly support the single-degenerate
scenario previously proposed to explain the variable absorption, with mass loss
from a nondegenerate companion star responsible for providing the circumstellar
gas. We also present tentative evidence for narrow Halpha emission associated
with the SN, which will require followup observations at late times to confirm.
[abridged]