It has been shown recently that taking into account strong, weak,
electromagnetic, and gravitational interactions, and fulfilling the global
charge neutrality of the system, a transition layer will happen between the
core and crust of neutron stars, at the nuclear saturation density. We use
relativistic mean field theory together with the Thomas-Fermi approximation to
study the detailed structure of this transition layer and calculate its surface
and Coulomb energy. We find that the surface tension is proportional to a
power-law function of the baryon number density in the core bulk region. We
also analyze the influence of the electron component and the gravitational
field on the structure of the transition layer and the value of the surface
tension to compare and contrast with known phenomenological results in nuclear
physics. Based on the above results we study the instability against
Bohr-Wheeler surface deformations in the case of neutron stars obeying global
charge neutrality. Assuming the core-crust transition at nuclear density
$\rho_{core}\approx 2.7 * 10^{14}$ g cm$^{-3}$, we find that the instability
sets the upper limit to the crust density, $\rho_{crust}^{crit}\approx 1.2 *
10^{14}$ g cm$^{-3}$. This result implies a nonzero lower limit to the maximum
electric field of the core-crust transition surface and makes inaccessible a
limit of quasilocal charge neutrality in the limit $\rho_{crust}=\rho_{core}$.
The general framework presented here can be also applied to study the stability
of sharp phase transitions in hybrid stars as well as in strange stars, both
bare and with outer crust. The results of this work open the way to a more
general analysis of the stability of these transition surfaces, accounting for
other effects such as gravitational binding, centrifugal repulsion, magnetic
field induced by rotating electric field, and therefore magnetic dipole-dipole
interactions.