Using a multi-phase transport (AMPT) model that includes the implementation
of deformed Uranium nuclei, we have studied the centrality dependence of the
charged particle multiplicity, <pT>, eccentricity (e2), triangularity (e3),
their fluctuations, elliptic flow (v2) and triangular flow (v3) for different
configurations of U+U collisions at midrapidity for \sqrt(s_NN)=200 GeV. The
results are compared to the corresponding observations from Au+Au collisions.
We find that for the U+U collisions the dNch/d\eta at midrapidity is enhanced
by about 15-40% depending on the collision and model configuration chosen,
compared to Au+Au collisions. The tip-to-tip collisions leads to the largest
values of Nch,transverse energy (ET) and <pT>. The <e2> and its fluctuation
shows a rich centrality dependence, whereas not much variations are observed
for <e3> and its fluctuations. The U+U side-on-side collision configuration
provides maximum values of <e2> and minimum values of eccentricity
fluctuations, whereas for peripheral collisions and mid-central collisions
minimum values of <e2> and maximum value of eccentricity fluctuations are
observed for body-to-body configuration and the tip-to-tip configuration has
minimum value of <e2> and maximum value of eccentricity fluctuations for
central collisions. The calculated v2 closely correlates with the eccentricity
in the model. It is smallest for the body-to-body configuration in peripheral
and mid-central collisions while it is minimum for tip-to-tip configuration in
central collisions. For peripheral collisions the v2 in U+U can be about 40%
larger than in Au+Au whereas for central collisions it can be a factor 2 higher
depending on the collision configuration. It is also observed that the v3(pT)
is higher for tip-to-tip and body-to-body configurations compared to other
systems for the collision centrality studied.