Models of self-gravitating gas in the early stages of pressure-free collapse
are compared for initial states which are equilibrium layers, cylinders, and
Bonnor-Ebert spheres. For each geometrical case the density profile has an
inner region of shallow slope surrounded by an outer region of steep slope, and
the profile shape during early collapse remains similar to the profile shape of
the initial equilibrium. The two-slope density structure divides the spherical
collapse history into a starless infall phase and a protostellar accretion
phase. The similarity of density profiles implies that Bonnor-Ebert fits to
observed column density maps may not distinguish spherical cores from oblate or
prolate cores, and may not distinguish static cores from collapsing cores. The
velocity profiles discriminate better than the density profiles between initial
geometries and between collapse ages. The infall velocity generally has a
subsonic maximum value, which is approximately equal to the initial velocity
dispersion times the ratio of collapse age to central free-fall time.
  Observations of starless core line profiles constrain collapse models.
Collapse from initial states which are strongly condensed and slightly prolate
is consistent with infall asymmetry observed around starless cores, and is more
consistent than collapse from initial states which are weakly condensed, and/or
oblate. Spherical models match observed inward speeds 0.05-0.09 km/s over
0.1-0.2 pc, if the collapse has a typical age 0.3-0.5 free fall times, and if
it began from a centrally condensed state which was not in stable equilibrium.
In a collapsing core, optically thin line profiles should broaden and develop
two-peak structure as seen in L1544.