Relativistic electron fluxes observed in geosynchronous orbit by GOES-8 in
1997 to 2000 were considered as a complex function of geomagnetic indices PC,
Kp, and Dst as well as parameters of the magnetosphere size, subsolar Rs and
terminator Rf magnetopause distances. A geosynchronous relativistic electron
enhancement (GREE) is determined as daily maximal electron flux exceeding the
upper root mean square deviation (RMSD) threshold of about 1500 (cm2s sr)-1.
Comparison analysis of the GREE dynamics and geomagnetic conditions on the
rising phase of current solar cycle revealed suppression of the relativistic
electron enhancements by substantially increased strong geomagnetic activity in
the solar maximum. Statistical consideration of a relationship between the
GREEs and the geomagnetic parameters showed that the most important parameters
controlling the geosynchronous relativistic electron enhancements were 4-day
averaged Kp index, PC index and magnetopause termination distance Rf delayed
respectively on 3 and 14 hours. Relatively high averaging time for Kp was
explained by cumulative effect of substorm energy release in a gradual
mechanism accelerating the relativistic electrons in the magnetosphere. Very
short time delay for PC index was interpreted as intensification of a fast
acceleration mechanism producing the GREEs during severe geomagnetic storms.
Substantial increase of the PC index (PC>5) was founded as a sufficient
condition for GREE occurrence. The fast response of the geosynchronous
relativistic electron fluxes on the magnetosphere compression was explained by
drift losses of the energetic electrons at the magnetopause which approaches
the Earth during geomagnetic storms.