Here we present a kinematic study of the Galactic halo out to a radius of
$\sim$ 60 kpc, using 4664 blue horizontal branch (BHB) stars selected from the
SDSS/SEGUE survey, to determine key dynamical properties. Using a maximum
likelihood analysis, we determine the velocity dispersion profiles in spherical
coordinates ($\sigma_{r}$, $\sigma_{\theta}$, $\sigma_{\phi}$) and the
anisotropy profile ($\beta$). The radial velocity dispersion profile
($\sigma_{r}$) is measured out to a galactocentric radius of $r \sim 60$ kpc,
but due to the lack of proper-motion information, $\sigma_{\theta}$,
$\sigma_{\phi}$ and $\beta$ could only be derived directly out to $r \sim25$
kpc. From a starting value of $\beta\approx 0.5$ in the inner parts
($9<r/\kpc<12$), the profile falls sharply in the range $r \approx 13-18$ kpc,
with a minimum value of $\beta=-1.2$ at $r=17$ kpc, rising sharply at larger
radius. In the outer parts, in the range $25<r/\kpc<56$, we predict the profile
to be roughly constant with a value of $\beta\approx 0.5$. The newly discovered
kinematic anomalies are shown not to arise from halo substructures. We also
studied the anisotropy profile of simulated stellar halos formed purely by
accretion and found that they cannot reproduce the sharp dip seen in the data.
From the Jeans equation, we compute the stellar rotation curve ($v_{\rm circ}$)
of the Galaxy out to $r \sim 25$ kpc. The mass of the Galaxy within $r \lesssim
25$ kpc is determined to be $2.1 \times 10^{11}$ $M_{\sun}$, and with a
3-component fit to $v_{\rm circ}(r)$, we determine the virial mass of the Milky
Way dark matter halo to be $M_{\rm vir} = 0.9 ^{+0.4}_{-0.3} \times 10^{12}$
$M_{\sun}$ ($R_{\rm vir} = 249^{+34}_{-31}$ kpc).