We present a sequence of I-band images obtained at the Venezuela 1m Schmidt
telescope during the outburst of the nebula recently discovered by J.W. McNeil
in the Orion L1630 molecular cloud. We derive photometry spanning the
pre-outburst state and the brightening itself, a unique record including 14
epochs and spanning a time scale of ~5 years. We constrain the beginning of the
outburst at some time between Oct. 28 and Nov. 15, 2003. The light curve of the
object at the vertex of the nebula, the likely exciting source of the outburst,
reveals that it has brightened ~5 magnitudes in about 4 months. The time scale
for the nebula to develop is consistent with the light travel time, indicating
that we are observing light from the central source scattered by the ambient
cloud into the line of sight. We also show recent FLWO optical spectroscopy of
the exciting source and of the nearby HH 22. The spectrum of the source is
highly reddened; in contrast, the spectrum of HH 22 shows a shock spectrum
superimposed on a continuum, most likely due to reflected light from the
exciting source reaching the HH object through a much less reddened path. The
blue portion of this spectrum is consistent with an early B spectral type,
similar to the early outburst spectrum of the FU Ori variable V1057 Cyg; we
estimate a luminosity of L ~219 Lsun. The eruptive behavior of the McNeil
nebula source, its spectroscopic characteristics and luminosity, suggest we may
be witnessing an FU Ori event on its way to maximum. Further monitoring of this
object will decide whether it qualifies as a member of this rare class of
objects.