In many scenarios, networks emerge endogenously as cognitive agents establish
links in order to exchange information. Network formation has been widely
studied in economics, but only on the basis of simplistic models that assume
that the value of each additional piece of information is constant. In this
paper we present a first model and associated analysis for network formation
under the much more realistic assumption that the value of each additional
piece of information depends on the type of that piece of information and on
the information already possessed: information may be complementary or
redundant. We model the formation of a network as a non-cooperative game in
which the actions are the formation of links and the benefit of forming a link
is the value of the information exchanged minus the cost of forming the link.
We characterize the topologies of the networks emerging at a Nash equilibrium
(NE) of this game and compare the efficiency of equilibrium networks with the
efficiency of centrally designed networks. To quantify the impact of
information redundancy and linking cost on social information loss, we provide
estimates for the Price of Anarchy (PoA); to quantify the impact on individual
information loss we introduce and provide estimates for a measure we call
Maximum Information Loss (MIL). Finally, we consider the setting in which
agents are not endowed with information, but must produce it. We show that the
validity of the well-known "law of the few" depends on how information
aggregates; in particular, the "law of the few" fails when information displays
complementarities.