NGC 205 is the nearest example of a dwarf elliptical (dE) galaxy and the
prototype of this enigmatic galaxy class. Photometric evidence suggests that
NGC 205, a close satellite of the M31 galaxy, is tidally interacting with its
parent galaxy. We present stellar radial velocity measurements out to a
projected radius of 20' (5 kpc) in NGC 205 based on Keck/DEIMOS multislit
spectroscopic observations of 725 individual red giant branch stars. Our
kinematic measurements extend from the center out to six times the effective
radius of NGC 205, well past the expected tidal radius. The contamination in
our kinematic sample from M31 field stars is estimated to be a few percent
based on maximum likelihood fits. We measure a maximum major-axis rotation
speed for the body of NGC 205 of 11+/- 5 kms; this is the first dE galaxy in
which the maximum rotation velocity has been measured. Combined with the
velocity dispersion, we conclude that NGC 205 is supported by a combination of
rotation and random motions. At a major-axis distance of 4.5' (1 kpc), the
velocity profile of NGC 205 turns over; stars beyond this radius are moving
counter to the rotation of the inner part of the galaxy. The turnover radius is
coincident with the onset of isophotal twisting and the estimated tidal radius,
suggesting that the outer kinematics of NGC 205 are dominated by gravitational
interactions with the nearby M31 galaxy. The motion of stars beyond a radius of
4.5' implies that NGC 205 is in a prograde encounter with its parent galaxy
M31.