A recent paper by King and Ritter (1998: hereafter KR) proposed that the
light curves of soft X-ray transients (SXTs) are dominated by the effect of
irradiation of the accretion disc by the central X-rays. This prevents the
onset of the cooling wave which would otherwise return the disc to the
quiescent state, and so prolongs the outbursts beyond those in dwarf nova
discs. KR show that the decay of the resulting X-ray light curve should be
exponential or linear depending on whether or not the observed peak X-ray
luminosity is sufficient to ionize the outer edge of the accretion disc. Here
we examine the observed X-ray decays, and show that they are exponential or
linear according as the peak luminosity is greater or smaller than the critical
value defined by KR, strongly suggesting that the light curves are indeed
irradiation--dominated. We show further that the occurrence of an exponential
or linear decay tends to favour the same type of decay in subsequent outbursts,
so that systems usually show only one or the other type. We use the equations
of KR and the observed X-ray light curve to determine the size $R_{h}$ of the
hot disc at the peak of the outburst. For exponential decays, $R_{h}$ is found
to be comparable to the circularization radius, as expected since the disc
consists entirely of material transferred from the secondary since the previous
outburst. Further, $R_h$ is directly proportional to the time at which one sees
the secondary maximum ($t_{s}$), as expected if $t_{s}$ is the viscous
timescale of the irradiated disc. This implies that the orders of magnitude of
the viscosity parameter alpha and disc aspect ratio H/R are such that alpha
(H/R)~0.01. Observation of a secondary maximum calibrates the peak luminosity
and gives an eqaution for the distance to the source.