The spectra of pure, mixed and layered CO and CO2 ices have been studied
systematically under laboratory conditions using infrared spectroscopy. This
work provides improved resolution spectra (0.5 cm-1) of the CO2 bending and
asymmetric stretching mode, as well as the CO stretching mode, extending the
existing Leiden database of laboratory spectra to match the spectral resolution
reached by modern telescopes and to support the interpretation of the most
recent data from Spitzer. It is shown that mixed and layered CO and CO2 ices
exhibit very different spectral characteristics, which depend critically on
thermal annealing and can be used to distinguish between mixed, layered and
thermally annealed CO-CO2 ices. CO only affects the CO2 bending mode spectra in
mixed ices below 50K under the current experimental conditions, where it
exhibits a single asymmetric band profile in intimate mixtures. In all other
ice morphologies the CO2 bending mode shows a double peaked profile, similar to
that observed for pure solid CO2. Conversely, CO2 induces a blue-shift in the
peak-position of the CO stretching vibration, to a maximum of 2142 cm-1 in
mixed ices, and 2140-2146 cm-1 in layered ices. As such, the CO2 bending mode
puts clear constraints on the ice morphology below 50K, whereas beyond this
temperature the CO2 stretching vibration can distinguish between initially
mixed and layered ices. This is illustrated for the low-mass YSO HH46, where
the laboratory spectra are used to analyse the observed CO and CO2 band
profiles and try to constrain the formation scenarios of CO2.