We cross-correlate QSOs from the 2dF Survey with galaxy groups. The galaxy
samples are limited to B < 20.5. We use an objective algorithm to detect galaxy
groups. A 3sigma anti-correlation is observed between QSOs and galaxy groups.
This paucity of faint QSOs around groups is neither a selection effect nor due
to restrictions on the placement of 2dF fibres. By observing the colours of
QSOs on the scales of the anti-correlation, we limit dust in galaxy groups,
finding a maximum reddening of E(b_j-r) < 0.012 at the 95% level. The small
amount of dust thus inferred is insufficient to cause the anti-correlation,
supporting the suggestion by Croom & Shanks that the signal is due to
gravitational lensing. The possibility remains that tailored dust models, such
as grey dust, heavy patches of dust or a combination of dust and lensing, could
explain the anti-correlation. Assuming the signal is caused by lensing rather
than dust, we measure the average velocity dispersion of a Singular Isothermal
Sphere that would cause the anti-correlation as around 1150 km/s. Simulations
reject 600 km/s at the 5% significance level. We also model foreground lenses
as NFW haloes and measure the typical mass within 1.5 Mpc/h of the halo centre
as M_{1.5} = (1.2 +/- 0.9) x 10^{15} solarmasses/h. Regardless of whether we
utilise a SIS or NFW dark matter profile, our model favours more mass in groups
than accounted for in a universe with density parameter Omega_m = 0.3. Detailed
simulations and galaxy group redshifts will significantly reduce the current
systematic uncertainties in these $\Omega_m$ estimates. Reducing the remaining
uncertainty will require larger QSO and galaxy group surveys (abridged).