We assess the performance of recent density functionals for the
exchange-correlation energy of a nonmolecular solid, by applying accurate
calculations with the GAUSSIAN, BAND, and VASP codes to a test set of 24 solid
metals and non-metals. The functionals tested are the modified
Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof generalized gradient approximation (PBEsol GGA), the
second-order GGA (SOGGA), and the Armiento-Mattsson 2005 (AM05) GGA. For
completeness, we also test more-standard functionals: the local density
approximation, the original PBE GGA, and the Tao-Perdew-Staroverov-Scuseria
(TPSS) meta-GGA. We find that the recent density functionals for solids reach a
high accuracy for bulk properties (lattice constant and bulk modulus). For the
cohesive energy, PBE is better than PBEsol overall, as expected, but PBEsol is
actually better for the alkali metals and alkali halides. For fair comparison
of calculated and experimental results, we consider the zero-point phonon and
finite-temperature effects ignored by many workers. We show how Gaussian basis
sets and inaccurate experimental reference data may affect the rating of the
quality of the functionals. The results show that PBEsol and AM05 perform
somewhat differently from each other for alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and
alkali halide crystals (where the maximum value of the reduced density gradient
is about 2), but perform very similarly for most of the other solids (where it
is often about 1). Our explanation for this is consistent with the importance
of exchange-correlation nonlocality in regions of core-valence overlap.