Various 2-particle direct photon-hadron correlation strengths and yields in
$p+p$ and $Au+Au$ collisions at sqrtsNN= 200 GeV are presented. The per-trigger
yield of direct photon hadron pairs from direct-photon-jet correlations in is
obtained by a statistical subtraction of the decay photon pairs from inclusive
photon-hadron sample. The decay photon per-trigger yields are estimated from
the measured $\pi^0$-hadron by means of a Monte Carlo based calculation which
takes into account decay kinematics and detector response. Under the assumption
that the suppression is nearly pt independent using a specific averaging
scheme, we find an average ratio of Au+Au to p+p per-trigger photon yields,
$I_{AA}$, consistent with the single particle suppression level Raa, which can
be interpreted as a qualitative confirmation of the basic geometrical picture
of jet suppression at RHIC. The application of the event by event photon
isolation cuts in $p+p$ results our highest precision measurement yet, and
allows for precision studies of the baseline fragmentation function $D(z)$, and
well as a variable \pout which is proportional to the apparent intrinsic $k_T$,
or non-zero transverse momentum of the original collision partons. With a model
dependent extraction method, the average $sqrt(<k_T^2>)$ at this center of mass
energy in p+p is found to be in the vicinity of 3 GeV, consistent with analysis
of di-hadron (di-jet) correlations. This and the improved precision in the
isolated yields warrant further comparison with the baseline perturbative QCD
(pQCD) calculations used in the various models of jet energy loss. Finally, we
present a unique direct measurement of single prompt photons from jet
fragmentation.