Differences in the regional substitution patterns in the human genome created
patterns of large-scale variation of base composition known as genomic
isochores. To gain insight into the origin of the genomic isochores we develop
a maximum likelihood approach to determine the history of substitution patterns
in the human genome. This approach utilizes the vast amount of repetitive
sequence deposited in the human genome over the past ~250 MYR. Using this
approach we estimate the frequencies of seven types of substitutions: the four
transversions, two transitions, and the methyl-assisted transition of cytosine
in CpG. Comparing substitutional patterns in repetitive elements of various
ages, we reconstruct the history of the base-substitutional process in the
different isochores for the past 250 Myr. At around 90 Myr ago (around the time
of the mammalian radiation), we find an abrupt 4- to 8-fold increase of the
cytosine transition rate in CpG pairs compared to that of the reptilian
ancestor. Further analysis of nucleotide substitutions in regions with
different GC-content reveals concurrent changes in the substitutional patterns.
While the substitutional pattern was dependent on the regional GC-content in
such ways that it preserved the regional GC-content before the mammalian
radiation, it lost this dependence afterwards. The substitutional pattern
changed from an isochore-preserving to an isochore-degrading one. We conclude
that isochores have been established before the radiation of the eutherian
mammals and have been subject to the process of homogenization since then.