The stochastic block model (SBM) is a popular tool for community detection in
networks, but fitting it by maximum likelihood (MLE) involves an infeasible
optimization problem. We propose a new semi-definite programming (SDP) solution
to the problem of fitting the SBM, derived as a relaxation of the MLE. Our
relaxation, which we call SDP-1, is tighter than other recently proposed SDP
relaxations, namely what we call SDP-2 and SDP-3, and thus previously
established theoretical guarantees carry over. However, we show that SDP-1 is,
in fact, strongly consistent (i.e., exactly recovers true communities) over a
wider class of SBMs than what current results suggest. In particular, one can
relax the assumption of strong assortativity, implicit in consistency
conditions of current SDPs, to that of (weak) assortativity for SDP-1, thus,
significantly broadening the class of applicable models. Our approach in
deriving strong consistency results is based on a primal-dual witness
construction, and as a by-product we recover current results for SDP-2. Our
approach also suggests that strong assortativity is necessary for the success
of SDP-2 and SDP-3 and is not an artifact of the current proofs. We provide
empirical evidence of this conjecture, in addition to other numerical results
comparing these SDPs, and adjacency-based spectral clustering, on real and
synthetic data. Another feature of our relaxation is the tendency to produce
more balanced (i.e., equal-sized) communities which, as we show with a
real-data example, makes it the ideal tool for fitting network histograms, a
concept gaining popularity in the graphon estimation literature. A general
theme throughout will be to view all these SDPs within a unified framework,
specifically, as relaxations of the MLE over various sub-classes of the SBM.
This also leads to a connection with the well-known problem of sparse PCA.