We explore the use of generalized t priors on regression coefficients to help
understand the nature of association signal within "hit regions" of genome-wide
association studies. The particular generalized t distribution we adopt is a
Student distribution on the absolute value of its argument. For low degrees of
freedom we show that the generalized t exhibits 'sparsity-prior' properties
with some attractive features over other common forms of sparse priors and
includes the well known double-exponential distribution as the degrees of
freedom tends to infinity. We pay particular attention to graphical
representations of posterior statistics obtained from sparsity-path-analysis
(SPA) where we sweep over the setting of the scale (shrinkage / precision)
parameter in the prior to explore the space of posterior models obtained over a
range of complexities, from very sparse models with all coefficient
distributions heavily concentrated around zero, to models with diffuse priors
and coefficients distributed around their maximum likelihood estimates. The SPA
plots are akin to LASSO plots of maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimates but they
characterise the complete marginal posterior distributions of the coefficients
plotted as a function of the precision of the prior. Generating posterior
distributions over a range of prior precisions is computationally challenging
but naturally amenable to sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) algorithms indexed on
the scale parameter. We show how SMC simulation on graphic-processing-units
(GPUs) provides very efficient inference for SPA. We also present a
scale-mixture representation of the generalized t prior that leads to an EM
algorithm to obtain MAP estimates should only these be required.