[ABRIDGED] We present the first resolved images of the debris disk around the
nearby K dwarf HD 92945. Our F606W (V) and F814W (I) HST/ACS coronagraphic
images reveal an inclined, axisymmetric disk consisting of an inner ring
2".0-3".0 (43-65 AU) from the star and an extended outer disk whose surface
brightness declines slowly with increasing radius 3".0-5".1 (65-110 AU) from
the star. A precipitous drop in the surface brightness beyond 110 AU suggests
that the outer disk is truncated at that distance. The radial surface-density
profile is peaked at both the inner ring and the outer edge of the disk. The
dust in the outer disk scatters neutrally but isotropically, and it has a low
V-band albedo of 0.1. We also present new Spitzer MIPS photometry and IRS
spectra of HD 92945. These data reveal no infrared excess from the disk
shortward of 30 micron and constrain the width of the 70 micron source to < 180
AU. Assuming the dust comprises compact grains of astronomical silicate with a
surface-density profile described by our scattered-light model of the disk, we
successfully model the 24-350 micron emission with a minimum grain size of
a_min = 4.5 micron and a size distribution proportional to a^-3.7 throughout
the disk, but with a maximum grain size of 900 micron in the inner ring and 50
micron in the outer disk. Our observations indicate a total dust mass of ~0.001
M_earth. However, they provide contradictory evidence of the dust's physical
characteristics: its neutral V-I color and lack of 24 micron emission imply
grains larger than a few microns, but its isotropic scattering and low albedo
suggest a large population of submicron-sized grains. The dynamical causes of
the disk's morphology are unclear, but recent models of dust creation and
transport in the presence of migrating planets indicate an advanced state of
planet formation around HD 92945.