Physical understanding of the crack origin and quantitative physical
prediction of the crack volume variation far from the clay soil surface are
necessary to protect the underlying aquifers from pollutants. The basis of this
work is an available physical model for predicting the shrinkage and swelling
curves in the maximum water content range (the primary curves) and crack volume
variation. The objective of the work is to generalize this model to the
conditions of the deep layer of a clayey vadose zone with the overburden
pressure, multiple shrinkage-swelling, and variation of water content in a
small range. We aim to show that the scanning shrinkage and swelling curves,
and steady shrink-swell cycles existing in such conditions, inevitably lead to
the occurrence of cracks and a hysteretic crack volume. The generalization is
based on the transition to the increasingly complex soil medium from the
contributive clay, through the intra-aggregate matrix and aggregated soil with
no cracking, to the soil with cracks. The results indicate the single-valued
physical links between the scanning shrink-swell cycles and crack volume
variation of the four soil media on the one hand, and primary shrinkage and
swelling curves of the media on the other hand. The predicted cycles and crack
volume hysteresis can be expressed through the physical properties and
conditions of the soil at a given depth. The available observations of the
cracks and crack volume variation in the clayey vadose zone give strong
qualitative experimental evidence in favor of the feasibility of the model.