Numerical studies of the interplanetary "multiple magnetic clouds (Multi-MC)"
are performed by a 2.5-dimensional ideal magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) model in the
heliospheric meridional plane. Both slow MC1 and fast MC2 are initially emerged
along the heliospheric equator, one after another with different time interval.
The coupling of two MCs could be considered as the comprehensive interaction
between two systems, each comprising of an MC body and its driven shock. The
MC2-driven shock and MC2 body are successively involved into interaction with
MC1 body. The momentum is transferred from MC2 to MC1. After the passage of
MC2-driven shock front, magnetic field lines in MC1 medium previously
compressed by MC2-driven shock are prevented from being restored by the MC2
body pushing. MC1 body undergoes the most violent compression from the ambient
solar wind ahead, continuous penetration of MC2-driven shock through MC1 body,
and persistent pushing of MC2 body at MC1 tail boundary. As the evolution
proceeds, the MC1 body suffers from larger and larger compression, and its
original vulnerable magnetic elasticity becomes stiffer and stiffer. So there
exists a maximum compressibility of Multi-MC when the accumulated elasticity
can balance the external compression. With respect to Multi-MC
geoeffectiveness, the evolution stage is a dominant factor, whereas the
collision intensity is a subordinate one. The magnetic elasticity, magnetic
helicity of each MC, and compression between each other are the key physical
factors for the formation, propagation, evolution, and resulting
geoeffectiveness of interplanetary Multi-MC.