On the base of the solar magnetic field measurements obtained in Stanford in
1976--2003 the properties of the cyclic evolution of the large-scale magnetic
field are investigated. Some regularities are found in longitudinal and
latitudinal evolution of the magnetic field in cycles 21, 22 and 23. The cyclic
development of the large-scale magnetic field can be divided into two main
phases. The phase I, which includes a period approximately from two years
before and until three years after the maximum of the solar cycle, is studied
in detail. It is found that before the reversal of the large-scale magnetic
field the neutral line of the magnetic field in antipodal longitudinal
intervals shifts from the equator to opposite directions in cycles 21 and 22,
but not in cycle 23. During the sign reversal of the large-scale magnetic field
in cycles 21 and 22 in the antipodal longitudinal intervals the magnetic field
of opposite polarity is observed in all latitudes, thereby forming an
equatorial dipole. After the magnetic field reversal a longitudinal oscillation
of the magnetic neutral line with regard to the equator takes place, which has
a period about 2 years and damps to the minimum of the 11-year cycle. The
intervening longitudinal intervals of the large-scale magnetic field correspond
to positions of the active longitudes of sunspot activity, thus indicating a
close connection of the large-scale and the local magnetic fields. In evolution
of the large-scale magnetic field a periodicity with period $1.23\pm0.16$ year
is revealed, which is close to the period found by helioseismological methods
in variations of the solar rotation near the tachocline.