Quasi-phase matched direct laser acceleration (DLA) of electrons can be
realized with guided, radially polarized laser pulses in density-modulated
plasma waveguides. A 3-D particle-in-cell model has been developed to describe
the interactions among the laser field, injected electrons, and the background
plasma in the DLA process. Simulations have been conducted to study the scheme
in which seed electron bunches with moderate energies are injected into a
plasma waveguide and the DLA is performed by use of relatively low-power (0.5-2
TW) laser pulses. Selected bunch injection delays with respect to the laser
pulse, bunch lengths, and bunch transverse sizes have been studied in a series
of simulations of DLA in a plasma waveguide. The results show that the
injection delay is important for controlling the final transverse properties of
short electron bunches, but it also affects the final energy gain. With a long
injected bunch length, the enhanced ion-focusing force helps to collimate the
electrons and a relatively small final emittance can be obtained. DLA
efficiency is reduced when a bunch with a greater transverse size is injected;
in addition, micro-bunching is clearly observed due to the focusing and
defocusing of electrons by the radially directed Lorentz force. DLA should be
performed with a moderate laser power to maintain favorable bunch transverse
properties, while the waveguide length can be extended to obtain a higher
maximum energy gain, with the commensurate increase of laser pulse duration and
energy.