We have performed an absorption-line survey of outflowing gas in 78
starburst-dominated, infrared-luminous galaxies. This is the largest study of
superwinds at z < 3. Superwinds are found in almost all infrared-luminous
galaxies, and changes in detection rate with SFR--winds are found twice as
often in ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) as in less-luminous
galaxies--reflect different wind geometries. The maximum velocities we measure
are 600 km/s, though most of the outflowing gas has lower velocities (100-200
km/s). (One galaxy has velocities exceeding 1000 km/s.) Velocities in LINERs
are higher than in HII galaxies, and outflowing ionized gas often has higher
velocities than the neutral gas. Wind properties (velocity, mass, momentum, and
energy) scale with galaxy properties (SFR, luminosity, and galaxy mass),
consistent with ram-pressure driving of the wind. Wind properties increase
strongly with increasing galactic mass, contrary to expectation. These
correlations flatten at high SFR (> 10-100 M_sun/yr), luminosities, and masses.
This saturation is due to a lack of gas remaining in the wind's path, a common
neutral gas terminal velocity, and/or a decrease in the efficiency of
thermalization of the supernovae energy. It means that mass entrainment
efficiency, rather than remaining constant, declines in galaxies with SFR > 10
M_sun/yr and M_K < -24. Half of our sample consists of ULIRGs, which host as
much as half of the star formation in the universe at z > 1. The powerful,
ubiquitous winds we observe in these galaxies imply that superwinds in massive
galaxies at redshifts above unity play an important role in the evolution of
galaxies and the intergalactic medium.