(abridged) Results from kinematic solar dynamo models employing alpha-effect
and turbulent pumping from local convection calculations are presented. We
estimate the magnitude of these effects to be around 2-3 m/s. The rotation
profile of the Sun as obtained from helioseismology is applied. We obtain an
estimate of the ratio of the two induction effects, C_alpha/C_Omega \approx
10^-3, which we keep fixed in all models. We also include a one-cell meridional
circulation pattern having a magnitude of 10-20 m/s near the surface and 1-2
m/s at the bottom of the convection zone. The model essentially represents a
distributed turbulent dynamo, as the alpha-effect is nonzero throughout the
convection zone, although it concentrates near the bottom of the convection
zone obtaining a maximum around 30 degrees of latitude. Turbulent pumping of
the mean fields is predominantly down- and equatorward. We find that, when all
these effects are included in the model, it is possible to correctly reproduce
many features of the solar activity cycle, namely the correct equatorward
migration at low latitudes and the polar branch at high latitudes, and the
observed negative sign of B_r B_phi. Although the activity clearly shifts
towards the equator in comparison to previous models due to the combined action
of the alpha-effect peaking at midlatitudes, meridional circulation and
latitudinal pumping, most of the activity still occurs at too high latitudes
(between 5-60 degrees). Other problems include the relatively narrow parameter
space within which the preferred solution is dipolar (A0), and the somewhat too
short cycle lengths of the solar-type solutions. The role of the surface shear
layer is found to be important only in the case where the alpha-effect has an
appreciable magnitude near the surface.