In this paper we continue our theoretical studies on addressing what are the
possible consequences of magnetic helicity accumulation in the solar corona.
Our previous studies suggest that coronal mass ejections (CMEs) are natural
products of coronal evolution as a consequence of magnetic helicity
accumulation and the triggering of CMEs by surface processes such as flux
emergence also have their origin in magnetic helicity accumulation. Here we use
the same mathematical approach to study the magnetic helicity of axisymmetric
power-law force-free fields, but focus on a family whose surface flux
distributions are defined by self-similar force-free fields. The
semi-analytical solutions of the axisymmetric self-similar force-free fields
enable us to discuss the properties of force-free fields possessing a huge
amount of accumulated magnetic helicity. Our study suggests that there may be
an absolute upper bound on the total magnetic helicity of all bipolar
axisymmetric force-free fields. And with the increase of accumulated magnetic
helicity, the force-free field approaches being fully opened up, with
Parker-spiral-like structures present around a current-sheet layer as evidence
of magnetic helicity in the interplanetary space. It is also found that among
the axisymmetric force-free fields having the same boundary flux distribution,
the one that is self-similar is the one possessing the maximum amount of total
magnetic helicity. This possibly gives a physical reason why self-similar
fields are often found in astrophysical bodies, where magnetic helicity
accumulation is presumably also taking place.