We present the first general bounds on the mixing time of the Markov chain
associated to the logit dynamics for wide classes of strategic games. The logit
dynamics with inverse noise beta describes the behavior of a complex system
whose individual components act selfishly and keep responding according to some
partial ("noisy") knowledge of the system, where the capacity of the agent to
know the system and compute her best move is measured by the inverse of the
parameter beta.
  In particular, we prove nearly tight bounds for potential games and games
with dominant strategies. Our results show that, for potential games, the
mixing time is upper and lower bounded by an exponential in the inverse of the
noise and in the maximum potential difference. Instead, for games with dominant
strategies, the mixing time cannot grow arbitrarily with the inverse of the
noise.
  Finally, we refine our analysis for a subclass of potential games called
graphical coordination games, a class of games that have been previously
studied in Physics and, more recently, in Computer Science in the context of
diffusion of new technologies. We give evidence that the mixing time of the
logit dynamics for these games strongly depends on the structure of the
underlying graph. We prove that the mixing time of the logit dynamics for these
games can be upper bounded by a function that is exponential in the cutwidth of
the underlying graph and in the inverse of noise. Moreover, we consider two
specific and popular network topologies, the clique and the ring. For games
played on a clique we prove an almost matching lower bound on the mixing time
of the logit dynamics that is exponential in the inverse of the noise and in
the maximum potential difference, while for games played on a ring we prove
that the time of convergence of the logit dynamics to its stationary
distribution is significantly shorter.