To understand the phenomenon of longevity in biological world, the
relationship between the potential of longevity of an organism and its
structural complexity is analyzed. I. Potential of longevity is the maximum
longevity of a species if the individuals live in an ideal environment.
Longevity of an organism includes two parts: the time for development (mature
time) and the time for structure-maintenance (maintaining time). II. The mature
time for an organism depends on its structural complexity. The maintaining time
for an organism is related to two factors, the degree of damage-exposure and
the potential of functionality for structure-maintenance. Potential of
functionality include two parts: the capacity of basic functionality and the
potential of functional compensation. The capacity of basic functionality is
built in the structural complexity of the organism. However, the structural
complexity and the functionality of an organism will be reduced gradually with
age by the accumulation of Misrepairs. Functional compensation can slow down
the decline of functionality during aging by two mechanisms: functional
substitution and regeneration of cells, and theses two functions are also built
in the structural complexity. The potential of longevity of an organism is
therefore hidden in its structural complexity, which is determined by the gene
configuration. III. An animal has limited longevity because it has limited
structural complexity. Limited structural complexity and limited longevity are
essential for the survival of a species. IV. In spite having the same potential
of longevity, individuals of a species normally have different lifespans. The
lifespan of an individual is related to the degree of damage-exposure, which is
determined by the living environments and the living habits of the individual.