We present a composite spectrum of 60 long duration gamma-ray burst (GRB)
afterglows with redshifts in the range 0.35<z<6.7 observed with low resolution
optical spectra. The composite spectrum covers the wavelength range 700-6600 A
in the rest frame and has a mean signal-to-noise ratio of 150 per 1 A pixel and
reaches a maximum of ~300 in the range 2500-3500 A. Equivalent widths are
measured from metal absorption lines from the Lya line to ~5200 A, and
associated metal and hydrogen lines are identified between the Lyman break and
Lya line. The average transmission within the Lyman forest is consistent with
that found along quasar lines of sight. We find a temporal variation in fine
structure lines when dividing the sample into bursts observed within 2 hours
from their trigger and those observed later. Other lines in the predominantly
neutral gas show variations too, but this is most likely a random effect caused
by weighting of individual strong absorption lines and which mimics a temporal
variation. Bursts characterized with high or low prompt GRB energy release
produce afterglows with similar absorption line strengths, and likewise for
bursts with bright or faint optical afterglows. Bursts defined as dark from
their optical to X-ray spectral index have stronger absorption lines relative
to the optically bright bursts. The composite spectrum has strong CaII and MgII
absorption lines as commonly found in dusty galaxies, however, we find no
evidence for dust or a significant molecular content based on the non-detection
of diffuse interstellar bands. Compared to starburst galaxy spectra, the GRB
composite has much stronger fine structure lines, while metal absorption lines
are weaker.