Low-temperature electronic conductance in nanocontacts, scanning tunneling
microscopy (STM), and metal break junctions involving magnetic atoms or
molecules is a growing area with important unsolved theoretical problems. While
the detailed relationship between contact geometry and electronic structure
requires a quantitative ab initio approach such as density functional theory
(DFT), the Kondo many-body effects ensuing from the coupling of the impurity
spin with metal electrons are most properly addressed by formulating a
generalized Anderson impurity model to be solved with, for example, the
numerical renormalization group (NRG) method. Since there is at present no
seamless scheme that can accurately carry out that program, we have in recent
years designed a systematic method for semiquantitatively joining DFT and NRG.
We apply this DFT-NRG scheme to the ideal conductance of single wall (4,4) and
(8,8) nanotubes with magnetic adatoms (Co and Fe), both inside and outside the
nanotube, and with a single carbon atom vacancy. A rich scenario emerges, with
Kondo temperatures generally in the Kelvin range, and conductance anomalies
ranging from a single channel maximum to destructive Fano interference with
cancellation of two channels out of the total four. The configuration yielding
the highest Kondo temperature (tens of Kelvins) and a measurable zero-bias
anomaly is that of a Co or Fe impurity inside the narrowest nanotube. The
single atom vacancy has a spin, but a very low Kondo temperature is predicted.
The geometric, electronic, and symmetry factors influencing this variability
are all accessible, which makes this approach methodologically instructive and
highlights many delicate and difficult points in the first-principles modeling
of the Kondo effect in nanocontacts.