For normal canonical models with $X \sim N_p(\theta, \sigma^{2} I_{p}), \;\;
S^{2} \sim \sigma^{2}\chi^{2}_{k}, \;{independent}$, we consider the problem of
estimating $\theta$ under scale invariant squared error loss $\frac{\|d-\theta
\|^{2}}{\sigma^{2}}$, when it is known that the signal-to-noise ratio
$\frac{\|\theta\|}{\sigma}$ is bounded above by $m$. Risk analysis is achieved
by making use of a conditional risk decomposition and we obtain in particular
sufficient conditions for an estimator to dominate either the unbiased
estimator $\delta_{UB}(X)=X$, or the maximum likelihood estimator
$\delta_{\hbox{mle}}(X,S^2)$, or both of these benchmark procedures. The given
developments bring into play the pivotal role of the boundary Bayes estimator
$\delta_{BU}$ associated with a prior on $(\theta,\sigma)$ such that
$\theta|\sigma$ is uniformly distributed on the (boundary) sphere of radius $m$
and a non-informative $\frac{1}{\sigma}$ prior measure is placed marginally on
$\sigma$. With a series of technical results related to $\delta_{BU}$; which
relate to particular ratios of confluent hypergeometric functions; we show
that, whenever $m \leq \sqrt{p}$ and $p \geq 2$, $\delta_{BU}$ dominates both
$\delta_{UB}$ and $\delta_{\hbox{mle}}$. The finding can be viewed as both a
multivariate extension of $p=1$ result due to Kubokawa (2005) and a unknown
variance extension of a similar dominance finding due to Marchand and Perron
(2001). Various other dominance results are obtained, illustrations are
provided and commented upon. In particular, for $m \leq \sqrt{\frac{p}{2}}$, a
wide class of Bayes estimators, which include priors where $\theta|\sigma$ is
uniformly distributed on the ball of radius $m$, are shown to dominate
$\delta_{UB}$.