We present and discuss highly accurate photometry obtained through medium
Stromgren y,b bands and narrow [OIII], Halpha bands covering 500 days of the
evolution of Nova Del 2013 since its maximum brightness. This is by far the
most complete study of any nova observed in such photometric systems. The nova
behaviour in these photometric bands is very different from that observed with
the more conventional broad bands like UBVRI or ugriz, providing unique
information about extent and ionization of the ejecta, the onset of critical
phases like the transition between optically thick and thin conditions, and
re-ionization by the central super-soft X-ray source. The actual transmission
profiles of the y, b, [OIII] and Halpha photometric filters have been
accurately measured at different epochs and different illumination angles, to
evaluate in detail their performance under exact operating conditions. The
extreme smoothness of both the Halpha and [OIII] lightcurves argues for absence
of large and abrupt discontinuities in the ejecta of Nova Del 2013. Should they
exist, glitches in the lightcurves would have appeared when the ionization
and/or recombination fronts overtook them. During the period of recorded very
large variability (up to 100x over a single day) in the super-soft X-ray
emission (from day +69 to +86 past V maximum), no glitch in excess of 1% was
observed in the optical photometry, either in the continuum (Stromgren y) or in
the lines ([OIII] and Halpha filters), or in a combination of the two
(Stromgren b, Johnson B and V). Considering that the recombination time scale
in the ejecta was one week at that time, this excludes global changes of the
white dwarf as the source of the X-ray variability and supports instead clumpy
ejecta passing through the line of sight to us as its origin.