In this work, detailed numerical analysis of the near-elliptic core
index-guiding triangular-lattice and square-lattice photonic crystal fiber
(PCFs) are reported for birefringence, single mode, cut-off behavior, group
velocity dispersion and effective area properties. For the same relative values
of d/P, triangular-lattice PCFs show higher birefringence whereas the
square-lattice PCFs show a wider range of single-mode operation. Square-lattice
PCF was found to be endlessly single-mode for higher air-filling fraction
(d/P). Smaller lengths of triangular-lattice PCF are required for dispersion
compensation whereas PCFs with square-lattice with nearer relative dispersion
slope (RDS) can better compensate the broadband dispersion. Square-lattice PCFs
show ZDW red-shifted, making it preferable for mid-IR supercontinuum generation
(SCG) with highly non-linear chalcogenide material. Square-lattice PCFs show
higher dispersion slope that leads to compression of the broadband, thus
accumulating more power in the pulse. On the other hand, triangular-lattice PCF
with flat dispersion profile can generate broader SCG. Square-lattice PCF with
low Group Velocity Dispersion (GVD) at the anomalous dispersion corresponds to
higher dispersion length and higher degree of solitonic interaction. The
effective area of square-lattice PCF is always greater than its
triangular-lattice counterpart making it better suited for high power
applications. Smaller length of symmetric-core PCF for dispersion compensation,
while broadband dispersion compensation can be better performed with
asymmetric-core PCF. Mid-Infrared SCG can be better performed with
asymmetric-core PCF with compressed and high power pulse, while wider range of
SCG can be performed with symmetric core PCF. Thus, this study will be
extremely useful for realizing fiber towards a custom application around these
characteristics.