A broad jet was observed in a weak magnetic field area at the edge of active
region NOAA 11106. The peculiar shape and magnetic environment of the broad jet
raised the question of whether it was created by the same physical processes of
previously studied jets with reconnection occurring high in the corona. We
carried out a multi-wavelength analysis using the EUV images from the
Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) and magnetic fields from the Helioseismic
and Magnetic Imager (HMI) both on-board the SDO satellite. The jet consisted of
many different threads that expanded in around 10 minutes to about 100 Mm in
length, with the bright features in later threads moving faster than in the
early ones, reaching a maximum speed of about 200 km s^{-1}. Time-slice
analysis revealed a striped pattern of dark and bright strands propagating
along the jet, along with apparent damped oscillations across the jet. This is
suggestive of a (un)twisting motion in the jet, possibly an Alfven wave. A
topological analysis of an extrapolated field was performed. Bald patches in
field lines, low-altitude flux ropes, diverging flow patterns, and a null point
were identified at the basis of the jet. Unlike classical lambda or
Eiffel-tower shaped jets that appear to be caused by reconnection in current
sheets containing null points, reconnection in regions containing bald patches
seems to be crucial in triggering the present jet. There is no observational
evidence that the flux ropes detected in the topological analysis were actually
being ejected themselves, as occurs in the violent phase of blowout jets;
instead, the jet itself may have gained the twist of the flux rope(s) through
reconnection. This event may represent a class of jets different from the
classical quiescent or blowout jets, but to reach that conclusion, more
observational and theoretical work is necessary.