Computer has been incorporated into day to day activities of almost every
field of human endeavour, offices to different shops. Therefore many people are
now working with computer for longer hours of time. There is no doubt that this
incorporation of computer has helped users a lot but it also brings problems to
the users. One of the problems is Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI). Five hundred
and thirty one (531) questionnaires were personally administered to different
categories of people that use computer in various works of life, ranging from
banking sector, civil service, educational sector, health sector to private
sector. The distribution cut across different professions. A statistical
analysis was conducted on the data obtained using frequency distribution,
Pearson Correlation and Linear Regression. The result obtained showed that
94.3% of the respondents suffered pain from one or more parts of the body.
86.8% of the respondents suffered from eyestrain, 63.9% suffered from low back
pain, 67.4% with wrist pain, 64.7% finger pain while the least suffered pain
was foot pain which only 19% responded positively to it. There are significant
relationships between duration of computer usage, type of chair used, type and
size of monitor used and the incidence of RSI. RSI modeled was formulated
through linear regression which showed that a unit change in computer will
result in corresponding 1.76 unit increases in RSI and a unit change in
ergonomic deficiency will also result in corresponding 0.66 increases in RSI.
The existence of RSI was established and it was discovered that the more time
spent on the computer system, the more the proximity of having strain or pain
in one or more part(s) of the body.