By performing density functional theory (DFT) +$U$ calculations, we
systematically study the electronic, mechanical, tensile, and thermodynamic
properties of AmO$_{2}$. The experimentally observed antiferromagnetic
insulating feature [J. Chem. Phys. 63, 3174 (1975)] is successfully reproduced.
It is found that the chemical bonding character in AmO$_{2}$ is similar to that
in PuO$_{2}$, with smaller charge transfer and stronger covalent interactions
between americium and oxygen atoms. The valence band maximum and conduction
band minimum are contributed by 2$p-5f$ hybridized and 5$f$ electronic states
respectively. The elastic constants and various moduli are calculated, which
show that AmO$_{2}$ is less stable against shear forces than PuO$_{2}$. The
stress-strain relationship of AmO$_{2}$ is examined along the three low-index
directions by employing the first-principles computational tensile test method.
It is found that similar to PuO$_{2}$, the [100] and [111] directions are the
strongest and weakest tensile directions, respectively, but the theoretical
tensile strengths of AmO$_{2}$ are smaller than those of PuO$_{2}$. The phonon
dispersion curves of AmO$_{2}$ are calculated and the heat capacities as well
as lattice expansion curve are subsequently determined. The lattice thermal
conductance of AmO$_{2}$ is further evaluated and compared with attainable
experiments. Our present work integrally reveals various physical properties of
AmO$_{2}$ and can be referenced for technological applications of AmO$_{2}$
based materials.