Tapered metallic grooves have been shown to support plasmons --
electromagnetically coupled oscillations of free electrons at metal-dielectric
interfaces -- across a variety of configurations and V-like profiles. Such
plasmons may be divided into two categories: gap-surface plasmons (GSPs) that
are confined laterally between the tapered groove sidewalls and propagate
either along the groove axis or normal to the planar surface, and channelled
plasmon polaritons (CPPs) that occupy the tapered groove profile and propagate
exclusively along the groove axis. Both GSPs and CPPs exhibit an assortment of
unique properties that are highly suited to a broad range of cutting-edge
nanoplasmonic technologies, including ultracompact photonic circuits,
quantum-optics components, enhanced lab-on-a-chip devices, efficient
light-absorbing surfaces and advanced optical filters, while additionally
affording a niche platform to explore the fundamental science of plasmon
excitations and their interactions. In this Review, we provide a research
status update of plasmons in tapered grooves, starting with a presentation of
the theory and important features of GSPs and CPPs, and follow with an overview
of the broad range of applications they enable or improve. We cover the
techniques that can fabricate tapered groove structures, in particular
highlighting wafer-scale production methods, and outline the various photon-
and electron-based approaches that can be used to launch and study GSPs and
CPPs. We conclude with a discussion of the challenges that remain for further
developing plasmonic tapered-groove devices, and consider the future directions
offered by this select yet potentially far-reaching topic area.