Thermonuclear explosions may arise in binaries in which a CO white dwarf (WD)
accretes He from a companion. If the accretion rate allows a sufficiently large
mass of He to accumulate prior to ignition of nuclear burning, the He surface
layer may detonate, giving rise to an astrophysical transient. Detonation of
the He layer generates shock waves that propagate into the underlying CO WD.
This might directly ignite a detonation at the edge of the CO WD or compress
the core of the WD sufficiently to trigger a CO detonation near the centre. If
either ignition mechanism works, the two detonations can release sufficient
energy to completely unbind the WD. Here we extend our 2D studies of this
double-detonation model to low-mass CO WDs. We investigate the feasibility of
triggering a secondary core detonation by shock convergence in low-mass CO WDs
and the observable consequences of such a detonation. Our results suggest that
core detonation is probable, even for the lowest CO core masses realized in
nature. We compute spectra and light curves for models in which either an
edge-lit or compression-triggered CO detonation is assumed to occur and compare
these to models in which no CO detonation was allowed to occur. If significant
shock compression of the CO WD occurs prior to detonation, explosion of the CO
WD can produce a sufficiently large mass of radioactive iron-group nuclei to
affect the light curves. In particular, this can lead to relatively slow
post-maximum decline. If the secondary detonation is edge-lit, however, the CO
WD explosion primarily yields intermediate-mass elements that affect the
observables more subtly. In this case, NIR observations and detailed
spectroscopic analysis would be needed to determine whether core detonation
occurred. We comment on the implications of our results for understanding
peculiar astrophysical transients including SN 2002bj, SN 2010X and SN 2005E.