In $\Lambda$CDM cosmology, structure formation is halted shortly after dark
energy dominates the mass/energy budget of the Universe. A manifestation of
this effect is that in such a cosmology the turnaround radius --the
non-expanding mass shell furthest away from the center of a structure-- has an
upper bound. Recently, a new, local, test for the existence of dark energy in
the form of a cosmological constant was proposed based on this turnaround
bound. In this work, we build upon this proposal, and we further examine the
advantages of studying the end of structure formation at the turnaround scale.
Using the Press-Schechter formalism, we calculate the mass function of
turnaround structures at various cosmic epochs, including the present one and
an infinite time into the future. We find that structures at turnaround scales
have in practice stopped forming already today, and consequently, the
turnaround radii of structures must be very close to the maximum predicted
value. We find that a mass scale of $m \sim 10^{13} M_{\odot}$ separates
turnaround structures with qualitative different cosmological evolution:
smaller structures are no longer readjusting their mass distribution inside the
turnaround scale, they asymptotically approach their ultimate abundance from
higher values, and they are common enough to have, at some epoch, experienced
major mergers with structures of comparable mass; larger structures exhibit the
opposite behavior. We argue that this mass scale is optimal for searches of
possible violations of the maximum turnaround radius limit through
high-precision determinations of masses and, independently, turnaround radii.