The association of Type Ic SNe with long-duration GRBs is well established.
We endeavor, through accurate ground-based observational campaigns, to
characterize these SNe at increasingly high redshifts. We obtained a series of
optical photometric and spectroscopic observations of the Type Ic SN2012bz
associated with the Swift long-duration GRB120422A (z=0.283) using the 3.6-m
TNG and the 8.2-m VLT telescopes. The peak times of the light curves of
SN2012bz in various optical filters differ, with the B-band and i'-band light
curves reaching maximum at ~9 and ~23 rest-frame days, respectively. The
bolometric light curve has been derived from individual bands photometric
measurements, but no correction for the unknown contribution in the
near-infrared (probably around 10-15%) has been applied. Therefore, the present
light curve should be considered as a lower limit to the actual UV-optical-IR
bolometric light curve. This pseudo-bolometric curve reaches its maximum (Mbol
= -18.56 +/- 0.06) at 13 +/- 1 rest-frame days; it is similar in shape and
luminosity to the bolometric light curves of the SNe associated with z<0.2 GRBs
and more luminous than those of SNe associated with XRFs. A comparison with the
model generated for the bolometric light curve of SN2003dh suggests that
SN2012bz produced only about 15% less 56Ni than SN2003dh, about 0.35 Msol.
Similarly the VLT spectra of SN2012bz, after correction for Galactic extinction
and for the contribution of the host galaxy, suggest comparable explosion
parameters with those observed in SN2003dh (EK~3.5 x 10^52 erg, Mej~7 Msol) and
a similar progenitor mass (~25-40 Msol). GRB120422A is consistent with the
Epeak-Eiso and the EX,iso-Egamma,iso-E_peak relations. GRB120422A/SN2012bz
shows the GRB-SN connection at the highest redshift so far accurately monitored
both photometrically and spectroscopically.