Several researchers have experimentally shown that substantial improvements
can be obtained in difficult pattern recognition problems by combining or
integrating the outputs of multiple classifiers. This chapter provides an
analytical framework to quantify the improvements in classification results due
to combining. The results apply to both linear combiners and order statistics
combiners. We first show that to a first order approximation, the error rate
obtained over and above the Bayes error rate, is directly proportional to the
variance of the actual decision boundaries around the Bayes optimum boundary.
Combining classifiers in output space reduces this variance, and hence reduces
the "added" error. If N unbiased classifiers are combined by simple averaging,
the added error rate can be reduced by a factor of N if the individual errors
in approximating the decision boundaries are uncorrelated. Expressions are then
derived for linear combiners which are biased or correlated, and the effect of
output correlations on ensemble performance is quantified. For order statistics
based non-linear combiners, we derive expressions that indicate how much the
median, the maximum and in general the ith order statistic can improve
classifier performance. The analysis presented here facilitates the
understanding of the relationships among error rates, classifier boundary
distributions, and combining in output space. Experimental results on several
public domain data sets are provided to illustrate the benefits of combining
and to support the analytical results.