We present the distinctive collider signatures of No-Scale F-SU(5), a highly
efficient and phenomenologically favored model built on the tripodal
foundations of the F-lipped SU(5) X U(1)_X Grand Unified Theory, extra F-theory
derived TeV scale vector-like particle multiplets, and the dynamic high scale
boundary conditions of No-Scale Supergravity. The identifying features of the
supersymmetric spectrum are a light stop and gluino, with both sparticles much
lighter than all the additional squarks. This unique mass hierarchy leads to
the enhanced production of events with an ultra-high multiplicity of hadronic
jets which should be clearly visible to the \sqrt{s} = 7 TeV LHC at only 1
inverse fb of integrated luminosity. We suggest a modest alternative event
cutting procedure based around a reduced minimal transverse momentum per jet
(p_T > 20 GeV), and an increased minimal multiplicity (>= 9) of distinct jets
per subscribed event. These criteria optimize the F-SU(5) signal to background
ratio, while readily suppressing the contribution of all Standard Model
processes, allowing moreover a clear differentiation from competing models of
new physics, most notably minimal supergravity. The characteristic No-Scale
signature is quite stable across the viable parameter space, modulo an overall
rescaling of the mass spectrum; Detection by the LHC of the ultra-high jet
signal would constitute a suggestive evocation of the intimately linked stringy
origins of F-SU(5), and could possibly provide a glimpse into the underlying
structure of the fundamental string moduli.