We examine the Kepler light curves of V1504 Cyg and V344 Lyr, encompassing
~736 d at 1 min cadence. During this span each system exhibited ~64-65
outbursts, including six superoutbursts. We find that, in both systems, the
normal outbursts between two superoutbursts increase in duration over time by a
factor ~1.2-1.9, and then reset to a small value after the following
superoutburst. In both systems the trend of quiescent intervals between normal
outbursts is to increase to a local maximum about half way through the
supercycle - the interval from one superoutburst to the next - and then to
decrease back to a small value by the time of the next superoutburst. This is
inconsistent with Osaki's thermal-tidal model, which predicts a monotonic
increase in the quiescent intervals between normal outbursts during a
supercycle. Also, most of the normal outbursts have an asymmetric,
fast-rise/slower-decline shape, consistent with outbursts triggered at large
radii. The exponential rate of decay of the plateau phase of the superoutbursts
is 8 d/mag for V1504 Cyg and 12 d/mag for V344 Lyr. This time scale gives a
direct measure of the viscous time scale in the outer accretion disk given the
expectation that the entire disk is in the hot, viscous state during
superoutburst. The resulting constraint on the Shakura-Sunyaev parameter,
alpha_{hot} ~ 0.1, is consistent with the value inferred from the fast dwarf
nova decays. By looking at the slow decay rate for superoutbursts, which occur
in systems below the period gap, in combination with the slow decay rate in one
long outburst above the period gap (in U Gem), we infer a steep dependence of
the decay rate on orbital period for long outbursts. This implies a steep
dependence of alpha_{cold} on orbital period, consistent with tidal torquing as
being the dominant angular momentum transport mechanism in quiescent disks in
interacting binary systems.