The Gutenberg-Richter power law distribution of earthquake sizes is one of
the most famous example illustrating self-similarity. It is well-known that the
Gutenberg-Richter distribution has to be modified for large seismic moments,
due to energy conservation and geometrical reasons. Several models have been
proposed, either in terms of a second power law with a larger b-value beyond a
cross-over magnitude, or based on a ``hard'' magnitude cut-off or a ``soft''
magnitude cut-off using an exponential taper. Since the large scale tectonic
deformation is dominated by the very largest earthquakes and since their impact
on loss of life and properties is huge, it is of great importance to constrain
as much as possible the shape of their distribution. We present a simple and
powerful probabilistic theoretical approach that shows that the Gamma
distribution is the best model, under the two hypothesis that the
Gutenberg-Richter power law distribution holds in absence of any condition
(condition of criticality) and that one or several constraints are imposed,
either based on conservation laws or on the nature of the observations
themselves. The selection of the Gamma distribution does not depend on the
specific nature of the constraint. We illustrate the approach with two
constraints, the existence of a finite moment release rate and the observation
of the size of a maximum earthquake in a finite catalog. Our predicted ``soft''
maximum magnitudes compare favorably with those obtained by Kagan [1997] for
the Flinn-Engdahl regionalization of subduction zones, collision zones and
mid-ocean ridges.