WiMAX is Wireless Interoperability for Microwave Access has emerged as a
promising solution for transmission of higher data rates for fixed and mobile
applications. IEEE 802.16d and e are the standards proposed. To attain higher
data rates the Multi Carrier System with Multiple Input and Multiple Output
MIMO is incorporated in the WiMAX. And all these sub carriers are considered to
be orthogonal to each other. As the number of sub carriers is increased there
is no guarantee of sustained orthogonality, i.e. at some point the carriers are
not independent to each other, and hence where the orthogonality can be loosed
which leads to interference and also owing to the synchronization between
transmitter and receiver local oscillator, it causes interference known as
Inter Carrier Interference (ICI).In this scheme at the transmitter side the
modulated data and a few predefined pilot symbols are mapped onto the non
neighboring sub carriers with weighting coefficients of +1 and -1. With the aid
of pilot symbols the frequency offset is exactly estimated by using Maximum
Likelihood Estimation MLE and hence can be minimized. At demodulation stage the
received signals are linearly combined along with their weighted oefficients
and pilot symbols, called as Pilot Aided Self Cancellation Method PASCS. The
simulations are carried out on Stanford University Interim (SUI)channels. The
simulation results shows that by incorporating this method into WiMAX systems
it performs better when the Line Of Sight (LOS) component is present in the
transmission and also it improves the Bit Error Rate (BER) and Carrier to
Interference Ratio (CIR). The CIR can be improved 20 dB. In this paper the
effectiveness of PASCS scheme is compared with the Self Cancellation Method
(SCM). It provides accurate estimation of frequency offset and when residual
CFO is less significant the ICI can be diminished successfully.