We study properties of early radio emission from stripped-envelope supernovae
(those of type IIb/Ib/Ic). We suggest there is a sub-class of stripped-envelope
supernovae in their radio properties, including optically well-studied type Ic
supernovae (SNe Ic) 2002ap and 2007gr, showing a rapid rise to a radio peak
within ~ 10 days reaching to a low luminosity (at least an order of magnitude
fainter than a majority of SNe IIb/Ib/Ic). They show a decline after the peak
shallower than others while the spectral index is similar. We show that all
these properties are naturally explained if the circumstellar material (CSM)
density is low and therefore the forward shock is expanding into the CSM
without deceleration. Since the forward shock velocity in this situation, as
estimated from the radio properties, still records the maximum velocity of the
SN ejecta following the shock breakout, observing these SNe in radio
wavelengths provides new diagnostics on natures of the breakout and progenitor
which otherwise requires a quite rapid follow-up in other wavelengths. The
inferred post-shock breakout velocities of SNe Ic 2002ap and 2007gr are
sub-relativistic, ~0.3c. These are higher than inferred for SN II 1987A, in
line with suggested compact progenitors. However, these are lower than expected
for a Wolf-Rayet (WR) progenitor. It may reflect a still-unresolved nature of
the progenitors just before the explosion, and we suggest that the WR
progenitor envelopes might have been inflated which could quickly reduce the
maximum ejecta velocity from the initial shock breakout velocity.