The embedder and the detector (or decoder) are the two most important
components of the digital watermarking systems. Thus in this work, we discuss
how to design a better embedder and detector (or decoder). I first give a
summary of the prospective applications of watermarking technology and major
watermarking schemes in the literature. My review on the literature closely
centers upon how the side information is exploited at both embedders and
detectors. In Chapter 3, I explore the optimum detector or decoder according to
a particular probability distribution of the host signals. We found that the
performance of both multiplicative and additive spread spectrum schemes depends
on the shape parameter of the host signals. For spread spectrum schemes, the
performance of the detector or the decoder is reduced by the host interference.
Thus I present a new host-interference rejection technique for the
multiplicative spread spectrum schemes. Its embedding rule is tailored to the
optimum detection or decoding rule. Though the host interference rejection
schemes enjoy a big performance gain over the traditional spread spectrum
schemes, their drawbacks that it is difficult for them to be implemented with
the perceptual analysis to achieve the maximum allowable embedding level
discourage their use in real scenarios. Thus, in the last chapters of this
work, I introduce a double-sided technique to tackle this drawback. It differs
from the host interference rejection schemes in that it utilizes but does not
reject the host interference at its embedder. The perceptual analysis can be
easily implemented in our scheme to achieve the maximum allowable level of
embedding strength.