The coalescences of binary black hole (BBH) systems, here taken to be
non-spinning, are among the most promising sources for gravitational wave (GW)
ground-based detectors, such as LIGO and Virgo. To detect the GW signals
emitted by BBHs, and measure the parameters of the source, one needs to have in
hand a bank of GW templates that are both effectual (for detection), and
accurate (for measurement). We study the effectualness and the accuracy of the
two types of parametrized banks of templates that are directly defined in the
frequency-domain by means of closed-form expressions, namely 'post-Newtonian'
(PN) and 'phenomenological' models. In absence of knowledge of the exact
waveforms, our study assumes as fiducial, target waveforms the ones generated
by the most accurate version of the effective one body (EOB) formalism. We find
that, for initial GW detectors the use, at each point of parameter space, of
the best closed-form template (among PN and phenomenological models) leads to
an effectualness >97% over the entire mass range and >99% in an important
fraction of parameter space; however, when considering advanced detectors, both
of the closed-form frequency-domain models fail to be effectual enough in
significant domains of the two-dimensional [total mass and mass ratio]
parameter space. Moreover, we find that, both for initial and advanced
detectors, the two closed-form frequency-domain models fail to satisfy the
minimal required accuracy standard in a very large domain of the
two-dimensional parameter space. In addition, a side result of our study is the
determination, as a function of the mass ratio, of the maximum frequency at
which a frequency-domain PN waveform can be 'joined' onto a NR-calibrated EOB
waveform without undue loss of accuracy.