The possibility that the gluino is the next to the lightest supersymmetric
particle (NLSP) is discussed and it is shown that this situation arises in
nonuniversal SUGRA models within a significant part of the parameter space
compatible with all known experimental bounds. It is then shown that the gluino
NLSP (GNLSP) models lead to a compressed sfermion spectrum with the sleptons
often heavier than the squarks at least for the first two generations. The
relic density here is governed by gluino coannihilation which is responsible
for a relatively small mass splitting between the gluino and the neutralino
masses. Thus the GNLSP class of models is very predictive first because the
SUSY production cross sections at the LHC are dominated by gluino production
and second because the gluino production itself proceeds dominantly through a
single channel which allows for a direct determination of the gluino mass and
an indirect determination of the neutralino mass due to a linear relation
between these two masses which is highly constrained by coannihilation. A
detailed analysis of these models shows that the jet production and tagged
b-jets from the gluino production can be discriminated from the standard model
background with appropriate cuts. It is found that the GNLSP models can be
tested with just 10 fb$^{-1}$ of integrated luminosity and may therefore be
checked with low luminosity runs in the first data at the LHC. Thus if a GNLSP
model is realized, the LHC will turn into a gluino factory through a profuse
production of gluinos with typically only a small fraction $\lesssim 5%$ of
total SUSY events arising from other production modes over the allowed GNLSP
model parameter space.