We perform a set of cosmological simulations of structure formation in a
mixed dark matter (MDM) model. Our model is motivated by the recently
identified $3.5\,{\rm keV}$ X-ray line that can be explained by the decay of
non-resonantly produced sterile neutrinos, if they account for $10$-$60\%$ of
the dark matter in the Universe. The non-resonantly produced sterile neutrino
has sizable free-streaming length and hence behaves effectively as warm dark
matter (WDM). Assuming the rest of dark matter is composed of some stable and
cold particles, i.e. cold dark matter (CDM), we follow the coevolution of the
CDM and WDM density perturbations. Specifically, we consider the models with
the warm component fraction of $r_{\rm warm}=0.25$ and $0.5$. Our MDM model
predicts that the comoving Jeans length at the matter-radiation equality is
close to that of the thermally produced warm dark matter model with particle
mass $m_{\rm WDM}=2.4\,{\rm keV}$ but that the suppression in the fluctuation
power spectrum is weaker. We perform large $N$-body simulations to study the
structure of nonlinear dark halos in the MDM model. The abundance of
substructure is significantly reduced in the MDM model, and hence the so-called
small scale crisis is mitigated. The cumulative maximum circular velocity
function (CVF) of at least one halo in the MDM models is in good agreement with
the CVFs of the observed satellites in the Milky Way and Andromeda. We argue
that the MDM models open an interesting possibility to reconcile the reported
$3.5\,{\rm keV}$ line and the internal structure of galaxies.