We have developed a new software tool, Lensview, for modelling resolved
gravitational lens images. Based on the LensMEM algorithm, the software finds
the best fitting lens mass model and source brightness distribution using a
maximum entropy constraint. The method can be used with any point spread
function or lens model. We review the algorithm and introduce some significant
improvements. We also investigate and discuss issues associated with the
statistical uncertainties of models and model parameters and the issues of
source plane size and source pixel size.
  We test the software on simulated optical and radio data to evaluate how well
lens models can be recovered and with what accuracy. For optical data, lens
model parameters can typically be recovered with better than 1% accuracy and
the degeneracy between mass ellipticity and power law is reduced. For radio
data, we find that systematic errors associated with using processed radio
maps, rather than the visibilities, are of similar magnitude to the random
errors. Hence analysing radio data in image space is still useful and
meaningful.
  The software is applied to the optical arc HST J15433+5352 and the radio ring
MG1549+3047 using a simple elliptical isothermal lens model. For HST
J15433+5352, the Einstein radius is 0.525" +/- 0.015 which probably includes a
substantial convergence contribution from a neighbouring galaxy. For
MG1549+3047, the model has Einstein radius 1.105" +/- 0.005 and core radius
0.16" 0.03. The total mass enclosed in the critical radius is 7.06 x 10^{10}
Solar masses for our best model.