In this paper we present a new search technique for electroweakinos, the
superpartners of electroweak gauge and Higgs bosons, based on final states with
missing transverse energy, a photon, and a dilepton pair, $\ell^+\,\ell^- +
\gamma + \displaystyle{\not} E_T$. Unlike traditional electroweakino searches,
which perform best when $m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_{2,3}} -
m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_1}, m_{\widetilde{\chi}^{\pm}} - m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_1}
> m_Z$, our search favors nearly degenerate spectra; degenerate electroweakinos
typically have a larger branching ratio to photons, and the cut $m_{\ell\ell}
\ll m_Z$ effectively removes on-shell Z boson backgrounds while retaining the
signal. This feature makes our technique optimal for `well-tempered' scenarios,
where the dark matter relic abundance is achieved with inter-electroweakino
splittings of $\sim 20 - 70\,\text{GeV}$. Additionally, our strategy applies to
a wider range of scenarios where the lightest neutralinos are almost
degenerate, but only make up a subdominant component of the dark matter -- a
spectrum we dub `well-forged'. Focusing on bino-Higgsino admixtures, we present
optimal cuts and expected efficiencies for several benchmark scenarios. We find
bino-Higgsino mixtures with $m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_{2,3}} \lesssim
190\,\text{GeV}$ and $m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_{2,3}} - m_{\widetilde{\chi}^0_1}
\cong 30\,\text{GeV}$ can be uncovered after roughly $600\,\text{fb}^{-1}$ of
luminosity at the 14 TeV LHC. Scenarios with lighter states require less data
for discovery, while scenarios with heavier states or larger mass splittings
are harder to discriminate from the background and require more data. Unlike
many searches for supersymmetry, electroweakino searches are one area where the
high luminosity of the next LHC run, rather than the increased energy, is
crucial for discovery.