The interaction of TeV gamma rays from distant blazars with the extragalactic
background light produces relativistic electron-positron pair beams by the
photon-photon annihilation process. Using the linear instability analysis in
the kinetic limit, which properly accounts for the longitudinal and the small
but finite perpendicular momentum spread in the pair momentum distribution
function, the growth rate of parallel propagating electrostatic oscillations in
the intergalactic medium is calculated. Contrary to the claims of Miniati and
Elyiv (2013) we find that neither the longitudinal nor the perpendicular spread
in the relativistic pair distribution function do significantly affect the
electrostatic growth rates. The maximum kinetic growth rate for no
perpendicular spread is even about an order of magnitude greater than the
corresponding reactive maximum growth rate. The reduction factors to the
maximum growth rate due to the finite perpendicular spread in the pair
distribution function are tiny, and always less than $10^{-4}$. We confirm the
earlier conclusions by Broderick et al. (2012) and us, that the created pair
beam distribution function is quickly unstable in the unmagnetized
intergalactic medium. Therefore, there is no need to require the existence of
small intergalactic magnetic fields to scatter the produced pairs, so that the
explanation (made by several contributors) of the FERMI non-detection of the inverse
Compton scattered GeV gamma rays by a finite deflecting intergalactic magnetic
field is not necessary. In particular, the various derived lower bounds for the
intergalactic magnetic fields are invalid due to the pair beam instability
argument.