I present two-band HST STIS imaging, and WIYN spectral mapping, of ongoing
mass transfer in the interacting galaxy pair NGC 1409/10 (where NGC 1410 is the
Seyfert galaxy also catalogued as III Zw 55). Archival snapshot WFPC2 imaging
from the survey by Malkan et al. showed a dust feature stretching between the
galaxies, apparently being captured by NGC 1409. The new images allow estimates
of the mass being transferred and rate of transfer. An absorption lane
typically 0.25" (100 pc) wide with a representative optical depth tau_B = 0.2
cuts across the spiral structure of NGC 1410, crosses the 7-kpc projected space
between the nuclei, wraps in front of and, at the limits of detection, behind
NGC 1409, and becomes a denser (tau_B = 0.4) polar feature around the core of
NGC 1409. Combination of extinction data in two passbands allows a crude
three-dimensional recovery of the dust structure, supporting the front/back
geometry derived from colors and extinction estimates. The whole feature
contains of order $10^6$ solar masses in dust, implying about 2x10^7 solar
masses of gas, requiring a mass transfer rate averaging ~1 solar mass per year
unless we are particularly unlucky in viewing angle. Curiously, this
demonstrable case of mass transfer seems to be independent of the occurrence of
a Seyfert nucleus, since the Seyfert galaxy in this pair is the donor of the
material. Likewise, the recipient shows no signs of recent star formation from
incoming gas, although NGC 1410 has numerous luminous young star clusters and
widespread H-alpha emission.