We present results of a model for the energetics of electrons accelerated by
the large electric fields generated by a rotating highly magnetized neutron
star. The energy loss mechanisms we consider in our calculations include
magnetic Compton scattering of thermal x-ray photons, triplet pair production,
and curvature radiation emission. The electron acceleration mechanism is
assumed to operate only to a height above the polar cap approximately equal to
the polar cap radius. We find several interesting results. First, magnetic
Compton scattering is the dominant energy loss process when the electron
Lorentz factors are < few x10^6 for typical gamma-ray pulsar magnetic fields
and surface temperatures measured by ROSAT. The amount of energy converted to
photons by accelerated electrons ranges from ~10% to ~100% of gamma_0 mc^2
where gamma_0 is the maximum Lorentz factor an electron can attain with no
radiative losses. We also find that if B > 10^13 G and T > 3x10^6 K, the
Lorentz factors of the electrons can be limited to values < 10^3 assuming
values for the size of the neutron star thermal polar cap comparable to the
polar cap size determined by the open field lines. Such small Lorentz factors
may be capable of explaining the gamma-ray emission from PSR 1509-58 which is
observed only at energies <1 MeV. We calculated the fraction of the electron's
kinetic energy that is converted to gamma rays for the three gamma-ray pulsars
which show thermal x-ray spectra, namely Vela (60%), Geminga (5%), and PSR
1055-52 (20%).