Numerical simulations suggest that Neptune primordial co-orbitals may
outnumber the equivalent population hosted by Jupiter, yet the objects remain
elusive. Since the first discovery in 2001 just 10 minor planets have been
identified as Neptune co-orbitals. On the other hand, some simulations predict
that a negligible fraction of passing bodies are captured into the 1:1
commensurability with Neptune today. Hundreds of objects have been discovered
in the outer solar system during the various wide-field surveys carried out
during the past decade, and many of them have been classified using cuts in the
pericentre and other orbital elements. This leads to possible
misclassifications of resonant objects. Here, we explore this possibility to
uncover neglected Neptune co-orbitals. We confirm that 4 objects previously
classified as Centaurs by the MPC currently are temporary Neptune co-orbitals.
(148975) 2001 XA255 is the most dynamically unstable of the four. It appears to
be a relatively recent (50 kyr) visitor from the scattered disk in its way to
the inner solar system. (310071) 2010 KR59 is following a complex horseshoe
orbit, (316179) 2010 EN65 is in the process of switching from leading to
trailing Trojan, and 2012 GX17 is a promising trailing Trojan candidate in
urgent need of follow-up. The four objects move in highly inclined orbits and
have significant eccentricities. These dynamically hot objects are not
primordial 1:1 librators, but are captured and likely originated from beyond
Neptune.