We introduce Copernicus Complexio (COCO), a high-resolution cosmological
N-body simulation of structure formation in the $\Lambda$cdm model. COCO
follows an approximately spherical region of radius $\sim 17.4h^{-1}$Mpc, in
which the particle mass is $1.1 \times 10^5h^{-1}M_{\odot}$, embedded in a much
larger periodic cube followed at lower resolution. Thus, the resolution in the
inner volume is 60 times better than in the Millennium-II simulation. COCO
gives the dark matter halo mass function over eight orders of magnitude in halo
mass; it forms $\sim 60$ halos of galactic size, each resolved with about 10
million particles. The concentration-mass relation of COCO halos deviates from
a single power law for masses $M_{200}<$a few$\times 10^{8}h^{-1}M_{\odot}$,
where it flattens in agreement with results by Sanchez-Conde et al. We confirm
the power-law character of the subhalo mass function, $\overline
N(>\mu)\propto\mu^{-s}$, down to a reduced subhalo mass
$M_{sub}/M_{200}\equiv\mu=10^{-6}$, with a best-fit power-law index, $s=0.94$,
for hosts of mass $\langle M_{200}\rangle=10^12h^{-1}M_{\odot}$, increasing
very slowly with host mass. The host-mass invariance of the reduced maximum
circular velocity function of subhaloes, $\nu\equiv V_{max}/V_{200}$, hinted at
in previous simulations, is clearly demonstrated over five orders of magnitude
in host mass. Similarly, we find that the average, normalized radial
distribution of subhaloes is approximately universal (i.e. independent of
subhalo mass), as previously suggested by the Aquarius simulations of
individual halos. Finally, we find that at fixed physical subhalo size,
subhaloes in lower mass hosts typically have lower central densities than those
in higher mass hosts.