In this paper we explore a quantitative and efficient method to constrain the
halo properties of distant galaxy populations through ``galaxy--galaxy" lensing
and show that the mean masses and sizes of halos can be estimated accurately,
without excessive data requirements. Specifically, we propose a
maximum-likelihood analysis which takes full account of the actual image
ellipticities, positions and apparent magnitudes. We apply it to simulated
observations, using the same model for the lensing galaxy population as in BBS,
where the galaxy halos are described by isothermal spheres with velocity
dispersion $\sigma$, truncated at a radius $s$. Both parameters are assumed to
scale with the luminosity of the galaxy. The best fitting values are then
determined with the maximum-likelihood analysis. We explore two different
observing strategies, (a) taking deep images (e.g., with HST) on small fields,
and (b) using shallower images on larger fields. We find that $\sigma_*$ can be
determined to $\lesssim$10\% accuracy if a sample of about 5000 galaxies with
measured ellipticities are available, down to $R\lesssim 23$. Alternatively,
the same accuracy in the determination of $\sigma_*$ can be achieved from about
ten, moderately deep WFPC2 fields, on which galaxy shapes can be measured to
about $R\sim 25$ and for which ground-based images are available on which the
WFPC2 fields are centered. Firm lower limits can be set on the radial extent of
the halo, but the maximal halo extent is poorly constrained. We show that the
likelihood approach can also be used to constrain other parameters of the
galaxy population, such as the Tully-Fischer index, or the mean redshift of the
galaxies as a function of apparent magnitude. Finally we show how multi-color
information, constraining the redshift of individual galaxies, can dramatically