Aims: The galactic superluminal microquasar GRO J1655-40 started a new
outburst in February 2005, after seven years in quiescence, rising to a
high/soft state in March 2005. In this paper we study the X-ray spectra during
this rise. Methods: We observed GRO J1655-40 with XMM-Newton, on 27 February
2005, in the low/hard state, and on three consecutive days in March 2005,
during the rise of the source to its high/soft state. The EPIC-pn camera was
used in the fast-read Burst mode to avoid photon pile-up. Results: First, we
contributed to the improvement of the calibration of the EPIC-pn, since the
high flux received from the source required some refinements in the correction
of the Charge Transfer Efficiency of the camera.Second, we find that the X-ray
spectrum of GRO J1655-40 is dominated in the high/soft state by the thermal
emission from the accretion disk, with an inner radius of 13-14(D/3.2kpc)km and
a maximum temperature of 1.3 keV. Two absorption lines are detected in the
EPIC-pn spectra, at 6.7-6.8 and 7.8-8.0 keV, which can be identified either as
blended Fe XXV and Fe XXVI K-alpha and K-beta lines, or as blueshifted Fe XXV.
We find no orbital dependence on the X-ray properties, which provides an upper
limit for the inclination of the system of 73 degr. The RGS spectrometers
reveal interstellar absorption features at 17.2AA, 17.5AA (Fe L edges) and
23.54AA (OI K-alpha). Finally, while checking the interstellar origin of the OI
line, we find a general correlation of the OI K-alpha line equivalent width
with the hydrogen column density using several sources available in the
literature.