We report results of a comprehensive study of the soft gamma-ray (30 keV to
1.7 MeV) emission of GROJ0422+32 during its first known outburst in 1992. These
results were derived from the BATSE earth-occultation database with the JPL
data analysis package, EBOP (Enhanced BATSE Occultation Package). Results
presented here focus primarily on the long-term temporal and spectral
variability of the source emission associated with the outburst. The light
curves with 1-day resolution in six broad energy-bands show the high-energy
flux (>200 keV) led the low-energy flux (<200 keV) by ~5 days in reaching the
primary peak, but lagged the latter by ~7 days in starting the declining phase.
We confirm the "secondary maximum" of the low-energy (<200 keV) flux at TJD
8970-8981, ~120 days after the first maximum. Our data show that the "secondary
maximum" was also prominent in the 200-300 keV band, but became less pronounced
at higher energies. During this 200-day period, the spectrum evolved from a
power-law with photon index of 1.75 on TJD 8839, to a shape that can be
described by a Comptonized model or an exponential power law below 300 keV,
with a variable power-law tail above 300 keV. The spectrum remained roughly in
this two-component shape until ~9 November (TJD 8935) and then returned to the
initial power-law shape with an index of ~2 until the end of the period. The
correlation of the two spectral shapes with the high and low luminosities of
the soft gamma-ray emission is strongly reminiscent of that seen in Cygnus X-1.
We interpret these results in terms of the Advection Dominated Accretion Flow
(ADAF) model with possibly a "jet-like" region that persistently produced the
non-thermal power-law gamma rays observed throughout the event.