Here we examine the evolution of irradiated clouds using the Smoothed
Particle Hydrodynamics ({\small SPH}) algorithm coupled with a ray-tracing
scheme that calculates the position of the ionisation-front at each timestep.
We present results from simulations performed for three choices of {\small
IR}-flux spanning the range of fluxes emitted by a typical {\small B}-type star
to a cluster of {\small OB}-type stars. The extent of photo-ablation, of
course, depends on the strength of the incident flux and a strong flux of
{\small IR} severely ablates a {\small MC}. Consequently, the first
star-formation sites appear in the dense shocked layer along the edges of the
irradiated cloud. Radiation-induced turbulence readily generates dense
filamentary structure within the photo-ablated cloud although several new
star-forming sites also appear in some of the densest regions at the junctions
of these filaments. Prevalent physical conditions within a {\small MC} play a
crucial role in determining the mode, i.e., filamentary as compared to isolated
pockets, of star-formation, the timescale on which stars form and the
distribution of stellar masses. The probability density functions ({\small
PDF}s) derived for irradiated clouds in this study are intriguing due to their
resemblance with those presented in a recent census of irradiated {\small MC}s.
Furthermore, irrespective of the nature of turbulence, the protostellar
mass-functions({\small MF}s) derived in this study follow a power-law
distribution. When turbulence within the cloud is driven by a relatively strong
flux of {\small IR} such as that emitted by a massive {\small O}-type star or a
cluster of such stars, the {\small MF} approaches the canonical form due to
Salpeter, and even turns-over for protostellar masses smaller than $\sim$0.2
M$_{\odot}$.