Recently discovered scattered light from molecular cloud cores in the
wavelength range 3-5 {\mu}m (called "coreshine") seems to indicate the presence
of grains with sizes above 0.5 {\mu}m. We aim to analyze 3.6 and 4.5 {\mu}m
coreshine from molecular cloud cores to probe the largest grains in the size
distribution. We analyzed dedicated deep Cycle 9 Spitzer IRAC observations in
the 3.6 and 4.5 {\mu}m bands for a sample of 10 low-mass cores. We used a new
modeling approach based on a combination of ratios of the two background- and
foreground-subtracted surface brightnesses and observed limits of the optical
depth. The dust grains were modeled as ice-coated silicate and carbonaceous
spheres. We discuss the impact of local radiation fields with a spectral slope
differing from what is seen in the DIRBE allsky maps. For the cores L260,
ecc806, L1262, L1517A, L1512, and L1544, the model reproduces the data with
maximum grain sizes around 0.9, 0.5, 0.65, 1.5, 0.6, and > 1.5 {\mu}m,
respectively. The maximum coreshine intensities of L1506C, L1439, and L1498 in
the individual bands require smaller maximum grain sizes than derived from the
observed distribution of band ratios. Additional isotropic local radiation
fields with a spectral shape differing from the DIRBE map shape do not remove
this discrepancy. In the case of Rho Oph 9, we were unable to reliably
disentangle the coreshine emission from background variations and the strong
local PAH emission. Considering surface brightness ratios in the 3.6 and 4.5
{\mu}m bands across a molecular cloud core is an effective method of
disentangling the complex interplay of structure and opacities when used in
combination with observed limits of the optical depth.