Disk-halo decompositions of galaxy rotation curves are generally performed in
a parametric way. We construct self-consistent models of nonspherical
isothermal halos embedding a zero-thickness disk, by assuming that the halo
distribution function is a Maxwellian. The method developed here can be used to
study other physically-based choices for the halo distribution function and the
case of a disk accompanied by a bulge. In a preliminary investigation we note
the existence of a fine tuning between the scalelengths R_{\Omega} and h,
respectively characterizing the rise of the rotation curve and the luminosity
profile of the disk, which surprisingly applies to both high surface brightness
and low surface brightness galaxies. This empirical correlation identifies a
much stronger conspiracy than the one required by the smoothness and flatness
of the rotation curve (disk-halo conspiracy). The self-consistent models are
characterized by smooth and flat rotation curves for very different
disk-to-halo mass ratios, hence suggesting that conspiracy is not as dramatic
as often imagined. For a typical rotation curve, with asymptotically flat
rotation curve at V_{\infty} (the precise value of which can also be treated as
a free parameter), and a typical density profile of the disk, self-consistent
models are characterized by two dimensionless parameters, which correspond to
the dimensional scales (the disk mass-to-light ratio M/L and the halo central
density) of standard disk-halo decompositions. We show that if the rotation
curve is decomposed by means of our self-consistent models, the disk-halo
degeneracy is removed and typical rotation curves are fitted by models that are
below the maximum-disk prescription. Similar results are obtained from a study
of NGC 3198. Finally, we quantify the flattening of the spheroidal halo, which
is significant, especially on the scale of the visible disk.