We test accurate models of Comptonization spectra over the high quality data
of the BeppoSAX long look at NGC 5548, allowing for different geometries of the
scattering region, different temperatures of the input soft photon field and
different viewing angles. We find that the BeppoSAX data are well represented
by a plane parallel or hemispherical corona viewed at an inclination angle of
30$^{\circ}$. For both geometries the best fit temperature of the soft photons
is close to 15$^{+3}_{-9}$ eV. The corresponding best fit values of the hot
plasma temperature and optical depth are $kT_{\rm e}\simeq$ 250--260 keV and
$\tau\simeq$ 0.16--0.37 for the slab and hemisphere respectively. These values
are substantially different from those derived fitting the data with a
power-law + cut off approximation to the Comptonization component ($kT_{\rm
e}\lta$ 60 keV, $\tau\simeq$ 2.4). This is due to the fact that accurate
Comptonization spectra in anisotropic geometries show "intrinsic" curvature
which reduces the necessity of a high energy cut-off. The Comptonization
parameter derived for the slab model {is} larger than predicted for a two phase
plane parallel corona in energy balance, suggesting that a more
``photon-starved'' geometry is necessary. The spectral softening detected
during a flare which occurred in the central part of the observation
corresponds to a decrease of the Comptonization parameter, probably associated
with an increase of the soft photon luminosity, the {hard} photon luminosity
remaining constant.