At low redshifts, dust-obscured quasars often have strong yet narrow
permitted lines in the rest-frame optical and ultraviolet, excited by the
central active nucleus, earning the designation Type II quasars. We present a
sample of 145 candidate Type II quasars at redshifts between 2 and 4.3,
encompassing the epoch at which quasar activity peaked in the universe. These
objects, selected from the quasar sample of the Baryon Oscillation
Spectroscopic Survey of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey III, are characterized by
weak continuum in the rest-frame ultraviolet (typical continuum magnitude of i
\approx 22) and strong lines of CIV and Ly \alpha, with Full Width at Half
Maximum less than 2000 kms-1. The continuum magnitudes correspond to an
absolute magnitude of -23 or brighter at redshift 3, too bright to be due
exclusively to the host galaxies of these objects. Roughly one third of the
objects are detected in the shorter-wavelength bands of the WISE survey; the
spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of these objects appear to be intermediate
between classic Type I and Type II quasars seen at lower redshift. Five objects
are detected at rest frame 6\mu m by Spitzer, implying bolometric luminosities
of several times 10^46 erg s-1. We have obtained polarization measurements for
two objects; they are roughly 3% polarized. We suggest that these objects are
luminous quasars, with modest dust extinction (A_V ~ 0.5 mag), whose
ultraviolet continuum also includes a substantial scattering contribution.
Alternatively, the line of sight to the central engines of these objects may be
partially obscured by optically thick material.