It has been argued that blobs ejected from advection-dominated accretion flow
through the accretion-ejection instability undergo expansion due to their high
internal energy density. The expanding blobs interact with their surroundings
and form strong shock, which accelerates a group of electrons to be
relativistic. Then flares are formed. This model has advances in two aspects:
shock acceleration and self-consistent injection. We derive an analytical
formula of the injection function of relativistic electrons based on the
Sedov's law. We calculate the time-dependent spectrum of relativistic electrons
in such an expanding blob. The light-travel effect, the evolution of the
electron spectrum due to energy loss, and the escape of relativistic electrons
from the radiating region are considered, as well as the expansion (at
sub-relativistic speed) of the coasting blob. A large number of light curves
spanning wide spaces of parameters have been given in this paper. Regarding the
symmetry, relative amplitude, duration of a flare, and the time lag between
peak fluxes, we find four basic kinds of light curves for the non-expanding
blob, and seven basic kinds of light curves for the expanding blob. We also
calculate the evolution of the photon spectrum from both non-expanding and
expanding blobs. Different shapes in the phase of decreasing luminosity are
then obtained for different parameter values. The photon index, $\alpha_{\rm
ph}$, keeps constant for non-expanding blobs when luminosity decreases, whereas
$\alpha_{\rm ph}$ continues to decrease after the luminosity reaches its
maximum for expanding blobs. It is expected that we can extract the information
of ejected blobs from the observed light curves based on the present model.