The mean field (MF) approximation for the pion matter, being equivalent to
the leading ChPT order, involves no dynamical loops and, if self-consistent,
produces finite renormalizations only. The weight factor of the Haar measure of
the pion fields, entering the path integral, generates an effective Lagrangian
$\delta \mathcal{L}_{H}$ which is generally singular in the continuum limit.
There exists one parameterization of the pion fields only, for which the weight
factor is equal to unity and $\delta \mathcal{L}_{H}=0$, respectively. This
unique parameterization ensures selfconsistency of the MF approximation. We use
it to calculate thermal Green functions of the pion gas in the MF approximation
as a power series over the temperature. The Borel transforms of thermal
averages of a function $\mathcal{J}(\chi ^{\alpha}\chi ^{\alpha})$ of the pion
fields $\chi ^{\alpha}$ with respect to the scalar pion density are found to be
$\frac{2}{\sqrt{\pi}}\mathcal{J}(4t)$. The perturbation series over the scalar
pion density for basic characteristics of the pion matter such as the pion
propagator, the pion optical potential, the scalar quark condensate
$<{\bar{q}}q>$, the in-medium pion decay constant ${\tilde{F}}$, and the
equation of state of pion matter appear to be asymptotic ones. These series are
summed up using the contour-improved Borel resummation method. The quark scalar
condensate decreases smoothly until $T_{max}\simeq 310$ MeV. The temperature
$T_{max}$ is the maximum temperature admissible for thermalized non-linear
sigma model at zero pion chemical potentials. The estimate of $T_{max}$ is
above the chemical freeze-out temperature $T\simeq 170$ MeV at RHIC and above
the phase transition to two-flavor quark matter $T_{c} \simeq 175$ MeV,
predicted by lattice gauge theories.