Kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulations have emerged as a key tool for
microkinetic modeling in heterogeneous catalysis and other materials
applications. Systems, where site-specificity of all elementary reactions
allows a mapping onto a lattice of discrete active sites, can be addressed
within the particularly efficient lattice kMC approach. To this end we describe
the versatile kmos software package, which offers a most user-friendly
implementation, execution, and evaluation of lattice kMC models of arbitrary
complexity in one- to three-dimensional lattice systems, involving multiple
active sites in periodic or aperiodic arrangements, as well as site-resolved
pairwise and higher-order lateral interactions. Conceptually, kmos achieves a
maximum runtime performance which is essentially independent of lattice size by
generating code for the efficiency-determining local update of available events
that is optimized for a defined kMC model. For this model definition and the
control of all runtime and evaluation aspects kmos offers a high-level
application programming interface. Usage proceeds interactively, via scripts,
or a graphical user interface, which visualizes the model geometry, the lattice
occupations and rates of selected elementary reactions, while allowing
on-the-fly changes of simulation parameters. We demonstrate the performance and
scaling of kmos with the application to kMC models for surface catalytic
processes, where for given operation conditions (temperature and partial
pressures of all reactants) central simulation outcomes are catalytic activity
and selectivities, surface composition, and mechanistic insight into the
occurrence of individual elementary processes in the reaction network.