(abridged) Expansion distances (or expansion parallaxes) for classical novae
are based on comparing a measurement of the shell expansion velocity,
multiplied by the time since outburst, with some measure of the angular size of
the shell. We review and formalize this method in the case of prolate
spheroidal shells. We present expressions for the maximum line-of-sight
velocity from a complete, expanding shell and for its projected major and minor
axes, in terms of the intrinsic axis ratio and the inclination of the polar
axis to the line of sight. For six distinct definitions of ``angular size'', we
tabulate the error in distance that is introduced under the assumption of
spherical symmetry (i.e., without correcting for inclination and axis ratio).
The errors can be significant and systematic, affecting studies of novae
whether considered individually or statistically. Each of the six estimators
overpredicts the distance when the polar axis is close to the line of sight,
and most underpredict the distance when the polar axis is close to the plane of
the sky. The straight mean of the projected semimajor and semiminor axes gives
the least distance bias for an ensemble of randomly oriented prolate shells.
The best individual expansion distances, however, result from a full
spatio-kinematic modeling of the nova shell. We discuss several practical
complications that affect expansion distance measurements of real nova shells.
Nova shell expansion distances be based on velocity and angular size
measurements made contemporaneously if possible, and the same ions and
transitions should be used for the imaging and velocity measurements. We
emphasize the need for complete and explicit reporting of measurement
procedures and results, regardless of the specific method used.