In systems where deposition rates are high compared to diffusion, desorption
and other mechanisms that generate correlations, a crossover from random to
correlated growth of surface roughness is expected at a characteristic time
t_0. This crossover is analyzed in lattice models via scaling arguments, with
support from simulation results presented here and in other contributors works. We
argue that the amplitudes of the saturation roughness and of the saturation
time scale as {t_0}^{1/2} and t_0, respectively. For models with lateral
aggregation, which typically are in the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) class, we
show that t_0 ~ 1/p, where p is the probability of the correlated aggregation
mechanism to take place. However, t_0 ~ 1/p^2 is obtained in solid-on-solid
models with single particle deposition attempts. This group includes models in
various universality classes, with numerical examples being provided in the
Edwards-Wilkinson (EW), KPZ and Villain-Lai-Das Sarma (nonlinear molecular-beam
epitaxy) classes. Most applications are for two-component models in which
random deposition, with probability 1-p, competes with a correlated aggregation
process with probability p. However, our approach can be extended to other
systems with the same crossover, such as the generalized restricted
solid-on-solid model with maximum height difference S, for large S. Moreover,
the scaling approach applies to all dimensions. In the particular case of
one-dimensional KPZ processes with this crossover, we show that t_0 ~ nu^{-1}
and nu ~ lambda^{2/3}, where nu and lambda are the coefficients of the linear
and nonlinear terms of the associated KPZ equations. The applicability of
previous results on models in the EW and KPZ classes is discussed.