Using an empirical pseudopotential description of electron states and an
adiabatic bond charge model for phonon states in bulk silicon, we theoretically
investigate two-photon indirect optical injection of carriers and spins and
two-color coherent control of the motion of the injected carriers and spins.
For two-photon indirect carrier and spin injection, we identify the selection
rules of band edge transitions, the injection in each conduction band valley,
and the injection from each phonon branch at 4 K and 300 K. At 4 K, the TA
phonon-assisted transitions dominate the injection at low photon energies, and
the TO phonon-assisted at high photon energies. At 300 K, the former dominates
at all photon energies of interest. The carrier injection shows anisotropy and
linear-circular dichroism with respect to light propagation direction. For
light propagating along the $<001>$ direction, the carrier injection exhibits
valley anisotropy, and the injection into the $Z$ conduction band valley is
larger than that into the $X/Y$ valleys. For $\sigma^-$ light propagating along
the $<001>$ ($<111>$) direction, the degree of spin polarization gives a
maximum value about 20% (6%) at 4 K and -10% (20%) at 300 K, and at both
temperature shows abundant structure near the injection edges due to
contributions from different phonon branches. Forthe two-color coherent current
injection with an incident optical field composed of a fundamental frequency
and its second harmonic, the response tensors of the electron (hole) charge and
spin currents are calculated at 4 K and 300 K. We show the current control for
three different polarization scenarios. The spectral dependence of the maximum
swarm velocity shows that the direction of charge current reverses under
increase in photon energy.