Orbital motions from binary stars can broaden the observed line-of-sight
velocity distribution of a stellar system, artificially inflating the measured
line-of-sight velocity dispersion, which can in turn lead to erroneous
conclusions about the dynamical state of the system. Cottaar et al. (2012b)
proposed a maximum likelihood procedure to recover the intrinsic velocity
dispersion of a resolved star cluster from a single epoch of radial velocity
data of individual stars, which they achieved by simultaneously fitting the
intrinsic velocity distribution of the single stars and the centres of mass of
the binaries along with the velocity shifts caused by binary orbital motions.
Assuming well-characterized binary properties, they showed that this procedure
can accurately reproduce intrinsic velocity dispersions below 1 km s$^{-1}$ for
solar-type stars. Here we investigate the systematic offsets induced in cases
where the binary properties are uncertain, and we show how two epochs of radial
velocity data with an appropriate baseline can help to mitigate these
systematic effects. We first test the method above using Monte Carlo
simulations, taking into account the large uncertainties in the binary
properties of OB stars. We then apply it to radial velocity data in the young
massive cluster R136, an example for which the intrinsic velocity dispersion of
O-type stars is known from an intensive multi-epoch approach. For typical
velocity dispersions of young massive clusters ($\gtrsim 4$ km s$^{-1}$) and
with a single epoch of data, we demonstrate that the method can just about
distinguish between a cluster in virial equilibrium and an unbound cluster.
This is due to the higher spectroscopic binary fraction and more loosely
constrained distributions of orbital parameters of OB stars compared to
solar-type stars. By extending the maximum likelihood method to multi-epoch
data, <abridged>