We present new observational results on the kinematics of the damped lya
systems. Our full sample is now comprised of 31 low-ion profiles and exhibits
similar characteristics to the sample from Paper I. The primary exception is
that the new distribution of velocity widths includes values out to a maximum
of nearly 300 km/s, approx 100 km/s greater than the previous maximum. These
high velocity width systems will significantly leverage models introduced to
explain the damped lya systems. Comparing the characteristics from low-redshift
and high-redshift sub-samples, we find no evidence for significant evolution in
the kinematic properties of protogalaxies from z = 2.0 - 3.3.
  The new observations give greater statistical significance to the main
conclusions of our first paper. In particular, those models inconsistent with
the damped lya observations in Paper I are ruled out at even higher levels of
confidence. At the same time, the observations are consistent with a population
of rapidly rotating, thick disks (the TRD model) at high redshift.
  Buoyed by the success of the TRD model, we investigate it more closely by
considering more realistic disk properties. Our goal is to demonstrate the
statistical power of the damped lya observations by investigating the
robustness of the TRD model. In particular, we study the effects of warping,
realistic rotation curves, and photoionization on the kinematics of disks in
the TRD model. The principal results are: (1) disk warping has only minimal
effect on the kinematic results, primarily influencing the effective disk
thickness, (2) the TRD model is robust to more realistic rotation curves; (3)
the effects of photoionization require thicker disks to give consistent
velocity width distributions. [abridged]