We present a multi-wavelength analysis of the very fast X-ray transient MAXI
J0158-744, which was detected by MAXI/GSC on 2011 November 11. The subsequent
exponential decline of the X-ray flux was followed with Swift observations, all
of which revealed spectra with low temperatures (~100eV) indicating that MAXI
J0158-744 is a new Supersoft Source (SSS). The Swift X-ray spectra near maximum
show features around 0.8 keV that we interpret as possible absorption from
OVIII, and emission from O, Fe, and Ne lines. We obtained SAAO and ESO optical
spectra of the counterpart early in the outburst and several weeks later. The
early spectrum is dominated by strong Balmer and HeI emission, together with
weaker HeII emission. The later spectrum reveals absorption features that
indicate a B1/2IIIe spectral type, and all spectral features are at velocities
consistent with the Small Magellanic Cloud. At this distance, it is a luminous
SSS (>10^37 erg/s) but whose brief peak luminosity of >10^39 erg/s in the 2-4
keV band makes it the brightest SSS yet seen at "hard" X-rays. We propose that
MAXI J0158-744 is a Be-WD binary, and the first example to possibly enter ULX
territory. The brief hard X-ray flash could possibly be a result of the
interaction of the ejected nova shell with the B star wind in which the white
dwarf (WD) is embedded. This makes MAXI J0158-744 only the third Be/WD system
in the Magellanic Clouds, but it is by far the most luminous. The properties of
MAXI J0158-744 give weight to previous suggestions that SSS in nearby galaxies
are associated with early-type stellar systems.