We consider the application of the recursion method to the calculation of
one-particle Green's functions for strongly correlated systems and propose a
new way how to extract the information about the infinite system from the exact
diagonalisation of small clusters. Comparing the results for several cluster
sizes allows us to establish those Lanczos coefficients that are not affected
by the finite size effects and provide the information about the Green's
function of the macroscopic system. The analysis of this 'bulk-related' subset
of coefficients supplemented by alternative analytic approaches allows to infer
their asymptotic behaviour and to propose an approximate analytical form for
the 'terminator' of the Green's function continued fraction expansion for the
infinite system. As a result, the Green's function acquires the branch cut
singularity corresponding to the incoherent part of the spectrum. The method is
applied to the spectral function of one-hole in the Majumdar-Ghosh model (the
one-dimensional $ t-J-J^{\prime}$ model at $J^{\prime}/J=1/2$). For this model,
the branch cut starts at finite energy $\omega_0$, but there is no upper bound
of the spectrum, corresponding to a linear increase of the recursion
coefficients. Further characteristics of the spectral function are band gaps in
the middle of the band and bound states below $\omega_0$ or within the gaps.
The band gaps arise due to the period doubling of the unit cell and show up as
characteristic oscillations of the recursion coefficients on top of the linear
increase.