Context. The Kepler mission has recently discovered a brown dwarf companion
transiting one member of the M4V+M5V visual binary system LHS 6343 AB with an
orbital period of 12.71 days. Aims. The particular interest of this transiting
system lies in the synchronicity between the transits of the brown dwarf C
component and the main modulation observed in the light curve, which is assumed
to be caused by rotating starspots on the A component. We model the activity of
this star by deriving maps of the active regions that allow us to study stellar
rotation and the possible interaction with the brown dwarf companion. Methods.
An average transit profile was derived, and the photometric perturbations due
to spots occulted during transits are removed to derive more precise transit
parameters. We applied a maximum entropy spot model to fit the out-of-transit
optical modulation as observed by Kepler during an uninterrupted interval of
500 days. It assumes that stellar active regions consist of cool spots and
bright faculae whose visibility is modulated by stellar rotation. Results.
Thanks to the extended photometric time series, we refine the determination of
the transit parameters and find evidence of spots that are occulted by the
brown dwarf during its transits. The modelling of the out-of-transit light
curve of LHS 6343 A reveals several starspots rotating with a slightly longer
period than the orbital period of the brown dwarf, i.e., 13.13 +- 0.02 days. No
signature attributable to differential rotation is observed. We find evidence
of a persistent active longitude on the M dwarf preceding the sub- companion
point by 100 deg and lasting for at least 500 days. This can be relevant for
understanding how magnetic interaction works in low-mass binary and star-planet
systems.