By means of our own cosmological-hydrodynamical simulation and
semi-analytical model we studied galaxy population properties in clusters and
groups, spanning over 10 different bands from UV to NIR, and their evolution
since redshift z=2. We compare our results in terms of galaxy red/blue
fractions and luminous-to-faint ratio (LFR) on the Red Sequence (RS) with
recent observational data reaching beyond z=1.5. Different selection criteria
were tested in order to retrieve galaxies belonging to the RS: either by their
quiescence degree measured from their specific SFR ("Dead Sequence"), or by
their position in a colour-colour plane which is also a function of sSFR. In
both cases, the colour cut and the limiting magnitude threshold were let
evolving with redshift, in order to follow the natural shift of the
characteristic luminosity in the LF.
  We find that the Butcher-Oemler effect is wavelength-dependent, with the
fraction of blue galaxies increasing steeper in optical colours than in NIR.
Besides, only when applying a lower limit in terms of fixed absolute magnitude,
a steep BO effect can be reproduced, while the blue fraction results less
evolving when selecting samples by stellar mass or an evolving magnitude limit.
We then find that also the RS-LFR behaviour, highly debated in the literature,
is strongly dependent on the galaxy selection function: in particular its very
mild evolution recovered when measured in terms of stellar mass, is in
agreement with values reported for some of the highest redshift confirmed
(proto)clusters. As to differences through environments, we find that normal
groups and (to a lesser extent) cluster outskirts present the highest values of
both star forming fraction and LFR at low z, while fossil groups and cluster
cores the lowest: this separation among groups begins after z~0.5, while
earlier all group star forming properties are undistinguishable.