We study in the present series of articles the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ)
equation $$ \partial_t h(t,x)=\nu\Del h(t,x)+\lambda |\nabla h(t,x)|^2
+\sqrt{D}\eta(t,x), \qquad x\in\R^d $$ in $d\ge 3$ dimensions in the
perturbative regime, i.e. for $\lambda>0$ small enough and an initial condition
$h_0=h(t=0,\cdot)$ such that $\lambda|\nabla h_0|=o(1)$. The forcing term
$\eta$ in the right-hand side is a regularized white noise. We prove a
large-scale diffusive limit for the solution, in particular a heat-kernel
behaviour for the covariance in a parabolic scaling. The proof is generally
based on perturbative estimates obtained by a multi-scale cluster expansion,
and a rigorous implementation of K. Wilson's renormalization group scheme; it
extends to equations in the KPZ universality class, $$ \partial_t
h(t,x)=\nu\Del h(t,x)+\lambda V(\nabla h(t,x)) +\sqrt{D}\eta(t,x), \qquad
x\in\R^d $$ for a large class of convex, isotropic deposition rates $V\ge 0$.
Our expansion is meant to be a rigorous substitute for the response field
formalism whenever the latter makes predictions. An important part of the proof
relies however more specifically on a priori bounds for the solutions of the
KPZ equation, coupled with large deviation estimates. \medskip The present
article is dedicated to a generalization of the PDE estimates obtained in the
previous article for the infra-red cut-off equation to the case of a function
$V$ with polynomial growth of arbitrary order at infinity. The main tool here
is the representation of $h$ as the solution of some minimization problem
through the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman formalism.