We describe a method for the determination of black-hole masses based on
information inferred from high-energy spectra. It is required that the spectral
energy distribution consist of thermal and Comptonized components. One can
then, in principle, infer the depth of the gravitational potential well for
sources of known distance. The thermal component is inferred by the integration
of a blackbody spectral form over the disk. We assume that the color
temperature distribution in the disk has a specific shape given by the
Shakura-Sunyaev (1973) disk model which goes to zero at the inner disk radius
and at infinity and has a maximum at 4.2 Schwarzchild radii. In this
formulation there is only one parameter, the so called color correction factor,
relating the apparent temperature to effective temperature which characterizes
the thermal emission component. We have made use of improved Galactic black
hole binary dynamical mass determinations to derive, in effect, an empirical
calibration of this factor. We then present our analysis of observational data
for representative objects of several classes; Galactic black hole X-ray
binaries, narrow line Seyfert galaxies (NLS1), and ``ultra-luminous''
extragalactic X-ray sources (ULX). We then apply our mass determination
calculation and present our results. We argue that this approach can
potentially fill a void in the current knowledge of NLS1 and ULX properties,
and discuss how a deeper understanding of both classes has relevance to the
broader issues of how cosmic black holes, beyond the stellar-mass realm, are
formed and what is their overall mass distribution.