Hot temperature minerals have been detected in a large number of comets and
were also identified in the samples of Comet Wild 2 that were returned by the
Stardust mission. Meanwhile, observations of the distribution of hot minerals
in young stellar systems suggest that these materials were produced in the
inner part of the primordial nebula and have been transported outward in the
formation zone of comets. We investigate the possibility that photophoresis
provides a viable mechanism to transport high-temperature materials from the
inner solar system to the regions in which the comets were forming. We use a
grid of time-dependent disk models of the solar nebula to quantify the distance
range at which hot minerals can be transported from the inner part of the disk
toward its outer regions as a function of their size and density. The particles
considered here are in the form of aggregates that presumably were assembled
from hot mineral individual grains ranging down to submicron sizes and formed
by condensation within the hottest portion of the solar nebula. Our
particle-transport model includes the photophoresis, radiation pressure, and
gas drag. Depending on the postulated disk parameters and the density of
particles, 10-2 to 10-1 m aggregates can reach heliocentric distances up to 35
AU in the primordial nebula over very short timescales (no more than a few
hundred thousand years). 10-3 m particles follow the same trajectory as the
larger ones but their maximum migration distance does not exceed 26 AU and is
reached at later epochs in the disks. On the other hand, 10-5 to 10-4 m
aggregates are continuously pushed outward during the evolution of the solar
nebula. Our simulations suggest that irrespective of the employed solar nebula
model, photophoresis is a mechanism that can explain the presence of hot
temperature minerals in the formation region of comets.