We consider a set up where a file of size M is stored in n distributed
storage nodes, using an (n,k) minimum storage regenerating (MSR) code, i.e., a
maximum distance separable (MDS) code that also allows efficient exact-repair
of any failed node. The problem of interest in this paper is to minimize the
repair bandwidth B for exact regeneration of a single failed node, i.e., the
minimum data to be downloaded by a new node to replace the failed node by its
exact replica. Previous work has shown that a bandwidth of B=[M(n-1)]/[k(n-k)]
is necessary and sufficient for functional (not exact) regeneration. It has
also been shown that if k < = max(n/2, 3), then there is no extra cost of exact
regeneration over functional regeneration. The practically relevant setting of
low-redundancy, i.e., k/n>1/2 remains open for k>3 and it has been shown that
there is an extra bandwidth cost for exact repair over functional repair in
this case. In this work, we adopt into the distributed storage context an
asymptotically optimal interference alignment scheme previously proposed by
Cadambe and Jafar for large wireless interference networks. With this scheme we
solve the problem of repair bandwidth minimization for (n,k) exact-MSR codes
for all (n,k) values including the previously open case of k > \max(n/2,3). Our
main result is that, for any (n,k), and sufficiently large file sizes, there is
no extra cost of exact regeneration over functional regeneration in terms of
the repair bandwidth per bit of regenerated data. More precisely, we show that
in the limit as M approaches infinity, the ratio B/M = (n-1)/(k(n-k))$.