In this paper, we prove the existence of capacity achieving linear codes with
random binary sparse generating matrices. The results on the existence of
capacity achieving linear codes in the literature are limited to the random
binary codes with equal probability generating matrix elements and sparse
parity-check matrices. Moreover, the codes with sparse generating matrices
reported in the literature are not proved to be capacity achieving.
  As opposed to the existing results in the literature, which are based on
optimal maximum a posteriori decoders, the proposed approach is based on a
different decoder and consequently is suboptimal. We also demonstrate an
interesting trade-off between the sparsity of the generating matrix and the
error exponent (a constant which determines how exponentially fast the
probability of error decays as block length tends to infinity). An interesting
observation is that for small block sizes, less sparse generating matrices have
better performances while for large blok sizes, the performance of the random
generating matrices become independent of the sparsity. Moreover, we prove the
existence of capacity achieving linear codes with a given (arbitrarily low)
density of ones on rows of the generating matrix. In addition to proving the
existence of capacity achieving sparse codes, an important conclusion of our
paper is that for a sufficiently large code length, no search is necessary in
practice to find a deterministic matrix by proving that any arbitrarily
selected sequence of sparse generating matrices is capacity achieving with high
probability. The focus in this paper is on the binary symmetric and binary
erasure channels.her discrete memory-less symmetric channels.