We present the first set of a new generation of models of massive stars of
solar composition extending between 13 and 120 \msun, computed with and without
the effects of rotation. We included two instabilities induced by rotation,
namely the meridional circulation and the shear instability. We implemented two
alternative schemes to treat the transport of the angular momentum: the
advection-diffusion formalism and the simpler purely diffusive one. The full
evolution from the Pre Main Sequence up to the presupernova stage is followed
in detail with a very extended nuclear network. The explosive yields are
provided for a variety of possible mass cut and are available at the website
\url{http://www.iasf-roma.inaf.it/orfeo/public{\_}html}.
  We find that both the He and the CO core masses are larger than those of
their non rotating counterparts. Also the C abundance left by the He burning is
lower than in the non rotating case, especially for stars of initial mass 13-25
\msun, and this affects the final Mass-Radius relation, basically the final
binding energy, at the presupernova stage. The elemental yields produced by a
generation of stars rotating initially at 300 km/s do not change substantially
with respect to those produced by a generation of non rotating massive stars,
the main differences being a slight overproduction of the weak s-component and
a larger production of F. Since rotation also affects the mass loss rate,
either directly and indirectly, we find substantial differences in the
lifetimes as O-type and WR-subtypes between rotating and non rotating models.
The maximum mass exploding as type IIP supernova ranges between 15 and 20\msun
in both sets of models (this value depending basically on the larger mass loss
rates in the Red Super Giant phase due to the inclusion of the dust driven
wind). This limiting value is in remarkable good agreement with current
estimates.