Context. A unified equation of state (EoS) should describe the crust and the
core of a neutron star using the same physical model. The Brussels-Montreal
group has recently derived a family of such EoSs based on the nuclear
energy-density functional theory with generalized Skyrme effective forces,
fitted to the available mass data. At the same time, these forces were
constrained to reproduce microscopic calculations of homogeneous neutron matter
based on realistic two- and three-nucleon forces.
  Aims. We represent basic physical characteristics of the latest
Brussels-Montreal EoS models by analytical expressions to facilitate their
inclusion in astrophysical simulations.
  Methods. We consider three EoS models, which significantly differ by
stiffness: BSk19, BSk20, and BSk21. For each of them we constructed two
versions of the EoS parametrization. In the first version, pressure P and
gravitational mass density \rho are given as functions of the baryon number
density n_b. In the second version, P, \rho, and n_b are given as functions of
pseudo-enthalpy, which is useful for two-dimensional calculations of stationary
rotating configurations of neutron stars. In addition to the EoS, we derived
analytical expressions for several related quantities that are required in
neutron-star simulations: number fractions of electrons and muons in the
stellar core, nucleon numbers per nucleus in the inner crust, and equivalent
radii and shape parameters of the nuclei in the inner crust.
  Results. We obtain analytical representations for the basic characteristics
of the models of cold dense matter, which are most important for studies of
neutron stars. We demonstrate the usability of our results by applying them to
calculations of neutron-star mass-radius relations, maximum and minimum masses,
thresholds of direct Urca processes, and the electron conductivity in the
neutron-star crust.