Intermediate-band photometry of the Hyades cluster on the Caby system is
presented for dwarf stars ranging from spectral type A through late K. A mean
hk, b-y relation is constructed using only single stars without anomalous
atmospheres and compared to the field stars of the solar neighborhood. For the
F dwarfs, the Hyades relation defines an approximate LOWER bound in the
two-color diagram, consistent with an [Fe/H] between +0.10 and +0.15. These
index-color diagrams follow the common convention of presenting stars with
highest abundance at the bottom of the plot although the index values for the
metal-rich stars are numerically larger. For field F dwarfs in the range [Fe/H]
between +0.4 and -1.0, [Fe/H] = -5.6 delta-hk + 0.125, with no evidence for a
color dependence in the slope. For the G and K dwarfs, the Hyades mean relation
crosses the field star distribution in the two-color diagram, defining an
approximate UPPER bound for the local disk stars. Stars found above the Hyades
stars fall in at least one of three categories: [Fe/H] below -0.7, [Fe/H] above
that of the Hyades, or chromospherically active. It is concluded that, contrary
to the predictions of model atmospheres, the hk index for cool dwarfs at a
given color hits a maximum value for stars below solar composition and, with
increasing [Fe/H] above some critical value, declines. This trend is
consistent, however, with the predictions from synthetic indices based upon
much narrower Ca filters where the crossover is caused by the metallicity
sensitivity of b-y.