We undertook a surface photometry survey of 200 galaxies in the Virgo cluster
(complete to B<14.0 mag) carried out in the near-Infrared (NIR) H band.
Combining velocity dispersion measurements from the literature with new
spectroscopic data for 11 galaxies we derive distances of 59 early type
galaxies using the Fundamental Plane (FP) method. The distance of another 75
late-type galaxies is determined using the Tully-Fisher (TF) method. For this
purpose we use the maximum rotational velocity, as derived from HI spectra from
the literature, complemented with new H_alpha rotation curves of 8 highly HI
deficient galaxies. The zero-point of the FP and TF template relations are
calibrated assuming the distance modulus of Virgo mu_o=31.0, as determined with
the Cepheids method. Using these 134 distance determinations (with individual
uncertainties of 0.35 (TF), 0.45 (FP) mag) we find that the distance of cluster
A, associated with M87, is mu_o=30.84+-0.06. Cluster B, off-set to the south,
is found at mu_o=31.84+-0.10$. This subcluster is falling onto A at about 750
km/sec. Clouds W and M are at twice the distance of A. Galaxies on the
North-West and South-East of the main cluster A belong to two clouds composed
almost exclusively of spiral galaxies with distances consistent with A, but
with significantly different velocity distributions, suggesting that they are
falling onto cluster A at approximately 770 km/sec from the far-side and at 200
km/sec from the near-side respectively. The mass of Virgo inferred from the
peculiar motions induced on its vicinity is consistent with the virial
expectation.