We have monitored the 2014 superoutburst of the WZ Sge-type transient PNV
J03093063+2638031 for more than four months, from V=11.0 maximum brightness
down to V=18.4 mag, close to quiescence value, by obtaining BVRI photometry and
low resolution fluxed spectroscopy. The evolution was normal and no late-time
`echo' outbursts were observed. The absolute integrated flux of emission lines
kept declining along the superoutburst, and their increasing contrast with the
underlying continuum was simply the result of the faster decline of the
continuum compared to the emission lines. Inspection of historical Harvard
plates covering the 1899-1981 period did not reveal previous outbursts, neither
`normal' nor 'super'. We discovered an extended emission nebula (radius ~1
arcmin) around PNV J03093063+2638031, that became visible for a few months as
the result of photo-ionization from the superoutburst of the central star. It
is not present on Palomar I and II sky survey images and it quickly disappeared
when the outburst was over. From the rate at wich the inization front swept
through the nebula, we derive a distance of ~120 pc to the system. The nebula
is density bounded with an outer radius of 0.03 pc, and the absolute magnitude
of the central star in quiescence is M(V)~14.2 mag. The electron density in the
nebula is estimated to be 10(+5) cm(-3) from the observed recombination time
scale. Given the considerable substructures seen across the nebula, a low
filling factor is inferred. Similar nebulae have not been reported for other WZ
Sge objects and the challenges posed to models are considered.