Intriguing sub-TeV tails in the pulsed $\gamma$-ray emission from the Crab
pulsar have been recently discovered by the MAGIC and VERITAS Collaborations.
They were not clearly predicted by any pulsar model. It is at present argued
that this emission is produced by electrons in the Inverse Compton process
occurring either in the outer gap of the pulsar magnetosphere or in the pulsar
wind region at some distance from the light cylinder. We analyse another
scenario which is consistent with the basic features of this enigmatic
emission. It is proposed that this emission is caused by electrons accelerated
very close to the light cylinder where the $e^\pm$ plasma can not saturate
induced huge electric fields. Electrons reach energies sufficient for
production of hard $\gamma$-ray spectra in the curvature radiation process. Due
to different curvature radii of the leading and trailing magnetic field lines,
the $\gamma$-ray spectra from separate pulses should extend to different
maximum energies. The scenario can also explain the lower level $\gamma$-ray
emission from the interpulse region (between P1 and P2) observed in the Crab
pulsar light curve. Moreover, we argue that pulsars with parameters close to
the Vela pulsar should also show pulsed emission with the cut-off at clearly
lower energies ($\sim$50 GeV) than that observed in the case of the Crab
pulsar. On the other hand, such tail emission is not expected in pulsars with
parameters close to the Geminga pulsar. The model also predicts the tail
$\gamma$-ray emission extending up to $\sim$50 GeV from some millisecond
pulsars with extreme parameters such as PSR J0218+4243 and PSR J1823-3021A.