Convolutional LDPC ensembles, introduced by Felstrom and Zigangirov, have
excellent thresholds and these thresholds are rapidly increasing as a function
of the average degree. Several variations on the basic theme have been proposed
to date, all of which share the good performance characteristics of
convolutional LDPC ensembles. We describe the fundamental mechanism which
explains why "convolutional-like" or "spatially coupled" codes perform so well.
In essence, the spatial coupling of the individual code structure has the
effect of increasing the belief-propagation (BP) threshold of the new ensemble
to its maximum possible value, namely the maximum-a-posteriori (MAP) threshold
of the underlying ensemble. For this reason we call this phenomenon "threshold
saturation." This gives an entirely new way of approaching capacity. One
significant advantage of such a construction is that one can create
capacity-approaching ensembles with an error correcting radius which is
increasing in the blocklength. Our proof makes use of the area theorem of the
BP-EXIT curve and the connection between the MAP and BP threshold recently
pointed out by Measson, Montanari, Richardson, and Urbanke. Although we prove
the connection between the MAP and the BP threshold only for a very specific
ensemble and only for the binary erasure channel, empirically a threshold
saturation phenomenon occurs for a wide class of ensembles and channels. More
generally, we conjecture that for a large range of graphical systems a similar
saturation of the "dynamical" threshold occurs once individual components are
coupled sufficiently strongly. This might give rise to improved algorithms as
well as to new techniques for analysis.