We carried out observations, with five different instruments ranging in
aperture from 0.4m to 10m, of the satellites of Uranus during that planet's
2007 Equinox. Our observations covered specific intervals of time when mutual
eclipses and occultations were predicted.
  The observations were carried out in the near-infrared part of the spectrum
to mitigate the glare from the planet. Frames were acquired at rates > 1/min.
Following modelling and subtraction of the planetary source from these frames,
differential aperture photometry was carried out on the satellite pairs
involved in the predicted events. In all cases but one, nearby bright
satellites were used as reference sources.
  We have obtained fifteen individual lightcurves, eight of which show a clear
drop in the flux from the satellite pair, indicating that a mutual event took
place. Three of these involve the faint satellite Miranda. All eight
lightcurves were model-fitted to yield best estimates of the time of maximum
flux drop and the impact parameter. In three cases best-fit albedo ratios were
also derived. We used these estimates to generate intersatellite astrometric
positions with typical formal uncertainties of <0.01 arcsec, several times
better than conventional astrometry of these satellites. The statistics of our
estimated event midtimes show a systematic lag, with the observations later
than predictions. In addition, lightcurves of two partial eclipses of Miranda
show no statistically significant evidence of a light drop, at variance with
the predictions. These indicate that new information about the Uranian
satellite system is contained in observations of mutual events acquired here
and by other groups.