We discuss the future prospects of heavy neutrino searches at next generation
lepton colliders. In particular, we focus on the planned electron-positron
colliders, operating in two different beam modes, namely, $e^+e^-$ and
$e^-e^-$. In the $e^+e^-$ beam mode, we consider various production and decay
modes of the heavy neutrino ($N$), and find that the final state with
$e+2j+\slashed{E}$, arising from the $e^+e^-\to N\nu$ production mode, is the
most promising channel. However, since this mode is insensitive to the Majorana
nature of the heavy neutrinos, we also study a new production channel
$e^+e^-\to Ne^\pm W^\mp$, which leads to a same-sign dilepton plus four jet
final state, thus directly probing the lepton number violation in $e^+e^-$
colliders. In the $e^-e^-$ beam mode, we study the prospects of the lepton
number violating process of $e^-e^-\to W^-W^-$, mediated by a heavy Majorana
neutrino. We use both cut-based and multivariate analysis techniques to make a
realistic calculation of the relevant signal and background events, including
detector effects for a generic linear collider detector. We find that with the
cut-based analysis, the light-heavy neutrino mixing parameter $|V_{eN}|^2$ can
be probed down to $\sim 10^{-4}$ at 95\% C.L. for the heavy neutrino mass up to
$400$ GeV or so at $\sqrt s=500$ GeV with $100 \rm{fb}^{-1}$ of integrated
luminosity. For smaller mixing values, we show that a multivariate analysis can
improve the signal significance by up to an order of magnitude. These limits
will be at least an order of magnitude better than the current best limits from
electroweak precision data, as well as the projected limits from $\sqrt s=14$
TeV LHC.