Radial motions of stars in nearby moving clusters are determined from
accurate proper motions and trigonometric parallaxes, without any use of
spectroscopy. Assuming that cluster members share the same velocity vector
(apart from a random dispersion), we apply a maximum-likelihood method on
astrometric data from Hipparcos to compute radial and space velocities (and
their dispersions) in the Ursa Major, Hyades, Coma Berenices, Pleiades, and
Praesepe clusters, and for the alpha Persei, Scorpius-Centaurus, and `HIP
98321' associations. The radial motion of the Hyades cluster is determined to
within 0.47 km/s (standard error), and that of its individual stars to within
0.6 km/s. For other clusters, Hipparcos data yield astrometric radial
velocities with typical accuracies of a few km/s. A comparison of these
astrometric values with spectroscopic radial velocities in the literature shows
a good general agreement and, in the case of the best-determined Hyades
cluster, also permits searches for subtle astrophysical differences, such as
evidence for enhanced convective blueshifts of F-dwarf spectra, and decreased
gravitational redshifts in giants. Similar comparisons for the Scorpius OB2
complex indicate some expansion of its associations, albeit slower than
expected from their ages. As a by-product from the radial-velocity solutions,
kinematically improved parallaxes for individual stars are obtained, enabling
Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams with unprecedented accuracy in luminosity. For the
Hyades (parallax accuracy 0.3 mas), its main sequence resembles a thin line,
possibly with wiggles in it.