Context. Kepler-17 is a G2V sun-like star accompanied by a transiting planet
with a mass of ~2.5 Jupiter masses and an orbital period of 1.486 d, recently
discovered by the Kepler space telescope. This star is highly interesting as a
young solar analogue. Aims. We used about 500 days of high-precision,
high-duty-cycle optical photometry collected by Kepler to study the rotation of
the star and the evolution of its photospheric active regions. Methods. We
applied a maximum-entropy light curve inversion technique to model the flux
rotational modulation induced by active regions that consist of dark spots and
bright solar-like faculae with a fixed area ratio. Their configuration was
varied after a fixed time interval to take their evolution into account. Active
regions were used as tracers to study stellar differential rotation, and
planetary occultations were used to constrain the latitude of some spots.
Results. Our modelling approach reproduces the light variations of Kepler-17
with a standard deviation of the residuals comparable with the precision of
Kepler photometry. We find several active longitudes where individual active
regions appear, evolve, and decay with lifetimes comparable to those observed
in the Sun, although the star has a spotted area ~10-15 times larger than the
Sun at the maximum of the 11-yr cycle. Kepler-17 shows a solar-like latitudinal
differential rotation, but the fast spot evolution prevents a precise
determination of its amplitude. Moveover, the star shows a cyclic variation of
the starspot area with a period of 47.1 \pm 4.5 d, particularly evident during
the last 200 days of the observations, similar to the solar Rieger cycles.
Possible effects of the close-in massive planet on stellar photospheric
activity cannot be excluded, but require a long-term monitoring to be
unambiguously detected.