If the Electroweak Symmetry Breaking Sector turns out to be strongly
interacting, the actively investigated effective theory for longitudinal gauge
bosons plus Higgs can be efficiently extended to cover the regime of saturation
of unitarity (where the perturbative expansion breaks down). This is achieved
by dispersion relations, whose subtraction constants and left cut contribution
can be approximately obtained in different ways giving rise to different
unitarization procedures. We illustrate the ideas with the Inverse Amplitude
Method, one version of the N/D method and another improved version of the
K-matrix. In the three cases we get partial waves which are unitary, analytical
with the proper left and right cuts and in some cases poles in the second
Riemann sheet that can be understood as dynamically generated resonances. In
addition they reproduce at Next to Leading Order (NLO) the perturbative
expansion for the five partial waves not vanishing (up to J=2) and they are
renormalization scale ($\mu$) independent. Also the unitarization formalisms
are extended to the coupled channel case. Then we apply the results to the
elastic scattering amplitude for the longitudinal components of the gauge
bosons $V=W, Z$ at high energy. We also compute $h h \rightarrow h h$ and the
inelastic process $VV\rightarrow h h$ which are coupled to the elastic $VV$
channel for custodial isospin $I=0$. We numerically compare the three methods
for various values of the low-energy couplings and explain the reasons for the
differences found in the $I=J=1$ partial wave. Then we study the resonances
appearing in the different elastic and coupled channels in terms of the
effective Lagrangian parameters.