In scattering theory, the unitary limit is defined by an infinite
scattering-length and a zero effective range, corresponding to a phase-shift
\pi/2, independent of energy. This condition is satisfied by a rank-1 separable
potential V(k,k')=-v(k)v(k') with
v^{2}(k)=(4\pi)^{2}(\Lambda^{2}-k^{2})^{-1/2}, \Lambda being the cut-off in
momentum space.Previous calculations using a Pauli-corrected ladder summation
to calculate the energy of a zero temperature many body system of spin 1/2
fermions with this interaction gave \xi=0.24 (in units of kinetic energy)
independent of density and with \Lambda---->infinity. This value of \xi is
appreciably smaller than the experimental and that obtained from other
calculations, most notably from Monte Carlo, which in principle would be the
most reliable. Our previous work did however also show a strong dependence on
effective range r_0 (with r_0=0 at unitarity). With an increase to r_0=1.0 the
energy varied from \xi~0.38 at k_f=0.6 1/fm to ~0.45 at k_f=1.8 1/fm which is
somewhat closer to the Monte-Carlo results. These previous calculations are
here extended by including the effect of the previously neglected mean-field
propagation, the dispersion correction. This is repulsive and found to increase
drastically with decreasing effective range. It is large enough to suggest a
revised value of \xi~0.4 <--> ~0.5 independent of r_0. Off-shell effects are
also investigated by introducing a rank-2 (phase-shift equivalent) separable
potential. Effects of 10% or more in energy could be demonstrated for r_0>0. It
is pointed out that a computational cut-off in momentum-space brings in another
scale in the in otherwise scale-less unitary problem.