We discuss the effects of a comptonizing corona on the appearance of the
reflection components, and in particular of the reflection hump, in the X-rays
spectra of accreting black holes. Indeed, in the framework of a thermal corona
model, we expect that part (or even all, depending on the coronal covering
factor) of the reflection features should cross the hot plasma, and thus suffer
Compton scattering, before being observed. We have studied in detail the
dependence of these effects on the physical (i.e. temperature and optical
depth) and geometrical (i.e. inclination angle) parameters of the corona,
concentrating on the slab geometry . Due to the smoothing and shifting towards
high energies of the comptonized reflection hump, the main effects on the
emerging spectra appear above 100 keV. We have also investigated the importance
of such effects on the interpretation of the results obtained with the standard
fitting procedures. We found that fitting Comptonization models, taking into
account comptonized reflection, by the usual cut-off power law + uncomptonized
reflection model, may lead to an underestimation of the reflection
normalization and an overestimation of the high energy cut-off. We discuss and
illustrate the importance of these effects by analysing recent observational
results as those of the galaxy NGC 4258. We also find that the comptonizing
corona can produce and/or emphasize correlations between the reflection
features characteristics (like the iron line equivalent width or the covering
fraction) and the X-ray spectral index similar to those recently reported in
the literature. We also underline the importance of these effects when dealing
with accurate spectral fitting of the X-ray background.