Constant envelope (CE) precoding is an appealing transmission technique which
enables the use of highly efficient power amplifiers (PAs). For CE precoding in
a single-user multiple-input single-output (MISO) channel, a desired
constellation is feasible at the receiver if and only if it can be scaled to
lie in an annulus, whose boundaries are characterized by the instantaneous
channel realization. Therefore, if a fixed receiver constellation is used for
CE precoding in fading channel, where the annulus is time-varying, there is in
general a non-zero probability of encountering a channel that makes CE
precoding infeasible. To tackle this problem, this paper studies the adaptive
receiver constellation design for CE precoding in a single-user MISO
flat-fading channel with an arbitrary number of antennas at the transmitter. We
first investigate the fixed-rate adaptive receiver constellation design to
minimize the symbol error rate (SER). Specifically, an efficient algorithm is
proposed to find the optimal two-ring amplitude-and-phase shift keying (APSK)
constellation that is both feasible and of the maximum minimum Euclidean
distance (MED), for any given constellation size and instantaneous channel
realization. Numerical results show that by using the optimized fixed-rate
adaptive receiver constellation, our proposed scheme achieves significantly
improved SER performance than CE precoding with fixed receiver constellation.
Moreover, with the PA efficiency gain achieved by CE precoding, our proposed
scheme requires less transmitter power consumption to achieve a desired SER
level than conventional linear precoding scheme under the less-stringent
average per-antenna power constraint (PAPC). Furthermore, based on the family
of optimal fixed-rate adaptive two-ring APSK constellation sets, a
variable-rate CE transmission scheme is proposed and numerically examined.