The KArlsruhe TRItium Neutrino (KATRIN) experiment aims at a measurement of
the neutrino mass with a 90 % confidence limit (C.L.) sensitivity of 0.2
eV/c$^2$ by measuring the endpoint region of the tritium $\beta$ decay spectrum
from a windowless gaseous molecular tritium source using an integrating
spectrometer of the MAC-E-Filter type. We discuss the idea of using the
MAC-E-Filter in a time-of-flight mode (MAC-E-TOF) in which the neutrino mass is
determined by a measurement of the electron time-of-flight (TOF) spectrum that
depends on the neutrino mass. MAC-E-TOF spectroscopy here is a very sensitive
method since the $\beta$-electrons are slowed down to distinguishable
velocities by the MAC-E-Filter. Their velocity depends strongly on their
surplus energy above the electric retarding potential. Using MAC-E-TOF, a
statistical sensitivity gain is expected. Because a small number of
retarding-potential settings is sufficient for a complete measurement, in
contrast to about 40 different retarding potentials used in the standard
MAC-E-Filter mode, there is a gain in measurement time and hence statistical
power. The improvement of the statistical uncertainty of the squared neutrino
mass has been determined by Monte Carlo simulation to be a factor 5 for an
ideal case neglecting background and timing uncertainty. Additionally, two
scenarios to determine the time-of-flight of the $\beta$-electrons are
discussed, which use the KATRIN detector for creating the stop signal and
different methods for obtaining a start signal. These comprise the hypothetical
case of an `electron tagger' which detects passing electrons with minimal
interference and the more realistic case of `gated filtering', where the
electron flux is periodically cut off by pulsing the pre-spectrometer
potential.