This paper presents the analysis of 3D evolution of solar wind density
turbulence and speed at various levels of solar activity between solar cycles
22 and 24. The solar wind data has been obtained from interplanetary
scintillation (IPS) measurements made at the Ooty Radio Telescope. Results show
that (i) on the average, there was a downward trend in density turbulence from
the maximum of cycle 22 to the deep minimum phase of cycle 23; (2) the
scattering diameter of the corona around the Sun shrunk steadily towards the
Sun, starting from 2003 to the smallest size at the deepest minimum, and it
corresponded to a reduction of ~50% in density turbulence between maximum and
minimum phases of cycle 23; (3) The latitudinal distribution of solar wind
speed was significantly different between minima of cycles 22 and 23. At the
minimum phase of solar cycle 22, when the underlying solar magnetic field was
simple and nearly dipole in nature, the high-speed streams were observed from
poles to ~30 deg. latitudes in both hemispheres. In contrast, in the long-decay
phase of cycle 23, the sources of high-speed wind at both poles, in accordance
with the weak polar fields, occupied narrow latitude belts from poles to ~60
deg. latitudes. Moreover, in agreement with the large amplitude of heliospheric
current sheet, the low-speed wind prevailed the low- and mid-latitude regions
of the heliosphere. (4) At the transition phase between cycles 23 and 24, the
high levels of density and density turbulence were observed close to the
heliospheric equator and the low-speed speed wind extended from equatorial- to
mid-latitude regions. Results are consistent with the onset of the current
cycle 24, from middle of 2009 and it has almost reached near to the maximum
phase at the northern hemisphere of the Sun, but activity not yet developed in
the southern hemisphere.