We examine the effects of photon bubble instability in radiation-dominated
accretion disks such as those found around black holes in active galactic
nuclei and X-ray binary star systems. Two- and 3-D numerical radiation MHD
calculations of small patches of disk are used. Modes with wavelengths shorter
than the gas pressure scale height grow faster than the orbital frequency in
the surface layers. The fastest growth rate observed is five times the orbital
frequency and occurs on nearly-vertical magnetic fields. The spectrum of linear
modes agrees with a WKB analysis indicating still faster growth at unresolved
scales, with a maximum proportional to the gravity and inversely proportional
to the gas sound speed. Disturbances reaching non-linear amplitudes steepen
into trains of shocks similar to a 1-D periodic non-linear analytic solution.
Variations in propagation speed result in merging of adjacent fronts, and over
time the shock spacing and amplitude increase. Growth is limited by the
strength of the field, and the structure is disrupted when the ram pressure
exceeds the magnetic pressure. The largest horizontal density variations are
similar to the ratio of magnetic to gas pressure, and in our calculations are
more than 100. Under the conditions considered, radiation diffuses through the
inhomogeneneous flow 5x faster than through the initial hydrostatic
equilibrium, and the net cooling rate is several times greater than in a
similar calculation without magnetic fields showing the effects of convection.
These results indicate photon bubbles may be important in cooling
radiation-dominated disks.