We present an analysis of photometric and spectroscopic observations of the
symbiotic binary system RX Pup with the aims of developing a reliable binary
for the system and identifying mechanisms responsible for its spectacular
activity. The binary is composed of a long-perod Mira variable surrounded by a
thick dust shell and a hot white dwarf companion. The hot component produces
practically all activity observed in the UV, optical and radio range, while
variable obscuration of the Mira by circumstellar dust is responsible for
long-term changes in the near-IR magnitudes. The observations show RX Pup
underwent a nova-like eruption during the last three decades. The hot component
contracted in radius at roughly constant luminosity from 1975 to 1986, and was
the source of a strong stellar wind which prevented it from accreting material
lost in the Mira wind. Around 1988/9 the hot component turned over in the HR
diagram and by 1991 its luminosity had faded by a factor of about 30 with
respect to the maximum plateau value and the hot wind had practically ceased.
By 1995 the nova remnant started to accrete material from the Mira wind, as
indicated by a general increase in intensity of the optical continuum and HI
emission. The quiescent spectrum resembles the quiescent spectra of symbiotic
recurrent novae, and its intensity indicates the hot component must accrete as
much as about 1 per cent of the Mira wind, which is more or less the amount
predicted by Bondi-Hoyle theory. The earliest observational records from the
1890s suggest that another nova-like eruption of RX Pup occurred around 1894.