The classical Remez inequality bounds the maximum of the absolute value of a
polynomial $P(x)$ of degree $d$ on $[-1,1]$ through the maximum of its absolute
value on any subset $Z$ of positive measure in $[-1,1]$. It was shown in
\cite{Yom3} that the Lebesgue measure in the Remez inequality can be replaced
by a certain geometric invariant $\omega_d(Z)$ which can be effectively
estimated in terms of the metric entropy of $Z$ and which may be nonzero for
discrete and even finite sets $Z$.
  In the present paper we first obtain an essentially sharp Remez-type
inequality in the spirit of \cite{Yom3} for complex polynomials of one
variable, introducing metric invariants $c_d(Z)$ and $\o_{cd}(Z)$ for an
arbitrary subset $Z\subset D_1\subset {\mathbb C}$. These invariants translate
into the the metric language the classical Cartan lemma (see \cite{Gor} and
references therein).
  Next we introduce $(s,p)$-valent functions, which provide a natural
generalization of $p$-valent ones (see \cite{Hay} and references therein). We
prove a "distortion theorem" for such functions, comparing them with
polynomials sharing their zeroes. On this base we extend to $(s,p)$-valent
functions our polynomial Remez-type inequality.
  As the main example we consider restrictions $g$ of polynomials of a growing
degree to a fixed algebraic curve, for which we obtain an essentially sharp
"local" Remez-type inequality, stressing the role of the geometry of
singularities of $g$.
  Finally, we obtain for such functions $g$ a "global" Remez-type inequality
which is valid for all the branches of $g$ and involves both the geometry of
singularities of $g$ and its monodromy.