We conduct a statistical analysis of a combined sample of direct imaging
data, totalling nearly 250 stars. The stars cover a wide range of ages and
spectral types, and include five detections ($\kappa$ And b, two $\sim$60
M$_{\rm J}$ brown dwarf companions in the Pleiades, PZ Tel B, and CD$-$35
2722B). For some analyses we add a currently unpublished set of SEEDS
observations, including the detections GJ 504b and GJ 758B. We conduct a
uniform, Bayesian analysis of all stellar ages using both membership in a
kinematic moving group and activity/rotation age indicators. We then present a
new statistical method for computing the likelihood of a substellar
distribution function. By performing most of the integrals analytically, we
achieve an enormous speedup over brute-force Monte Carlo. We use this method to
place upper limits on the maximum semimajor axis of the distribution function
derived from radial-velocity planets, finding model-dependent values of
$\sim$30--100 AU. Finally, we model the entire substellar sample, from massive
brown dwarfs to a theoretically motivated cutoff at $\sim$5 M$_{\rm Jup}$, with
a single power law distribution. We find that $p(M, a) \propto M^{-0.65\pm0.60}
a^{-0.85\pm0.39}$ (1$\sigma$ errors) provides an adequate fit to our data, with
1.0--3.1\% (68\% confidence) of stars hosting 5--70 $M_{\rm Jup}$ companions
between 10 and 100 AU. This suggests that many of the directly imaged
exoplanets known, including most (if not all) of the low-mass companions in our
sample, formed by fragmentation in a cloud or disk, and represent the low-mass
tail of the brown dwarfs.