We present two-dimensional spectroscopy of the extremely metal-deficient blue
compact dwarf (BCD) galaxy SBS 0335-052E aiming to studyphysical conditions,
element abundances and kinematical properties of the ionised gas in this
galaxy. Observations were obtained in the spectral range 3620-9400A with the
imaging spectrograph GIRAFFE installed on the UT2 of the Very Large Telescope
(VLT). These observations are the first ones carried out so far with GIRAFFE in
the ARGUS mode which allows to obtain simultaneously 308 spectra covering a
11.4"x7.3" region. We produced images of SBS 0335-052E in the continuum and in
emission lines of different stages of excitation. We find that while the
maximum of emission in the majority of lines, including the strong lines Hbeta
4861A, Halpha 6563A, [OIII] 4363,5007A, [OII] 3726,3729A, coincides with the
youngest south-eastern star clusters 1 and 2, the emission of HeII 4686A line
is offset to the more evolved north-west clusters 4,5. This suggests that hard
ionising radiation responsible for the HeII 4686A emission is not related to
the most massive youngest stars, but rather is connected with fast radiative
shocks. This conclusion is supported by the kinematical properties of the
ionised gas from the different emission lines as the velocity dispersion in the
HeII 4686A line is systematically higher, by ~50%-100%, than that in other
lines. The variations of the emission line profiles suggest the presence of an
ionised gas outflow in the direction perpendicular to the galaxy disk.
(abridged)