In this paper, we present several mathematical properties that the solutions
to Darcy and Darcy-Brinkman equations satisfy. These properties can serve as
robust a posteriori error estimation techniques to verify numerical solutions
for these equations. The mathematical properties include the total minimum
mechanical power, the minimum dissipation theorem, a reciprocal relation, and a
maximum principle for the vorticity. In particular, we show that, for a given
set of boundary conditions, Darcy velocity has the minimum total mechanical
power of all the kinematically admissible vector fields. We will also show that
a similar result holds for a Darcy-Brinkman velocity. We also show that for a
conservative body force, the Darcy velocity and the Darcy-Brinkman velocity
have the minimum total dissipation among their respective kinematically
admissible vector fields. Using numerical examples, we show that the minimum
dissipation theorem can be utilized identify pollution errors in numerical
solutions. We then show that the solutions to Darcy and Darcy-Brinkman
equations satisfy a reciprocal relation, which has the potential to identify
errors in the numerical implementation of boundary conditions. We also show
that the vorticity under both steady and transient Darcy-Brinkman equations
satisfy maximum principles if the body force is conservative body force and the
permeability is homogeneous and isotropic. A discussion on the nature of
vorticity under steady and transient Darcy equations is also presented. Using
several numerical examples, we will demonstrate the predictive capabilities of
the proposed a posteriori techniques in assessing the accuracy of numerical
solutions for a general class of problems, which could involve complex domains
and general computational grids.