We propose an explanation for the far-infrared/radio correlation of galaxies
in terms of the energy balance of the interstellar medium and determine the
flux from high-energy photons and neutrinos from starburst galaxies. We present
a catalog of the 127 brightest starburst galaxies with redshifts of z<0.03. In
order to investigate the correlation between radio- and far-infrared emission,
we apply the leaky box approximation. Further, we derive photon- and neutrino
spectra from proton-proton interactions in supernova remnants (SNRs). Here, we
assume that a fraction of the SNR's energy is transferred to the acceleration
of cosmic rays. We also investigate the possibility of detecting Gamma Ray
Bursts from nearby starburst galaxies, using the catalog defined here. We show
that the radio emission is only weakly dependent on the magnetic field. It
turns out that the intensity of the radio signal is directly proportional to
the number of supernova explosions, which scales with the far-infrared
luminosity. In addition, we find that high-energy photons from proton-proton
interactions in SNRs in starbursts can make up several percent of the diffuse
gamma-ray background. The neutrino flux from the same sources has a maximum
energy of ~1e5 GeV. Neutrinos can, on the other hand, can be observed if a
Gamma Ray Burst happens in a nearby starburst. About 0.03 GRBs per year are
expected to occur in the entire catalog. The true number is expected to be even
higher, since we only include the brightest sources. The number of events per
burst in IceCube varies between about one event and more than 1000 events. This
provides good prospects for IceCube to detect a significant event, since the
background for a GRB search is close to zero.