Recently, IceCube found evidence for a diffuse signal of astrophysical
neutrinos in an energy range of $60\,\mathrm{TeV}$ to the $\mathrm{PeV}$-scale.
The origin of those events, being a key to understanding the origin of cosmic
rays, is still an unsolved question. So far, analyses have not succeeded to
resolve the diffuse signal into point-like sources. Searches including a
maximum-likelihood-ratio test, based on the reconstructed directions and
energies of the detected down- and up-going neutrino candidates, were also
performed on IceCube data leading to the exclusion of bright point sources. In
this paper, we present two methods to search for faint neutrino point sources
in three years of IceCube data, taken between 2008 and 2011. The first method
is an autocorrelation test, applied separately to the northern and southern
sky. The second method is a multipole analysis, which expands the measured data
in the northern hemisphere into spherical harmonics and uses the resulting
expansion coefficients to separate signal from background. With both methods,
the results are consistent with the background expectation with a slightly more
sparse spatial distribution, corresponding to an underfluctuation. Depending on
the assumed number of sources, the resulting upper limit on the flux per source
in the northern hemisphere for an $E^{-2}$ energy spectrum ranges from $1.5
\cdot 10^{-8}\,\mathrm{GeV}/(\mathrm{cm}^2 \mathrm{s})$, in the case of one
assumed source, to $4 \cdot 10^{-10} \,\mathrm{GeV}/(\mathrm{cm}^2
\mathrm{s})$, in the case of $3500$ assumed sources.