UHECR (Ultra High Energy Cosmic Rays) were expected to be protons, to fly
straight and to suffer from a GZK (opacity on CMB radiation) cut off. AUGER
suggested in 2007 that such early UHECR anisotropy was compatible with the
foreseen Super-Galactic plane, while both HIRES and AUGER confirmed this
apparent GZK cut-off in the spectra. However, the same AUGER composition since
2007 had favored nuclei (and not nucleons). The recent absence of narrow angle
clustering in UHECR maps, as it should be expected for protons, the missing of
events along the nearest Cluster Virgo, the wide spread (nearly 16 degree
angle) of UHECR along Cen A are in disagreement with the first proton-UHECR
AUGER understanding. Since 2008 we had claimed a light nuclei role for the Cen
A crowded area. However the ICECUBE absence of TeV neutrino clustering or
anisotropy, its spectra steepening favors mostly a ruling atmospheric neutrino
noise up to tens TeV. However two recent PeV neutrino event, cannot easily
coexist or been extrapolated with such an atmospheric ruling scenario, or with
GZK (either nucleons or nuclei) secondary expected spectra. Finally tens of TeV
gamma anisotropy in ARGO-MILAGRO-ICECUBE maps may hardly be associated with
known hadronic sources. We imagine such anisotropy ruled by diffused gamma
secondaries, shining along UHECR bending and flight: radioactive (Ni,Co,Al,D,
neutron) light and heavy UHECR nuclei in GRB-SGRs-jet, while scattering or
decaying in flight, may paint in the sky (by gamma, electrons and neutrinos
secondaries) their trajectories and bending, connecting UHECR spread events
with TeV anisotropy, and also offering a very realistic source of first,
otherwise puzzling, observed PeV neutrinos. Evidences for such relativistic Ni
jet in 4U1630-47 system has been observed recently by D\'iaz Trigo
collaboration.