An impedance spectroscopy (IS) is a versatile tool to study the effect of
grains (bulk), grain boundaries and electrode-electrolyte interface on
dielectric and electrical properties of electro-ceramics. This study only
focuses the high frequency (1 kHz to 10 MHz) probe of bulk ferroelectric
capacitance near ferroelectric phase transition temperature (FPTT). The PZTFW
single phase and PZTFW-CFO composites, respectively, have been investigated to
understand the microstructure-property relation. Keeping in mind the complex
microstructure of both systems, low frequency ( less than 1 kHZ ) impedance
investigation, which basically deals with grain boundaries and
electrode-interfaces, has been ignored. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns,
microstructures, dielectric spectra, and impedance plots revealed two distinct
phases, inbuilt compressive strain, small shift in dielectric maximum
temperature, and two activation energy regions, respectively, in PZTFW-CFO
composite compare to PZTFW ceramic. Addition of CFO in PZTFW medium purified
the impurity phases present in the PZTFW matrix. The PZTFW-CFO composite shows
flat dielectric behavior and high dielectric constant near FPTT at high
frequency may be useful for tunable dielectric capacitors. The changes in bulk
capacitance, relaxation time and constant phase element parameters have probed
in the proximity of FPTT regions. Nyquist plot and modulus formalism show a
poly-dispersive nature of relaxation, relate the activation energy (Ea) of
oxygen vacancies, mainly responsible for the bulk capacitive conduction. A
spiral kind of modulus spectra was observed at elevated temperatures and
frequencies (greater than 2 MHz) suggests the possible experimental artifacts,
have no physical reasons to explain.