The structure and the dielectric properties of Pb(Zn1/3Nb2/3)O3 (PZN) crystal
have been investigated by means of high-resolution synchrotron x-ray
diffraction (with an x-ray energy of 32 keV) and dielectric spectroscopy (in
the frequency range of 100 Hz - 1 MHz). At high temperatures, the PZN crystal
exhibits a cubic symmetry and polar nanoregions inherent to relaxor
ferroelectrics are present, as evidenced by the single (222) Bragg peak and by
the noticeable tails at the basis of the peak. At low temperatures, in addition
to the well-known rhombohedral phase, another low-symmetry, probably
ferroelectric, phase is found. The two phases coexist in the form of mesoscopic
domains. The para- to ferroelectric phase transition is diffused and observed
between 325 and 390 K, where the concentration of the low-temperature phases
gradually increases and the cubic phase disappears upon cooling. However, no
dielectric anomalies can be detected in the temperature range of diffuse phase
transition. The temperature dependence of the dielectric constant show the
maximum at higher temperature (Tm = 417 - 429 K, depending on frequency) with
the typical relaxor dispersion at T < Tm and the frequency dependence of Tm
fitted to the Vogel-Fulcher relation. Application of an electric field upon
cooling from the cubic phase or poling the crystal in the ferroelectric phase
gives rise to a sharp anomaly of the dielectric constant at T 390 K and
diminishes greatly the dispersion at lower temperatures, but the dielectric
relaxation process around Tm remains qualitatively unchanged. The results are
discussed in the framework of the present models of relaxors and in comparison
with the prototypical relaxor ferroelectric Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3.