XMM-Newton observations of the bright Seyfert 1.9 galaxy MCG-5-23-16 have
revealed a broad FeKalpha emission line which is nearly symmetric in contrast
to the broad and red-shifted asymmetric FeKalpha line sometimes observed from
Seyfert 1 galaxies. The FeKalpha line has two distinct components - a narrow
unresolved component with equivalent width of 40 eV and a broad component with
full width at half maximum of 40000 km/s and equivalent width of 120 eV. An
absorption feature at 7.1 keV has also been observed. The energies of the
emission and absorption features are consistent with those arising from neutral
iron. The broad component is consistent with an FeKalpha emission line expected
from a relativistic accretion disk around a Schwarzschild or a Kerr black hole.
Alternatively, most of the flux in the broad component could also be modeled as
reflection emission which mimics emission line like feature due to the presence
of iron K-shell edge at 7.1eV, however, the reflection fraction is much higher
than that inferred from the BeppoSax observations. The disk inclination angle
of about 47 deg, inferred from the disk-line fits, and the absorption column of
about 10^{22} cm^{-2}, inferred from the low-energy spectral curvature due to
photoelectric absorption, suggest that our line of sight passes through the
outer edge of a putative torus and are consistent with those expected for a
Seyfert 1.9 galaxy falling within the unification scheme. The strength of the
narrow iron Kalpha emission and the optical depth of the iron K absorption edge
suggest their origin in the putative torus with N_H about 10^{24} cm^{-2} in
the inner regions and N_H about 10^{22} cm^{-2} in the outer edges.