We present a detailed multi-wavelength study of the M6.2 flare which was
associated with a confined eruption of a prominence using TRACE, RHESSI, and
NoRH observations. The pre-flare phase of this event is characterized by
spectacular large-scale contraction of overlying extreme ultraviolet (EUV)
coronal loops during which the loop system was subjected to an altitude
decrease of ~20 Mm for an extended span of ~30 min. This contraction phase is
accompanied by sequential EUV brightenings associated with hard X-ray (HXR) (up
to 25 keV) and microwave (MW) sources from low-lying loops in the core of the
flaring region which together with X-ray spectra indicate strong localized
heating in the source region before the filament activation and associated
M-class flare. With the onset of the impulsive phase of the M6.2 flare, we
detect HXR and MW sources that exhibit intricate temporal and spatial evolution
in relation with the fast rise of the prominence. Following the flare maximum,
the filament eruption slowed down and subsequently confined within the large
overlying active region loops; the event did not lead to a coronal mass
ejection (CME). During the confinement process of the erupting prominence, we
detect MW emission from the extended coronal region with multiple emission
centroids which likely represent emission from hot blobs of plasma formed after
the collapse of the expanding flux rope and entailing prominence material.
RHESSI observations reveal high plasma temperature (~30 MK) and substantial
non-thermal characteristics with electron spectral index (~5) during the
impulsive phase of the flare. The time-evolution of thermal energy exhibits a
good correspondence with the variations in cumulative non-thermal energy which
suggest that the energy of accelerated particles efficiently converted to hot
flare plasma implying an effective validation of the Neupert effect.