The magnetorotational instability (MRI) can be a powerful mechanism
amplifying the magnetic field in core collapse supernovae. However, whether
initially weak magnetic fields can be amplified by this instability to
dynamically relevant strengths is still a matter of active scientific debate.
One of the main uncertainties concerns the process that terminates the growth
of the instability. Parasitic instabilities of both Kelvin-Helmholtz (KH) and
tearing-mode type have been suggested to play a crucial role in this process,
disrupting MRI channel flows and quenching magnetic field amplification. We
performed two-dimensional and three-dimensional sheering-disc simulations of a
differentially rotating proto-neutron star layer in non-ideal MHD with
unprecedented high numerical resolution. Our simulations show that KH parasitic
modes dominate tearing modes in the regime of large hydrodynamic and magnetic
Reynolds numbers, as encountered in proto-neutron stars. They also determine
the maximum magnetic field stress achievable during the exponential growth of
the MRI. Our results are consistent with the theory of parasitic instabilities
based on a local stability analysis. To simulate the KH instabilities properly
a very high numerical resolution is necessary. Using 9th order spatial
reconstruction schemes, we find that at least $8$ grid zones per MRI channel
are necessary to simulate the growth phase of the MRI and reach an accuracy of
$\sim 10\%$ in the growth rate, while more than $\sim 60$ zones per channel are
required to achieve convergent results (errors $\lesssim 10\%$) for the value
of the magnetic stress at MRI termination. The assumption of axisymmetry
hinders the development of the KH instability and results in artificially large
magnetic stresses at MRI termination. These numerical requirements impose
strong restrictions on future global simulations of the scenario.