We investigate local and global properties of timelike geodesics in three
static spherically symmetric spacetimes. These properties are of its own
mathematical relevance and provide a solution of the physical `twin paradox'
problem. The latter means that we focus our studies on the search of the
longest timelike geodesics between two given points. Due to problems with
solving the geodesic deviation equation we restrict our investigations to
radial and circular (if exist) geodesics. On these curves we find general
Jacobi vector fields, determine by means of them sequences of conjugate points
and with the aid of the comoving coordinate system and the spherical symmetry
we determine the cut points. These notions identify segments of radial and
circular gepdesics which are locally or globally of maximal length. In de
Sitter spacetime all geodesics are globally maximal. In CAdS and
Bertotti--Robinson spacetimes the radial geodesics which infinitely many times
oscillate between antipodal points in the space contain infinite number of
equally separated conjugate points and there are no other cut points. Yet in
these two spacetimes each outgoing or ingoing radial geodesic which does not
cross the centre is globally of maximal length. Circular geodesics exist only
in CAdS spacetime and contain an infinite sequence of equally separated
conjugate points. The geodesic curves which intersect the circular ones at
these points may either belong to the two-surface $\theta=\pi/2$ or lie outside
it.