We report on the highly variable and erratic long-term X-ray luminosity
behavior of the only known accretion-driven millisecond X-ray pulsar SAX
J1808.4-3658 during its 2000 outburst, as observed with RXTE. The maximum
observed luminosity is ~2.5 x 10^35 erg s^-1 (3-25 keV; for a distance of 2.5
kpc), which is a factor of ~10 lower than that observed during the 1996 and
1998 outbursts. Due to solar constraints, the source could not be observed for
several months with RXTE before 21 Jan. 2000. Therefore, the exact moment of
the outburst onset is unknown and the peak luminosity could have been
significantly higher. On some occasions SAX J1808.4-3658 was observed with
luminosities of ~10^35 erg s^-1, but on other occasions it could not be
detected with RXTE resulting in upper limits of a few times 10^33 erg s^-1
(3-25 keV). The non-detections of the source during its 2000 outburst obtained
with BeppoSAX demonstrate that its luminosity was at times <10^32 erg s^-1
(0.5-10 keV). However, only a few days after these BeppoSAX observations, we
detected the source again with RXTE at high luminosities, giving a factor of
>1000 of luminosity swings in this system on time scales of days. The last
detection of SAX J1808.4-3658 with RXTE was on 2000 May 13, almost 4 months
after the first detection. Due to the lack of sensitivity and observations
during the 1996 and 1998 outbursts, it cannot be excluded that after those
outbursts the source remained active for months and that the source behavior
during the 2000 outburst is not unique. Long duration activity at low
luminosities has been observed in other transients (both neutron stars and
black holes), although not with such extreme variability which might point to a
different origin for this behavior for the pulsar.