The projective space of order $n$ over a finite field $\F_q$ is a set of all
subspaces of the vector space $\F_q^{n}$. In this work, we consider
error-correcting codes in the projective space, focusing mainly on constant
dimension codes. We start with the different representations of subspaces in
the projective space. These representations involve matrices in reduced row
echelon form, associated binary vectors, and Ferrers diagrams. Based on these
representations, we provide a new formula for the computation of the distance
between any two subspaces in the projective space. We examine lifted maximum
rank distance (MRD) codes, which are nearly optimal constant dimension codes.
We prove that a lifted MRD code can be represented in such a way that it forms
a block design known as a transversal design. The incidence matrix of the
transversal design derived from a lifted MRD code can be viewed as a
parity-check matrix of a linear code in the Hamming space. We find the
properties of these codes which can be viewed also as LDPC codes. We present
new bounds and constructions for constant dimension codes. First, we present a
multilevel construction for constant dimension codes, which can be viewed as a
generalization of a lifted MRD codes construction. This construction is based
on a new type of rank-metric codes, called Ferrers diagram rank-metric codes.
Then we derive upper bounds on the size of constant dimension codes which
contain the lifted MRD code, and provide a construction for two families of
codes, that attain these upper bounds. We generalize the well-known concept of
a punctured code for a code in the projective space to obtain large codes which
are not constant dimension. We present efficient enumerative encoding and
decoding techniques for the Grassmannian. Finally we describe a search method
for constant dimension lexicodes.