We seek here to unify the second law of thermodynamics with the other laws,
or at least to put up a law behind the second law of thermodynamics. Assuming
no fine tuning, concretely by a random Hamiltonian, we argue just from
equations of motion -- but {\em without} second law -- that entropy cannot go
first up and then down again except with the rather strict restriction
S_{large} \le S_{small 1} + S_{small 2}. Here S_{large} is the "large" entropy
in the middle era while S_{small 1} and S_{small 2} are the entropies at
certain times before and after the S_{large} - era respectively. From this
theorem of "no strong maximum for the entropy" a cyclic time S^1 model world
could have entropy at the most varying by a factor two and would not be
phenomenologically realistic. With an open ended time axis (-\infty, \infty)
={\bf R} some law behind the second law of thermodynamics is needed if we do
not obtain as the most likely happening that the entropy is maximal (i.e. the
heat death having already occurred from the start). We express such a law
behind the second law -- or unification of second law with the other ones -- by
assigning a probability weight $P$ for finding the world/the system in various
places in phase space. In such a model $P$ is almost unified with the rest as P
= exp (-2 ~S_{Im}) with S_{Im} going in as the imaginary part of the action. We
derive quite naturally the second law for practical purposes, a Big Bang with
two sided time directions and a need for a bottom in the Hamiltonian density.
Assuming the cosmological constant is a dynamical variable in the sense that it
is counted as "initial condition" we even solve in our model the cosmological
constant problem \underline{without} any allusion to anthropic principle.