We present radio, optical and X-ray detected counterparts to the sub-mm
sources found using SCUBA in the Hubble Deep Field North region (GOODS-N). A
new counterpart identification statistic is developed to identify properties of
galaxies detected at other wavelengths that can be used to aid counterpart
identification. We discriminate between criteria that can be used to pre-select
sub-mm bright objects, and those that identify the counterpart to a known
sub-mm object. Optically faint galaxies detected in the deepest 1.4 GHz radio
continuum maps are the only effective way of pre-selecting SCUBA galaxies, and
radio sources are the best way to identify counterparts to known sub-mm
detections. Looking at radio spectral indices, only the steeper sources
(indicative of star formation) are detected in the sub-mm. Although we find
several X-ray identifications, we show that deep Chandra images do not
contribute to counterpart identifications, since in all cases they are already
detected in the more easily obtained VLA radio maps. We also find find no
evidence for clustering between Chandra and SCUBA sources in this field. For a
known SCUBA position, the reddest source tends to be the correct association,
although we can find no cut on colour, magnitude, or clustering property that
efficiently pre-selects for SCUBA sources. 15 micron ISO sources are
statistically detected by SCUBA, but the limiting mid-IR flux is not low enough
to provide useful constraints. We present postage stamp strips for each SCUBA
detection in separate bands from X-ray to radio, providing direct visual
evidence that approximately half of the sub-mm sources in this field remain
unidentified, despite an abundance of deep multi-wavelength data.