As part of the SDSS-IV the extended Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey
(eBOSS) will perform measurements of the cosmological distance scale via
application of the Baryon Acoustic Oscillation (BAO) method to samples of
quasars and galaxies. Quasar surveys are particularly useful in the BAO context
as they can trace extremely large volumes back to moderately high redshift.
eBOSS will adopt two approaches to target quasars over a 7500 sq. deg. area.
First, z > 2.1 quasars will be targeted to improve BAO measurements in the
Lyman-Alpha Forest. Second, a homogeneously selected "CORE" sample of quasars
at 0.9 < z < 2.2 will be targeted to yield the first few-%-level BAO constraint
near z~1.5. eBOSS CORE quasar targeting will combine optical selection in ugriz
using a likelihood-based routine called XDQSOz, with a mid-IR-optical
color-cut. A spectroscopic survey of ~300 sq. deg. of eBOSS targets shows that
eBOSS CORE selection (to g < 22 OR r < 22) should return ~70 per sq. deg. 0.9 <
z < 2.2 quasars and ~7 per sq. deg. z > 2.1 quasars. A supplemental selection
based on variability of quasars in multi-epoch imaging from the Palomar
Transient Factory should recover an additional ~3-4 per sq. deg. z > 2.1
quasars to g < 22.5. Regression tests demonstrate that a linear model of the
effects of imaging systematics on target density can recover the angular
distribution of CORE quasars over 96.7% (76.7%) of the SDSS North (South)
Galactic Cap area. eBOSS is completely robust to changes in quasar target
density due to imprecision in imaging zero points. Beyond its key cosmological
goals, eBOSS should be the next-generation quasar survey, ultimately comprising
> 500,000 new spectroscopically confirmed quasars and > 500,000 uniformly
selected spectroscopically confirmed 0.9 < z < 2.2 quasars. At the conclusion
of SDSS-IV, the SDSS will have provided unique spectra of over 800,000 quasars.