Observations and modeling for the light curve (LC) and spectra of supernova
(SN) 2005bf are reported. This SN showed unique features: the LC had two
maxima, and declined rapidly after the second maximum, while the spectra showed
strengthening He lines whose velocity increased with time. The double-peaked LC
can be reproduced by a double-peaked $^{56}$Ni distribution, with most
$^{56}$Ni at low velocity and a small amount at high velocity. The rapid
post-maximum decline requires a large fraction of the $\gamma$-rays to escape
from the $^{56}$Ni-dominated region, possibly because of low-density ``holes''.
The presence of Balmer lines in the spectrum suggests that the He layer of the
progenitor was substantially intact. Increasing $\gamma$-ray deposition in the
He layer due to enhanced $\gamma$-ray escape from the $^{56}$Ni-dominated
region may explain both the delayed strengthening and the increasing velocity
of the He lines. The SN has massive ejecta ($\sim6-7\Msun$), normal kinetic
energy ($\sim 1.0-1.5\times 10^{51}$ ergs), high peak bolometric luminosity
($\sim 5\times 10^{42}$ erg s$^{-1}$) for an epoch as late as $\sim$ 40 days,
and a large $^{56}$Ni mass ($\sim0.32\Msun$). These properties, and the
presence of a small amount of H suggest that the progenitor was initially
massive (M$\sim 25-30 \Msun$) and had lost most of its H envelope, and was
possibly a WN star. The double-peaked $^{56}$Ni distribution suggests that the
explosion may have formed jets that did not reach the He layer. The properties
of SN 2005bf resemble those of the explosion of Cassiopeia A.