We have studied using the KLUN sample of 5171 spiral galaxies having
Tully-Fisher distance moduli, the average radial space distribution of galaxies
out to a distance of about 200 Mpc (for H_0=50 km/s/Mpc). One motivation came
from the current debate on the fractal dimension D and maximum scale of
fractality. To study this question, we used a new method based on photometric
TF distances, independent of redshift, to construct the number density
distribution. Our main results are:
  (1) While scattered below about 20 Mpc, at larger distances the radial
distribution starts to follow, in terms of distance modulus mu_TF, the law log
N = 0.46 mu + const., using diameter TF relation, and log N = 0.40 mu + const.
for magnitudes. These are the predictions based on fractal dimensions 2.3 and
2.0, respectively. These radial density gradients are valid up to the limits of
KLUN, or about 200 Mpc.
  (2) We have tried to understand the derived radial density behaviour as a
result of some bias in KLUN or our analysis, however, without success.
Numerical simulations have shown that the method itself works. If the density
law is caused by incompleteness in the diameter limited KLUN sample, then the
incompleteness should start at widely different angular diameters d_25 for
different values of rotation parameter log V_M, which would be quite
unexpected.
  (3) If correlation studies favoring long scale fractality (200 Mpc or more)
and D ~ 2 are correct, the position of our Galaxy would be close to average in
the Universe, with the galaxy density decreasing around us according to the
expected law.