Assuming a Salpeter initial mass function and taking the solar abundances as
a representative sample, we explore the sensitivity of nucleosynthesis in
massive stars to the truncation of supernova explosions above a certain mass.
It is assumed that stars of all masses contribute to nucleosynthesis by their
pre-explosive winds, but above a certain limiting main sequence mass, the
presupernova star becomes a black hole and ejects nothing more. The solar
abundances from oxygen to atomic mass 90 are fit quite well assuming no cut-off
at all, i.e., by assuming all stars up to 120 solar masses make successful
supernovae. Little degradation in the fit occurs if the upper limit is reduced
to 25 solar masses. The limit can be further reduced, but the required event
rate of supernovae in the remaining range rises rapidly to compensate for the
lost nucleosynthesis of the more massive stars. The nucleosynthesis of the
s-process declines precipitously and the production of species made in the
winds, e.g., carbon, becomes unacceptably large compared with elements made in
the explosion, e.g., silicon and oxygen. However, by varying uncertain physics,
especially the mass loss rate for massive stars and the rate for the neon-22 to
magnesium-25 reaction rate, acceptable nucleosynthesis might still be achieved
with a cutoff as low as 18 solar masses. This would require a supernova
frequency three times greater than the fiducial value obtained when all stars
explode in order to produce the required oxygen-16. The nucleosynthesis of
iron-60 and aluminum-26 is also examined.