We probe the possibility that Centaurus A (Cen A) is a point source of
ultra-high energy cosmic rays (UHECR) observed by PAO, through the statistical
analysis of the arrival direction distribution. For this purpose, we set up the
Cen A dominance model for the UHECR sources, in which Cen A contributes the
fraction $f_{\rm C}$ of the whole UHECR with energy above
$5.5\times10^{19}\,{\rm eV}$ and the isotropic background contributes the
remaining $1-f_{\rm C}$ fraction. The effect of the intergalactic magnetic
fields on the bending of the trajectory of Cen A originated UHECR is
parameterized by the gaussian smearing angle $\theta_s$. Using the
correlational angular distance distribution (CADD), we identify the excess of
UHECR in the Cen A direction and fit the CADD of the observed PAO data by
varying two parameters $f_{\rm C}$ and $\theta_s$ of the Cen A dominance model.
The best-fit parameter values are $f_{\rm C}\approx0.1$ (The corresponding Cen
A fraction observed at PAO is $f_{\rm C,PAO}\approx0.15$, that is, about 10 out
of 69 UHECR.) and $\theta_s=5^\circ$ with the maximum probability $P_{\rm
max}=0.29$. Considering the uncertainty concerning the assumption of isotropic
background in the Cen A dominance model, we extend the viable parameter ranges
to the $2\sigma$ band, $0.09\lesssim f_{\rm C,PAO}\lesssim 0.25$ and
$0^\circ\lesssim \theta_s\lesssim 20^\circ$. This result supports the existence
of a point source extended by the intergalactic magnetic fields in the
direction of Cen A. If Cen A is actually the source responsible for the
observed excess of UHECR, the average deflection angle of the excess UHECR
implies the order of $10\,{\rm nG}$ intergalactic magnetic field in the
vicinity of Cen A.