Aims. A long timeline kinematic study of the archetypal CSO OQ 208 sheds
light on the physical properties of the most compact radio sources.
  Methods. Archival data from the VLBA at 15 GHz over a time span of 13.6 yr
are used to investigate the kinematics of the radio source. The flux density
monitoring data obtained at the Michigan 26-meter radio telescope are also used
as supplementary information.
  Results. At 8.4 and 15 GHz, the two lobes are resolved into two
sub-components, identified as hotspots. A knotty jet is linked with the NE
hotspot and traces back toward the geometric center. The core is too weak to be
detected. Significant flux density variation is found in the primary hotspots
with the maximum level of 62% (NE1) and 19% (SW1). The peak in the flux density
of NE1 leads that of SW1 by approximately 5.00 yr, suggesting that the
northeast lobe is advancing and the southwest lobe is receding. This light
travel difference indicates a radial distance difference between the two
hotspots of 1.53 pc, which indicates an inclination angle of about 80.8 degree
between the radio jet and the line of sight. The angular separation rate
between NE1 and SW1 is 0.027 mas/yr (or 0.133 c). The inner jet knot moves at
0.047 mas/yr (or 0.230 c), about 3.5 times the hotspot advancing speed.
  Conclusions. The large viewing angle and the modest jet speed suggest a
mildly relativistic jet. The jet axis is close to the plane of the sky. The
separation rate and the distance between the two primary hotspots result in a
kinematic age of 255$\pm$17 yr, confirming that OQ 208 is indeed a young radio
source. In addition to the hotspot advancing motions, sideways motions provide
evidence that the lobes are obstructed by the external interstellar medium.