We construct revised near-infrared absolute magnitude calibrations for 126
Galactic Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars at known distances, based in part upon recent
large scale spectroscopic surveys. Application to 246 WR stars located in the
field, permits us to map their galactic distribution. As anticipated, WR stars
generally lie in the thin disk (~40pc half width at half maximum) between
galactocentric radii 3.5-10kpc, in accordance with other star formation
tracers. We highlight 12 WR stars located at vertical distances of >300pc from
the midplane. Analysis of the radial variation in WR subtypes exposes a
ubiquitously higher N_{WC}/N_{WN} ratio than predicted by stellar evolutionary
models accounting for rotation. Models for non-rotating stars or accounting for
close binary evolution are more consistent with observations. We consolidate
information acquired about the known WR content of the Milky Way to build a
simple model of the complete population. We derive observable quantities over a
range of wavelengths, allowing us to estimate a total number of 1200(+300,-100)
Galactic WR stars, implying an average duration of ~0.25Myr for the WR phase at
the current Milky Way star formation rate. Of relevance to future spectroscopic
surveys, we use this model WR population to predict follow-up spectroscopy to
K_S ~ 13 mag will be necessary to identify 95% of Galactic WR stars. We
anticipate that ESA's Gaia mission will make few additional WR star discoveries
via low-resolution spectroscopy, though will significantly refine existing
distance determinations. Appendix A provides a complete inventory of 322
Galactic WR stars discovered since the VIIth catalogue (313 including Annex),
including a revised nomenclature scheme.