The cosmic star formation histories are evaluated for different minimum
masses of the initial halo structures, with allowance for realistic gas
outflows. With a minimum halo mass of 10^{7} - 10^{8} M_odot and a moderate
outflow efficiency, we reproduce both the current baryon fraction and the early
chemical enrichment of the IGM. The intensity of the formation rate of
``normal'' stars is also well constrained by the observations: it has to be
dominated by star formation in elliptical galaxies, except perhaps at very low
redshift. The fraction of baryons in stars is predicted as are also the type Ia
and II supernova event rates. Comparison with SN observations in the redshift
range z=0-2 allows us to set strong constraints on the time delay of type Ia
supernovae (a total delay of \sim 4 Gyr is required to fit the data), the lower
end of the mass range of the progenitors (2 - 8 M_odot) and the fraction of
white dwarfs that reproduce the type Ia supernova (about 1 per cent). The
intensity in the initial starburst of zero metallicity stars below 270 M_\odot
must be limited in order to avoid premature overenrichment of the IGM. Only
about 10 - 20 % of the metals present in the IGM at z = 0 have been produced by
population III stars at very high z. The remaining 80 - 90 % are ejected later
by galaxies forming normal stars, with a maximum outflow efficiency occurring
at a redshift of about 5. We conclude that 10^{-3} of the mass in baryons must
lie in first massive stars in order to produce enough ionizing photons to allow
early reionization of the IGM by z \sim 15.