Langmuir probe techniques have been used to study time and spatially resolved
electron densities and electron temperatures in pulse-modulated hydrogen
discharges in two different planar microwave reactors (fmicrowave= 2.45 GHz,
tpulse= 1 ms). The reactors are (i) a standing-wave radiative slotted waveguide
reactor and (ii) a modified travelling-wave radiative slotted waveguide
reactor, which generate relatively large plasmas over areas from about 350 cm^2
to 500 cm^2. The plasma properties of these reactor types are of particular
interest as they have been used for basic research and for plasma processing,
e.g. for surface treatment and layer deposition. In the present study the
pressures and microwave powers in the reactors were varied between 33 and 55 Pa
and 600 and 3600 W, respectively. In regions with high electromagnetic fields
shielded Langmuir probes were used to avoid disturbances of the probe
characteristic. Close to the microwave windows of the reactors both the
electron density and the electron temperature showed strong inhomogeneities. In
the standing-wave reactor the inhomogeneity was found to be spatially modulated
by the position of the slots. The maximum value of the electron temperature was
about 10 eV and the electron density varied between 0.2 and 14*10^11 cm^-3. The
steady state electron temperature in a discharge pulse was reached within a few
tens of microseconds whereas the electron density needed some hundreds of
microseconds to reach a steady state. Depending on the reactor the electron
density reached a maximum between 80 and 200 microseconds after the beginning
of the pulse.