We employ the magnetic and velocity fields from turbulent dynamo simulations
to synthesize the polarization of a typical photospheric line. The synthetic
Stokes profiles have properties in common with those observed in the quiet Sun.
The simulated magnetograms present a level of signal similar to that of the
Inter-Network regions. Asymmetric Stokes V profiles with two, three and more
lobes appear in a natural way. The intensity profiles are broadened by the
magnetic fields in fair agreement with observational limits. Furthermore, the
Hanle depolarization signals of the Sr I 4607 A line turn out to be within the
solar values. Differences between synthetic and observed polarized spectra can
also be found. There is a shortage of Stokes V asymmetries, that we attribute
to a deficit of structuring in the magnetic and velocity fields from the
simulations as compared to the Sun This deficit may reflect the fact that the
Reynolds numbers of the numerical data are still far from solar values. We
consider the possibility that intense and tangled magnetic fields, like those
in the simulations, exist in the Sun. This scenario has several important
consequences. For example, less than 10% of the existing unsigned magnetic flux
would be detected in present magnetograms. The existing flux would exceed by
far that carried by active regions during the maximum of the solar cycle.
Detecting these magnetic fields would involve improving the angular resolution,
the techniques to interpret the polarization signals, and to a less extent, the
polarimetric sensitivity.