In a recent paper (Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 (2005), 184506; physics/0411050) it
was shown that a simple mean-field dynamo model with a spherically symmetric
helical turbulence parameter alpha can exhibit a number of features which are
typical for Earth's magnetic field reversals. In particular, the model produces
asymmetric reversals, a positive correlation of field strength and interval
length, and a bimodal field distribution. All these features are attributable
to the magnetic field dynamics in the vicinity of an exceptional point of the
spectrum of the non-selfadjoint dynamo operator. The negative slope of the
growth rate curve between the nearby local maximum and the exceptional point
makes the system unstable and drives it to the exceptional point and beyond
into the oscillatory branch where the sign change happens. A weakness of this
reversal model is the apparent necessity to fine-tune the magnetic Reynolds
number and/or the radial profile of alpha. In the present paper, it is shown
that this fine-tuning is not necessary in the case of higher supercriticality
of the dynamo. Numerical examples and physical arguments are compiled to show
that, with increasing magnetic Reynolds number, there is strong tendency for
the exceptional point and the associated local maximum to move close to the
zero growth rate line. Although exemplified again by the spherically symmetric
alpha^2 dynamo model, the main idea of this ''self-tuning'' mechanism of
saturated dynamos into a reversal-prone state seems well transferable to other
dynamos. As a consequence, reversing dynamos might be much more typical and may
occur much more frequently in nature than what could be expected from a purely
kinematic perspective.