A remarkable correlation is found in radio-loud quasars and BLLacs when the
directly observed angular motions, u, of features ejected in the innermost
regions of their jets are plotted on logarithmic scales versus the directly
observed 15 GHz flux density, S, of their central engines: an abrupt upper
envelope cut-off with a slope of 0.5 is obtained. This upper envelope and slope
can be explained in a simple non-relativistic ejection model if (a), radio-loud
quasars are radio standard candles and (b), for the sources defining the
cut-off, the features are all ejected with similar speeds. The upper envelope
is then due to the maximum projected velocity seen when the accretion disk is
edge-on, and ejections are in the plane of the sky. In our simple ejection
model, where S is a good measure of relative distance, the observed
distribution of angular motions can be explained if the radio luminosity of the
source is a function of viewing angle, increasing towards face-on. Here we show
that when u is plotted versus redshift, z, the same upper envelope cut-off is
seen. It is not as sharply defined, since, in this simple model, the u upper
envelope will be smeared out by sources lying at different cosmological
distances, z_(c). Normalizing all sources to the same distance (1 Jy) using the
flux density, S, removes this smearing and improves the sharpness of the upper
envelope, supporting our assumption that S is a measure of relative distance.
In this model the redshift of quasars cannot be a reliable indication of their
distance. (abridged)