We present a detailed re-analysis of the two {\it ASCA} Performance
Verification observations of the nearby Seyfert 1 galaxy MCG-6-30-15.
Confirming the results of Fabian et al. (1994), we find definite evidence for
the {\sc O\,vii} and {\sc O\,viii} K-shell absorption edges of the warm
absorber and a doubling of the warm absorber column density within the 3 weeks
separating the two observations. No intra-day {\it flux-correlated} variability
of the warm absorber is found. However, we report the discovery of an `event'
in which the warm absorber parameters temporarily change for
\sim10\,000\thinspace s before returning to their original values. Possible
interpretations are discussed but a contradiction remains: the constancy of the
ionization state of the warm absorber argues that it lies at large distances
from the central source whereas the short term change in column density argues
for small distances. Fluorescent iron emission is examined. As found by Fabian
et al. (1994), the iron line is broad and strong (equivalent width
\sim300\thinspace eV). The line profile is also suggestive of it being skewed.
Such a line would be expected from a relativistic accretion disk. We also find
very rapid primary X-ray variability. Assuming relativistic beaming to be
unimportant, the derived efficiency is comparable to the maximum obtainable
from accretion onto a Schwarzschild black hole. Correlated variability outside
of the energy range of {\it ASCA} might exceed this maximum, thus requiring
efficient accretion onto a Kerr hole.