ABRIDGED: We study the evolution since z~1 of the rest-frame B luminosity
function of the early-type galaxies (ETGs) in ~0.7 deg^2 in the COSMOS field.
In order to identify ALL progenitors of local ETGs we construct the sample of
high-z galaxies using two complementary criteria: (i) A morphological selection
based on the Zurich Estimator of Structural Types, and (ii) A photometric
selection based on the galaxy properties in the (U-V)-M_V color-magnitude
diagram. We furthermore constrain both samples so as to ensure that the
selected progenitors of ETGs are compatible with evolving into systems which
obey the mu_B-r_{hl} Kormendy relation. Assuming the luminosity evolution
derived from studies of the fundamental plane for high-z ETGs, our analysis
shows no evidence for a decrease in the number density of the most massive ETGs
out to z~ 0.7: Both the morphologically- and the photometrically-selected
sub-samples show no evolution in the number density of bright (~L>2.5L*) ETGs.
Allowing for different star formation histories, and cosmic variance, we
estimate a maximum decrease in the number density of massive galaxies at that
redshift of ~30%. We observe, however, in both the photometrical and
morphological samples, a deficit of up to ~2-3 of fainter ETGs over the same
cosmic period. Our results argue against a significant contribution of recent
dissipationless ``dry'' mergers to the formation of the most massive ETGs. We
suggest that the mass growth in low luminosity ETGs can be explained with a
conversion from z~0.7 to z=0 of blue, irregular and disk galaxies into low- and
intermediate-mass ``red'' ETGs, possibly also through gas rich mergers.