In this paper we present a new and flexible method to show that, in one
dimension, various self-repellent random walks converge to self-repellent
Brownian motion in the limit of weak interaction after appropriate space-time
scaling. Our method is based on cutting the path into pieces of an
appropriately scaled length, controlling the interaction between the different
pieces, and applying an invariance principle to the single pieces. In this way
we show that the self-repellent random walk large deviation rate function for
the empirical drift of the path converges to the self-repellent Brownian motion
large deviation rate function after appropriate scaling with the interaction
parameters. The method is considerably simpler than the approach followed in
our earlier work, which was based on functional analytic arguments applied to
variational representations and only worked in a very limited number of
situations.
  We consider two examples of a weak interaction limit: (1) vanishing
self-repellence, (2) diverging step variance. In example (1), we recover our
earlier scaling results for simple random walk with vanishing self-repellence
and show how these can be extended to random walk with steps that have zero
mean and a finite exponential moment. Moreover, we show that these scaling
results are stable against adding self-attraction, provided the self-repellence
dominates. In example (2), we prove a conjecture by Aldous for the scaling of
self-avoiding walk with diverging step variance. Moreover, we consider
self-avoiding walk on a two-dimensional horizontal strip such that the steps in
the vertical direction are uniform over the width of the strip and find the
scaling as the width tends to infinity.