Recently Andersson et. al., and Bildsten have independently suggested that an
r-mode instability might be responsible for stalling the neutron-star spin-up
in strongly accreting, Low Mass X-ray Binaries (LMXBs). We show that if this
does occur, then there are two possibilities for the resulting neutron-star
evolution:
  If the r-mode damping is a decreasing function of temperature, then the star
undergoes a cyclic evolution: (i) accretional spin-up triggers the instability
near the observed maximum spin rate; (ii) the r-modes become highly excited
through gravitational-radiation reaction, and in a fraction of a year they
viscously heat the star; (iii) r-mode gravitational-radiation reaction then
spins the star down in a fraction of a year to some limiting rotational
frequency; (iv) the r-mode instability shuts off; (v) the neutron star slowly
cools and is spun up by accretion, until it once again reaches the instability
point, closing the cycle. The shortness of the epoch of r-mode activity makes
it unlikely that r-modes are currently excited in the neutron star of any
galactic LMXBs. Nevertheless, this cyclic evolution could be responsible for
keeping the rotational frequencies within the observed LMXB frequency range.
  If, on the other hand, the r-mode damping is temperature independent, then a
steady state with constant angular velocity and $T_{\rm core}\simeq 4\times
10^8$K is reached, in which r-mode viscous heating is balanced by neutrino
cooling and accretional spin-up torque is balanced by
gravitational-radiation-reaction spin-down torque. In this case the neutron
stars in LMXBs could be potential sources of periodic gravitational waves,
detectable by enhanced LIGO interferometers.