We suggest a Lorentz-covariant theory of gravity that is equivalent to
general relativity in weak gravitational field. We first derive the mass
variation of a body falling freely in static gravitational field based on the
principle of equivalence and the mass-energy relation. We then modify the
standards of space-time in local gravitational field to keep them consistent
with the standards in inertial frame of reference at infinity based on the
influence of gravitational field on the light. The metric thus obtained agrees
with Schwarzschild metric at first order approximation. The gravitational
vector potential produced by a moving gravitational source can be obtained by
applying Lorentz transformations in local gravitational field. Although
inertial and non-inertial frames are equally valid in describing the motion of
bodies in gravitational field, we still regard inertial frame, i.e. center of
mass of the system, as the preferred frame of reference. This is because
Newton's laws of motion only hold for inertial frames. The apsidal motion of
binary system and the expansion of the universe can be explained more
reasonably when observed from their respective centers of mass than that from
relative motions. The expression of static metric in our theory does not
contain gravitational radius, thus black hole and singularity do not exist. In
our theory, the gravity in the presence of matter is the same as that in the
vacuum, i.e. TOV equation does not hold. The maximum mass of a neutron star is
about five times of solar mass based on our computation.