Optical observations of the GRB 970508 optical remnant were continued with
the 6-m telescope of SAO RAS in standard BVRcIc bands in Oct.-Dec.1997 and in
Jan. 1998. The results of the photometry of GRB970508 remnant and of three
nearby galaxies are presented. The BVRcIc light curves of the GRB970508 remnant
may be described by a power law plus a constant F(t)=F_0(t-t_0)^{\alpha}+C. In
In parameters determination of the faint host galaxy we used the results of our
BVRcIc photometry of May-August, 1997, the data of recent observations Keck-II
and WHT telescopes and also the data of Rc and B bands photometry obtained by
other contributors based on our secondary standards. The level-off from the initial
power-law decline seen in the first months after the burst observed in all
bands. The effect is the most strong in Ic band. The best \chi^2-fits for Fo,
\alpha, C parameters of the data in each of 4 bands point to the presence of a
faint constant source with Ic=24.13\pm0.28, Rc = 25.55\pm0.19, V=25.80\pm 0.14,
B=26.68\pm 0.14. The average \alpha of light curve power law is -1.23\pm0.04.
The optical remnant has the power law F_\nu \nu^\beta spectrum with spectral
slope = -1.10\pm0.08 and does not change after optical curve maximum. BVRcIc
spectrum together with an absolute magnitude of the constant component
M_B_rest=-17.5\pm0.3 and the limit of the linear size of underlying host galaxy
d<1.1 kpc, calculated for z=0.835,H_0=75km s^-1 Mpc^-1, q_0=0.5, correspond to
a host galaxy, such as a starburst dwarf, red starburst dwarf, irregular dwarf,
HII galaxy, or blue compact dwarf galaxy. All these types of dwarf galaxies
show evidence of starburst or post starburst activity. Galaxy G2 has a spectrum
similar to one of the host GRB galaxy and lies at the projected distance of ~20
kpc from GRB.