We first study the temporal Wilson loop in the finite-temperature
non-commutative dipole field theory from the string/gauge correspondence. The
associated dual supergravity background is constructed from the near-horizon
geometry of near-extremal D-branes, after applying T-duality and smeared twist.
We investigate the string configuration therein and find that while the
temperature produces a maximum distance $L_{max}$ in the interquark distance
the dipole in there could produce a minimum distance $L_{min}$. The quark
boundary pair therefore could be found only if their distance is between
$L_{min}$ and $L_{max}$. We also show that, beyond a critical temperature the
quark pair becomes totally free due to screening by thermal bath. We next study
the spatial Wilson loop and find the confining nature in the zero temperature
3D and 4D non-supersymmetry dipole gauge theory. The string tension of the
linear confinement potential is obtained and found to be a decreasing function
of the dipole field. We also investigate the associated t'Hooft loop and
determine the corresponding monopole anti-monopole potential. The conventional
screening of magnetic charge which indicates the confinement of the electric
charge is replaced by a strong repulsive however. Finally, we show that the
dual string which is rotating along the dipole deformed $S^5$ will behave as a
static one without dipole field, which has no minimum distance and has larger
energy than a static one with dipole field. We discuss the phase transition
between these string solutions.