We study the inverse problem of estimating a field $u$ from data comprising a
finite set of nonlinear functionals of $u$, subject to additive noise; we
denote this observed data by $y$. Our interest is in the reconstruction of
piecewise continuous fields in which the discontinuity set is described by a
finite number of geometric parameters. Natural applications include groundwater
flow and electrical impedance tomography. We take a Bayesian approach, placing
a prior distribution on $u$ and determining the conditional distribution on $u$
given the data $y$. It is then natural to study maximum a posterior (MAP)
estimators. Recently (Dashti et al 2013) it has been shown that MAP estimators
can be characterised as minimisers of a generalised Onsager-Machlup functional,
in the case where the prior measure is a Gaussian random field. We extend this
theory to a more general class of prior distributions which allows for
piecewise continuous fields. Specifically, the prior field is assumed to be
piecewise Gaussian with random interfaces between the different Gaussians
defined by a finite number of parameters. We also make connections with recent
work on MAP estimators for linear problems and possibly non-Gaussian priors
(Helin, Burger 2015) which employs the notion of Fomin derivative.
  In showing applicability of our theory we focus on the groundwater flow and
EIT models, though the theory holds more generally. Numerical experiments are
implemented for the groundwater flow model, demonstrating the feasibility of
determining MAP estimators for these piecewise continuous models, but also that
the geometric formulation can lead to multiple nearby (local) MAP estimators.
We relate these MAP estimators to the behaviour of output from MCMC samples of
the posterior, obtained using a state-of-the-art function space
Metropolis-Hastings method.