We present the observations of compound flux rope formation via merging of
two nearby filament channels, associated dynamics and its stability that
occurred on 2014 January 1 using multiwavelength data. We have also discussed
the dynamics of cool and hot plasma moving along the newly formed compound flux
rope. The merging started after the interaction between the southern leg of
northward filament and the northern leg of the southward filament at around
01:21 UT and continue until a compound flux rope formed at around 01:33 UT.
During the merging the cool filaments plasma heated up and started to move
along the both side of the compound flux rope i.e., toward north (approx 265
km/s) and south (approx 118 km/s) from the point of merging. After travelling a
distance of approx 150 Mm towards north the plasma become cool and started to
returns back towards south ( approx 14 km/s) after 02:00 UT. The observations
provide an clear example of compound flux rope formation via merging of two
different flux ropes and occurrence of flare through tether cutting
reconnection. However, the compound flux rope remained stable in the corona and
made an confined eruption. The coronal magnetic field decay index measurements
revealed that both the filaments and the compound flux rope axis lies within
the stability domain (decay index less than 1.5), which may be the possible
cause for their stability. The present study also deals with the relationship
between the filaments chirality (sinistral) and the helicity (positive) of the
surrounding flux rope.