We have detected quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) near 1 kHz from the low
mass X-ray binary 4U 0614+091 in observations with XTE. The observations span
several months and sample the source over a large range of X-ray luminosity. In
every interval QPOs are present above 400 Hz with fractional RMS amplitudes
from 3 to 12%. At high count rates, two high frequency QPOs are detected
simultaneously. The difference of their frequency centroids is consistent with
323 Hz in all observations. During one interval a third signal is detected at
328 +/- 2 Hz. This suggests the system has a stable `clock' which is most
likely the neutron star with spin period 3.1 msec. Thus, our observations and
those of another neutron star system by Strohmayer et al. (1996) provide the
first evidence for millisecond pulsars within low-mass X-ray binary systems and
reveal the `missing-link' between millisecond radiopulsars and the late stages
of binary evolution in low mass X-ray binaries (Alpar et al. 1982). We suggest
that the kinematics of the magnetospheric beat-frequency model (Alpar and
Shaham 1985) applies to these QPOs. In this interpretation the high frequency
signal is associated with the Keplerian frequency of the inner accretion disk
and the lower frequency `beat' signal arises from the differential rotation
frequency of the inner disk and the spinning neutron star. Assuming the high
frequency QPO is a Keplerian orbital frequency for the accretion disk, we find
a maximum mass of 1.9 solar masses and a maximum radius of 17 km for the
neutron star.