Solar flares strongly affect the Sun's atmosphere as well as the Earth's
environment. Quantifying the maximum possible energy of solar flares of the
present-day Sun, if any, is thus a key question in heliophysics. The largest
solar flares observed over the past few decades have reached energies of a few
times 10^{32} ergs, possibly up to 10^{33} ergs. Flares in active Sun-like
stars reach up to about 10^{36} ergs. In the absence of direct observations of
solar flares within this range, complementary methods of investigation are
needed. Using historical reports for solar active region, we scaled to observed
solar values a realistic dimensionless 3D MHD simulation for eruptive flares,
which originate from a highly sheared bipole. This enabled us to calculate the
magnetic fluxes and flare energies in the model in a wide paramater space.
Firstly, commonly observed solar conditions lead to modeled magnetic fluxes and
flare energies that are comparable to those estimated from observations.
Secondly, we evaluate from observations that 30% of the area of sunspot groups
are typically involved in flares. This is related to the strong fragmentation
of these groups, which naturally results from sub-photospheric convection. When
the model is scaled to 30% of the area of the largest sunspot group ever
reported, with its peak magnetic field being set to the strongest value ever
measured in a sunspot, it produces a flare with a maximum energy of ~ 6x10^{33}
ergs. The results of the model suggest that the Sun is able to produce flares
up to about six times as energetic in total solar irradiance fluence as the
strongest directly-observed flare from Nov 4, 2003. Sunspot groups larger than
historically reported would yield superflares for spot pairs that would exceed
tens of degrees in extent. We thus conjecture that superflare-productive
Sun-like stars should have a much stronger dynamo than in the Sun.