In our search for new magnetic massive stars we use the strongest indirect
indicator of a magnetic field in B stars, which is periodic variability of UV
stellar wind lines occurring in a velocity range symmetric around zero. Our aim
is to obtain follow-up spectropolarimetry to search for a magnetic field in
magnetic candidate stars. We quantify UV wind line variability, and analyse its
time behaviour. The B1/B2V star sigma Lup emerged as a new magnetic candidate
star. AAT spectropolarimetric measurements with SEMPOL were obtained.
  The stellar wind line variations of sigma Lup are similar to what is known in
magnetic B stars, but no periodicity could be determined. We detected a
longitudinal magnetic field with varying strength and amplitude of about 100 G
with error bars of typically 20 G, which supports an oblique magnetic-rotator
configuration. The equivalent width variations of the UV lines, the magnetic
and the optical line variations are consistent with the well-known photometric
period of 3.02 days, which we identify with the rotation period of the star.
Additional observations with ESPaDOnS at CFHT strongly confirmed this
discovery, and allowed to determine a precise magnetic period. Further analysis
revealed that $\sigma$ Lupi is a helium-strong star, with an enhanced nitrogen
abundance and an underabundance of carbon, and has a spotted surface.
  We conclude that sigma Lup is a magnetic oblique rotator, and is a He-strong
star. It is the 4th B star for which a magnetic field is discovered from
studying only its wind variability. Like in the other magnetic B stars the wind
emission originates in the magnetic equator, with maximum emission occurring
when a magnetic pole points towards the Earth. The 3.02 d magnetic rotation
period is consistent with the photometric period, with maximum light
corresponding to maximum magnetic field. A full paper will be submitted to A&A.