Propagating star formation in a collisional ring galaxy Arp10 is investigated
by a complex approach, which includes the broad- and narrow-band photometry,
long- slit spectroscopy, and scanning Fabry-Perot spectroscopy. The ionized gas
velocity field obtained with best spatial resolution to date indicates a non-
isotropic expansion of the outer ring with a maximum velocity 110km/s. Strong
vertical and non-circular motions are also seen in the vicinity of the inner
ring. Our kinematic data suggest that Arp10 has a small inclination i=22\degr
and high total (luminous plus dark matter) mass of about $10^{12} M_{\odot}$
within a 50 kpc radius.The abundance of oxygen 12 + log(O/H) in both star-
forming rings is about 8.6.The analysis of spectral indices provides an
estimate on the propagation velocities of both rings and metallicity of the
pre-collision stellar population.A small "knot" near the nucleus of Arp10,which
was previously suspected as a possible candidate for collision, is now
unambiguously identified as the "intruder" of at least 1/4 of the total mass of
Arp~10.We use a simplified two-dimensional hydrodynamic modeling of galaxy
collisions to test a collisional origin of Arp10. We confirm that the sizes of
the inner and outer rings, maximum expansion velocity of the outer ring, and
radial profile of the gas circular velocity can be reproduced by a near-central
collision with the intruder galaxy, which occurred approximately 85Myr ago. We
acknowledge that an apparent crescent- shaped distribution of H$\alpha$
emission in the outer ring is caused by a star formation threshold in the gas
disk of Arp10.