The results of contemporaneous summer nighttime observations of midlatitude
medium scale traveling ionospheric disturbances (MSTIDs) with the Very Large
Array (VLA) in New Mexico and nearby ionosondes in Texas and Colorado are
presented. Using 132, 20-minute observations, several instances of MSTIDs were
detected, all having wavefronts aligned northwest to southeast and mostly
propagating toward the southwest, consistent with previous studies of MSTIDs.
However, some were also found to move toward the northeast. It was found that
both classes of MSTIDs were only found when sporadic-E (Es) layers of moderate
peak density (1.5<foEs<3 MHz) were present. Limited fbEs data from one
ionosonde suggests that there was a significant amount of structure with the Es
layers during observations when foEs>3 MHz that was not present when 1.5<foEs<3
MHz. No MSTIDs were observed either before midnight or when the F-region height
was increasing at a relatively high rate, even when these Es layers were
observed. Combining this result with AE indices which were relatively high at
the time (an average of about 300 nT and maximum of nearly 700 nT), it is
inferred that both the lack of MSTIDs and the increase in F-region height are
due to substorm-induced electric fields. The northeastward-directed MSTIDs were
strongest post-midnight during times when the F-region was observed to be
collapsing relatively quickly. This implies that these two occurrences are
related and likely both caused by rare shifts in F-region neutral wind
direction from southwest to northwest.