We consider classical lattice models describing first-order phase
transitions, and study the finite-size scaling of the magnetization and
susceptibility. In order to model the effects of an actual surface in systems
like small magnetic clusters, we consider models with free boundary conditions.
For a field driven transition with two coexisting phases at the infinite volume
transition point $h=h_t$, we prove that the low temperature finite volume
magnetization $m_{\free}(L,h)$ per site in a cubic volume of size $L^d$ behaves
like
  $m_\free(L,h)=\frac{m_++m_-}2 + \frac{m_+-m_-}2
  \tanh \bigl(\frac{m_+-m_-}2\,L^d\, (h-h_\chi(L))\bigr)+O(1/L)$,
  where $h_\chi(L)$ is the position of the maximum of the (finite volume)
susceptibility and $m_\pm$ are the infinite volume magnetizations at $h=h_t+0$
and $h=h_t-0$, respectively. We show that $h_\chi(L)$ is shifted by an amount
proportional to $1/L$ with respect to the infinite volume transitions point
$h_t$ provided the surface free energies of the two phases at the transition
point are different. This should be compared with the shift for periodic boun\-
dary conditons, which for an asymmetric transition with two coexisting phases
is proportional only to $1/L^{2d}$. One also consider the position $h_U(L)$ of
the maximum of the so called Binder cummulant $U_\free(L,h)$. While it is again
shifted by an amount proportional to $1/L$ with respect to the infinite volume
transition point $h_t$, its shift with respect to $h_\chi(L)$ is of the much
smaller order $1/L^{2d}$. We give explicit formulas for the proportionality
factors, and show that, in the leading $1/L^{2d}$ term, the relative shift is
the same as that for periodic boundary conditions.