We report the detection of X-ray emission from the jet-driving symbiotic star
MWC 560. We observed MWC 560 with XMM-Newton for 36 ks. We fitted the spectra
from the EPIC pn, MOS1 and MOS2 instruments with XSPEC and examined the light
curves with the package XRONOS. The spectrum can be fitted with a highly
absorbed hard X-ray component from an optically-thin hot plasma, a Gaussian
emission line with an energy of 6.1 keV and a less absorbed soft thermal
component. The best fit is obtained with a model in which the hot component is
produced by optically thin thermal emission from an isobaric cooling flow with
a maximum temperature of 61 keV, which might be created inside an
optically-thin boundary layer on the surface of the accreting with dwarf. The
derived parameters of the hard component detected in MWC 560 are in good
agreement with similar objects as CH Cyg, SS7317, RT Cru and T CrB, which all
form a new sub-class of symbiotic stars emitting hard X-rays. Our previous
numerical simulations of the jet in MWC 560 showed that it should produce
detectable soft X-ray emission. We infer a temperature of 0.17 keV for the
observed soft component, i.e. less than expected from our models. The total
soft X-ray flux (i.e. at < 3 keV) is more than a factor 100 less than predicted
for the propagating jet soon after its birth (<0.3 yr), but consistent with the
value expected due its decrease with age. The ROSAT upper limit is also
consistent with such a decrease. We find aperiodic or quasi-periodic
variability on timescales of minutes and hours, but no periodic rapid
variability. All results are consistent with an accreting white dwarf powering
the X-ray emission and the existence of an optically-thin boundary layer around
it.