We present the second part of a detailed statistical study focussed on the
effects of tidal interactions and minor mergers on the radial and vertical disk
structure of spiral galaxies. In the first part we reported on the sample
selection, observations, and applied disk models. In this paper the results are
presented, based on disk parameters derived from a sample of 110
highly-inclined/edge-on galaxies. This sample consists of two subsamples of 49
interacting/merging and 61 non-interacting galaxies. Additionally, 41 of these
galaxies were observed in the NIR. We find significant changes of the disk
structure in vertical direction, resulting in ~1.5 times larger scale heights
and thus vertical velocity dispersions. The radial disk structure,
characterized by the cut-off radius and the scale length, shows no
statistically significant changes. Thus, the ratio of radial to vertical scale
parameters, h/z0, is ~1.7 times smaller for the sample of interacting/merging
galaxies. The total lack of typical flat disk ratios (h/z0)>7 in the latter
sample implies that vertical disk heating is most efficient for (extremely)
thin disks. Statistically nearly all galactic disks in the sample (93%) possess
non-isothermal vertical luminosity profiles like the sech (60%) and exp (33%)
distribution, independent of the sample and passband investigated. This
indicates that, in spite of tidal perturbations and disk thickening, the
initial vertical distribution of disk stars is not destroyed by interactions or
minor mergers.