The aim of this work is to describe the electronic properties of graphene in
a constant magnetic field in the long wavelength approximation with random
binary disorder, by solving the Soven equation self-consistently. Density of
state contributions for different valleys in each sublattice sites are obtained
for different values of magnetic field strength showing remarkable differences
between K and K' valleys. A band gap is obtained by an asymmetric on-site
impurity concentration and the graphene electrons acquire an anomalous magnetic
moment, which is opposite in different valleys, which depend highly in the
interplay between the impurity band, the band edges and the broadening of the
Landau levels. In turn, magnetization as a function of B for different on-site
random impurities is computed showing that by decreasing the on-site impurity
energy values, maximum magnetization is shifted towards higher values of B
which can be used to create and manipulate polarized valley currents. Finally,
conductivity and local vertex function are obtained as a function of energy
showing that scattering contributions from A and B sublattices differ
significantly. Effective medium local two-irreducible vertex is computed
showing that scattering from sublattices A and B do not contribute equally,
which can be related to weak anti-localization. From these results, it could be
possible to explore how the valley pseudospin can be used to create polarized
currents by populating asymmetrically the sublattice sites, where the
population can be tuned with the applied magnetic field strength.