In this paper, an efficient three-dimensional lattice Boltzmann (LB) model
with multiple-relaxation-time (MRT) collision operator is developed for the
simulation of multiphase flows. This model is an extension of our previous
two-dimensional model (H. Liang, B. C. Shi, Z. L. Guo, and Z. H. Chai, Phys.
Rev. E. 89, 053320 (2014)) to the three dimensions using the D3Q7 (seven
discrete velocities in three dimensions) lattice for the Chan-Hilliard equation
(CHE) and the D3Q15 lattice for the Navier-Stokes equations (NSEs). Due to the
smaller lattice-velocity numbers used, the computional efficiency can be
significantly improved in simulating real three-dimensional flows, and
simultaneously the present model can recover to the CHE and NSEs correctly
through the chapman-Enskog procedure. We compare the present MRT model with the
single-relaxation-time model and the previous three-dimensional LB model using
two benchmark interface-tracking problems, and numerical results show that the
present MRT model can achieve a significant improvement in the accuracy and
stability of the interface capturing. The developed model is also able to deal
with multiphase fluids with very low viscosities due to the using of the MRT
collision model, which is demonstrated by the simulation of the classical
Rayleigh-Taylor instability at various Reynolds numbers. The maximum Reynolds
number considered in this work reaches up to $4000$, which is larger than those
of almost previous simulations. It is found that the instabilty induces a more
complex structure of the interface at a high Reynolds number.