The fact that classical mathematical proofs of simply existential statements
can be read as programs was established by Goedel and Kreisel half a century
ago. But the possibility of extracting useful computational content from
classical proofs was taken seriously only from the 1990s on when it was
discovered that proof interpretations based on Goedel's and Kreisel's ideas can
provide new nontrivial algorithms and numerical results, and the Curry-Howard
correspondence can be extended to classical logic via programming concepts such
as continuations and control operators.
  The workshop series "Classical Logic and Computation" aims to support a
fruitful exchange of ideas between the various lines of research on
computational aspects of classical logic. This volume contains the abstracts of
the invited lectures and the accepted contributed papers of the third CL&C
workshop which was held jointly with the workshop "Program Extraction and
Constructive Mathematics" at the University of Brno in August 21-22, 2010, as a
satellite of CSL and MFCS. The workshops were held in honour of Helmut
Schwichtenberg who became "professor emeritus" in September 2010.
  The topics of the papers include the foundations, optimizations and
applications of proof interpretations such as Hilbert's epsilon substitution
method, Goedel's functional interpretation, learning based realizability and
negative translations as well as special calculi and theories capturing
computational and complexity-theoretic aspects of classical logic such as the
lambda-mu-calculus, applicative theories, sequent-calculi, resolution and
cut-elimination