We consider a three-node half-duplex Gaussian relay network where two nodes
(say $a$, $b$) want to communicate with each other and the third node acts as a
relay for this twoway communication. Outer bounds and achievable rate regions
for the possible rate pairs $(R_a, R_b)$ for two-way communication are
investigated. The modes (transmit or receive) of the halfduplex nodes together
specify the state of the network. A relaying protocol uses a specific sequence
of states and a coding scheme for each state. In this paper, we first obtain an
outer bound for the rate region of all achievable $(R_a,R_b)$ based on the
half-duplex cut-set bound. This outer bound can be numerically computed by
solving a linear program. It is proved that at any point on the boundary of the
outer bound only four of the six states of the network are used. We then
compare it with achievable rate regions of various known protocols. We consider
two kinds of protocols: (1) protocols in which all messages transmitted in a
state are decoded with the received signal in the same state, and (2) protocols
where information received in one state can also be stored and used as side
information to decode messages in future states. Various conclusions are drawn
on the importance of using all states, use of side information, and the choice
of processing at the relay. Then, two analytical outer bounds (as opposed to an
optimization problem formulation) are derived. Using an analytical outer bound,
we obtain the symmetric capacity within 0.5 bits for some channel conditions
where the direct link between nodes a and b is weak.