We report on the gamma-ray activity of the high-synchrotron-peaked BL
Lacertae object Mrk 421 during the first 1.5 years of Fermi operation, from
2008 August 5 to 2010 March 12. We find that the Large Area Telescope (LAT)
gamma-ray spectrum above 0.3 GeV can be well-described by a power-law function
with photon index Gamma=1.78 +/- 0.02 and average photon flux F(>0.3 GeV)=(7.23
+/- 0.16) x 10^{-8} ph cm^{-2} s^{-1}. Over this time period, the Fermi-LAT
spectrum above 0.3 GeV was evaluated on 7-day-long time intervals, showing
significant variations in the photon flux (up to a factor ~3 from the minimum
to the maximum flux), but mild spectral variations. The variability amplitude
at X-ray frequencies measured by RXTE/ASM and Swift/BAT is substantially larger
than that in gamma-rays measured by Fermi-LAT, and these two energy ranges are
not significantly correlated. We also present the first results from the
4.5-month-long multifrequency campaign on Mrk 421, which included the VLBA,
Swift, RXTE, MAGIC, the F-GAMMA, GASP-WEBT, and other collaborations and
instruments which provided excellent temporal and energy coverage of the source
throughout the entire campaign (2009 January 19 to 2009 June 1). During this
campaign, Mrk 421 showed a low activity at all wavebands. The extensive
multi-instrument (radio to TeV) data set provides an unprecedented, complete
look at the quiescent spectral energy distribution (SED) for this source. The
broad band SED was reproduced with a leptonic (one-zone Synchrotron
Self-Compton) and a hadronic model (Synchrotron Proton Blazar). Both frameworks
are able to describe the average SED reasonably well, implying comparable jet
powers but very different characteristics for the blazar emission site.