We report results of N-body simulations of isolated star clusters, performed
up to the point where the clusters are nearly completely dissolved. Our main
focus is on the post-collapse evolution of these clusters. We find that after
core collapse, isolated clusters evolve along nearly a single sequence of
models whose properties are independent of the initial density profile and
particle number. Due to the slower expansion of high-N clusters, relaxation
times become almost independent of the particle number after several core
collapse times, at least for the particle range of our study. As a result, the
dissolution times of isolated clusters exhibit a surprisingly weak dependence
on N.
  We find that most stars escape due to encounters between single stars inside
the half-mass radius of the cluster. Encounters with binaries take place mostly
in the cluster core and account for roughly 15% of all escapers. Encounters
between single stars at intermediate radii are also responsible for the build
up of a radial anisotropic velocity distribution in the halo. For clusters
undergoing core oscillations, escape due to binary stars is efficient only when
the cluster center is in a contracted phase. Our simulations show that it takes
about 10^5 N-body time units until the global anisotropy reaches its maximum
value. The anisotropy increases with particle number and it seems conceivable
that isolated star clusters become vulnerable to radial orbit instabilities for
large enough N. However, no indication for the onset of such instabilities was
seen in our runs.