It has been conjectured by Host-Madsen and Nosratinia that complex Gaussian
interference channels with constant channel coefficients have only one
degree-of-freedom regardless of the number of users. While several examples are
known of constant channels that achieve more than 1 degree of freedom, these
special cases only span a subset of measure zero. In other words, for almost
all channel coefficient values, it is not known if more than 1
degree-of-freedom is achievable. In this paper, we settle the
Host-Madsen-Nosratinia conjecture in the negative. We show that at least 1.2
degrees-of-freedom are achievable for all values of complex channel
coefficients except for a subset of measure zero. For the class of linear
beamforming and interference alignment schemes considered in this paper, it is
also shown that 1.2 is the maximum number of degrees of freedom achievable on
the complex Gaussian 3 user interference channel with constant channel
coefficients, for almost all values of channel coefficients. To establish the
achievability of 1.2 degrees of freedom we introduce the novel idea of
asymmetric complex signaling - i.e., the inputs are chosen to be complex but
not circularly symmetric. It is shown that unlike Gaussian point-to-point,
multiple-access and broadcast channels where circularly symmetric complex
Gaussian inputs are optimal, for interference channels optimal inputs are in
general asymmetric. With asymmetric complex signaling, we also show that the 2
user complex Gaussian X channel with constant channel coefficients achieves the
outer bound of 4/3 degrees-of-freedom, i.e., the assumption of
time-variations/frequency-selectivity used in prior work to establish the same
result, is not needed.