Compact stars can have either hadronic matter or can have exotic states of
matter like strange quark matter or color superconducting matter. Stars also
can have a quark core surrounded by hadronic matter, known as hybrid stars
(HS). The HS is likely to have a mixed phase in between the hadron and quark
phase. Observational results suggest huge surface magnetic field in certain
neutron stars (NS) called magnetars. Here we study the effect of strong
magnetic field on the respective EOS of matter under extreme conditions. We
further study the hadron-quark phase transition in the interiors of NS giving
rise to hybrid stars (HS) in presence of strong magnetic field. The hadronic
matter EOS is described based on relativistic mean field theory and we include
the effect of strong magnetic fields leading to Landau quantization of the
charged particles. For the quark phase we use the simple MIT bag model. We
assume density dependent bag pressure and magnetic field. The magnetic field
strength increases going from the surface to the center of the star. We
construct the intermediate mixed phase using Glendenning conjecture. The
magnetic field softens the EOS of both the matter phases. The effect of
magnetic field is insignificant unless the field strength is above $10^{14}$G.
A varying magnetic field, with surface field strength of $10^{14}$G and the
central field strength of the order of $10^{17}$G has significant effect on
both the stiffness and the mixed phase regime of the EOS. We finally study the
mass-radius relationship for such type of mixed HS, calculating their maximum
mass, and compare them with the recent observation of pulsar PSR J1614-2230,
which is about 2 solar mass. The observations puts a severe constraint on the
EOS of matter at extreme conditions. The maximum mass with our EOS can reach
the limit set by the observation.