We study a natural generalization of the maximum weight many-to-one matching
problem. We are given an undirected bipartite graph G= (A u P, E) with weights
on the edges in E, and with lower and upper quotas on the vertices in P. We
seek a maximum weight many-to-one matching satisfying two sets of constraints:
vertices in A are incident to at most one matching edge, while vertices in P
are either unmatched or they are incident to a number of matching edges between
their lower and upper quota. This problem, which we call maximum weight
many-to-one matching with lower and upper quotas (wmlq), has applications to
the assignment of students to projects within university courses, where there
are constraints on the minimum and maximum numbers of students that must be
assigned to each project.
  In this paper, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the complexity of wmlq
from the viewpoints of classic polynomial time algorithms, fixed-parameter
tractability, as well as approximability. We draw the line between NP-hard and
polynomially tractable instances in terms of degree and quota constraints and
provide efficient algorithms to solve the tractable ones. We further show that
the problem can be solved in polynomial time for instances with bounded
treewidth; however, the corresponding runtime is exponential in the treewidth
with the maximum upper quota u_{max} as basis, and we prove that this
dependence is necessary unless FPT = W[1]. Finally, we also present an
approximation algorithm for the general case with performance guarantee
u_{max}+1, which is asymptotically best possible unless P = NP.