The gamma-ray binary system PSR B1259-63 consists of a 48 ms pulsar orbiting
a Be star. The system is particularly interesting because it is the only
gamma-ray binary system where the nature of the compact object is known. The
non-thermal radiation from the system is powered by the spin-down luminosity of
the pulsar and the unpulsed radiation originates from the stand-off shock front
which forms between the pulsar and stellar wind. The Be star/optical companion
in the system produces an excess infrared flux from the associated
circumstellar disc. This infrared excess provides an additional photon source
for inverse Compton scattering. We discuss the effects of the IR excess near
periastron, for anisotropic inverse Compton scattering and associated gamma-ray
production. We determine the infrared excess from the circumstellar disc using
a modified version of a curve of growth method, which takes into account the
changing optical depth through the circumstellar disc during the orbit. The
model is constrained using archive data and additional mid-IR observations
obtained with the VLT during January 2011. The inverse Compton scattering rate
was calculated for three orientations of the circumstellar disc. The predicted
gamma-ray light curves show that the disc contribution is a maximum around
periastron and not around the disc crossing epoch. This is a result of the disc
being brightest near the stellar surface. Additional spectroscopic and
near-infrared observations were obtained of the system and these are discussed
in relation to the possibility of shock heating during the disc crossing epoch.