In the present paper we report the detection of intra-night variability in
some of the RQQSOs and one LDQ. To study intra-night variability, we carried
out photometric monitoring of seven RQQSOs and one LDQ in Johnson V-passband
using 1.2 meter optical/IR telescope at Gurushikhar, Mount Abu, India.
Observations were made in nine nights during the first half of the year 2000;
seven RQQSOs: 0748+291, 0945+438, 1017+280, 1029+329, 1101+319, 1225+317,
1252+020 and one LDQ: 1103-006 were observed. RQQSOs 0748+291, 1225+317 and LDQ
1103-006 have shown existence of intra-night variations. In the case of
1017+280 (RQQSO) there is indication of intra-night variation in one night
where as the observations in another night do not show convincingly the
existence of intra-night variability. RQQSOs 0945+438, 1029+329, 1101+319 and
1252+020 have not shown any intra-night variations. We compiled intra-night
variability data for radio-loud and radio-quiet AGNs from the literature for
statistical analysis. It is found that a good fraction of radio-quiet AGNs show
intra-night variations with the maximum amplitude of variation being about 10%.
On the other hand blazars show at times intra-night flux variability up to
100%. In case of radio-loud AGNs (excluding blazars), maximum amplitude of
intra-night variation lies between the variability amplitude of radio-quiet
AGNs and blazars i.e. the flux variation is close to 50%. The results indicate
that the energy generation mechanism and the environment around the central
engine in different classes of AGNs may be similar, if not identical. The
standard model for radio-loud AGNs, where shocks are propagating down
relativistic jet or models based on disturbances in accretion disks can also
explain the micro-variability in RQQSOs.