In only three of the 61 known magnetic white dwarfs helium has been
identified unambiguously while about 20% of all non-magnetic stars of this
class are known to contain HeI or HeII. Until recently, data for HeI data were
available only for magnetic fields below 20MG. This changed with the
publication of extensive data by the group in Heidelberg. The corresponding
calculations have now been completed for the energetically lowest five states
of singlet and triplet symmetry for the subspaces with |m| <= 3; selected
calculations have been performed for even higher excitations. In strongly
magnetized white dwarfs only line components are visible whose wavelengths vary
slowly with respect to the magnetic field, particularly stationary components
which have a wavelength minimum or maximum in the range of the magnetic fields
strengths on the stellar surface. In view of the many ongoing surveys finding
white dwarfs we want to provide the astronomical community with a tool to
identify helium in white dwarfs for fields up to 5.3GG. To this end we present
all calculated helium line components whose wavelengths in the UV, optical, and
near IR vary slowly enough with respect to the field strength to produce
visible absorption features. We also list all stationary line components in
this spectral range. Finally, we find series of minima and maxima which occur
as a result of series of extremal transitions to increasingly higher
excitations. We estimated the limits for 8 series which can possibly give rise
to additional absorption in white dwarf spectra; one strong absorption feature
in GD229 which is yet unexplained by stationary components is very close to two
estimated series limits.