It has been suggested that the transition between magnetorotationally active
and dead zones in protoplanetary disks should be prone to the excitation of
vortices via Rossby wave instability (RWI). However, the only numerical
evidence for this has come from alpha disk models, where the magnetic field
evolution is not followed, and the effect of turbulence is parametrized by
Laplacian viscosity. We aim to establish the phenomenology of the flow in the
transition in 3D resistive-magnetohydrodynamical models. We model the
transition by a sharp jump in resistivity, as expected in the inner dead zone
boundary, using the Pencil Code to simulate the flow. We find that vortices are
readily excited in the dead side of the transition. We measure the mass
accretion rate finding similar levels of Reynolds stress at the dead and active
zones, at the $\alpha\approx 10^{-2}$ level. The vortex sits in a pressure
maximum and does not migrate, surviving until the end of the simulation. A
pressure maximum in the active zone also triggers the RWI. The magnetized
vortex that results should be disrupted by parasitical magneto-elliptic
instabilities, yet it subsists in high resolution. This suggests that either
the parasitic modes are still numerically damped, or that the RWI supplies
vorticity faster than they can destroy it. We conclude that the resistive
transition between the active and dead zones in the inner regions of
protoplanetary disks, if sharp enough, can indeed excite vortices via RWI. Our
results lend credence to previous works that relied on the alpha-disk
approximation, and caution against the use of overly reduced azimuthal coverage
on modeling this transition.