We predict the observable properties of the galaxy population in popular
hierarchical models of galaxy formation. We employ a detailed semianalytic
procedure which incorporates the formation and merging of dark matter halos,
the shock heating and radiative cooling of gas, self-regulated star formation,
the merging of galaxies within dark matter halos, and the spectral evolution of
the stellar populations. We contrast the standard CDM cosmogony with variants
of the CDM model having either a low value of H_0, or a low value of Omega with
or without a cosmological constant. In addition, we compare galaxy formation in
these CDM universes with a CHDM model. We find that although the models have
some success in remedying the shortcomings of the standard CDM cosmogony, none
of these new models produce broad agreement with the whole range of
observations. Although the low-Omega and Omega+Lambda=1 CDM models reduce the
discrepancy between the predicted and observed Tully-Fisher relations (the main
weakness of galaxy formation in standard CDM), these models predict an inverted
colour-magnitude relation and do not produce an exponential cut-off at the
bright end of the galaxy luminosity function. All of our models predict recent
star formation and exhibit galaxy colours bluer than observed, but this problem
is far more severe in the CHDM model which produces colours about two
magnitudes too blue in B-K. Unlike in the variants of the CDM model in the CHDM
case this result is not dependent on our model of stellar feedback, but is
instead directly caused by the late epoch of structure formation in this model.