Recently realization of TeV scale inverse seesaw mechanism in supersymmetric
SO(10) framework has led to a number of experimentally verifiable predictions
including low-mass W_R and Z' gauge bosons and nonunitarity effects. Using
nonsupersymmetric SO(10) grand unified theory, we show how a TeV scale inverse
seesaw mechanism for neutrino masses is implemented with a low-mass Z' boson
accessible to Large Hadron Collider. We derive renormalization group equations
for fermion masses and mixings in the presence of the intermediate symmetries
of the model and extract the Dirac neutrino mass matrix at the TeV scale from
successful GUT-scale parameterization of fermion masses. We estimate leptonic
nonunitarity effects measurable at neutrino factories and lepton flavor
violating decays expected to be probed in near future. While our prediction on
the nonunitarity matrix element $\eta_{\mu\tau}$ for degenerate right-handed
neutrinos is similar to the supersymmetric SO(10) case, we find new predictions
with significantly enhanced value of its phase $\delta_{\mu\tau}\simeq
10^{-4}-10^{-2}$ when partial degeneracy among these neutrino masses is
adequately taken into account by a constraint relation that emerges naturally
in this approach. Other predictions on branching ratios and CP-Violating
parameters are discussed. An important distinguishing characteristic as another
test of the minimal model is that the threshold corrected two-loop prediction
of the proton lifetime with maximum value ({\tau}_p)_{max}\simeq 10^{35} yrs.
is accessible to ongoing search experiments for the decay $p\to e^+\pi^0$ in
the near future. Simple model extensions with longer proton lifetime
predictions are also discussed.