Despite the great potential of the U-band galaxy luminosity function (GLF) to
constrain the history of star formation in clusters, to clarify the question of
variations of the GLF across filter bands, to provide a baseline for
comparisons to high-redshift studies of the cluster GLF, and to estimate the
contribution of bound systems of galaxies to the extragalactic near-UV
background, determinations have so far been hampered by the generally low
efficiency of detectors in the U-band and by the difficulty of constructing
both deep and wide surveys. In this paper, we present U-band GLFs of three
nearby, rich clusters to a limit of M_U=-17.5 (M*_U+2). Our analysis is based
on a combination of separate spectroscopic and R-band and U-band photometric
surveys. For this purpose, we have developed a new maximum-likelihood algorithm
for calculating the luminosity function that is particularly useful for
reconstructing the galaxy distribution function in multi-dimensional spaces
(e.g., the number of galaxies as a simultaneous function of luminosity in
different filter bands, surface brightness, star formation rate, morphology,
etc.), because it requires no prior assumptions as to the shape of the
distribution function.
  The composite luminosity function can be described by a Schechter function
with characteristic magnitude M*_U=-19.82+/-0.27 and faint end slope
alpha_U=-1.09+/-0.18. The total U-band GLF is slightly steeper than the R-band
GLF, indicating that cluster galaxies are bluer at fainter magnitudes.
Quiescent galaxies dominate the cumulative U-band flux for M_U<-14. The
contribution of galaxies in nearby clusters to the U-band extragalactic
background is <1% Gyr^-1 for clusters of masses ~3*10^14 to 2*10^15 M_solar.