The Boltzmann equation for excess Cooper pairs above T_c is derived in the
framework of the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau (TDGL) theory using Langevin's
approach of the stochastic differential equation. The Newton dynamic equation
for the momentum dependent drift velocity is obtained and the effective drag
force is determined by the energy dependent life time of the metastable Cooper
pairs. The Newton equation gives just the Drude mobility for the fixed momentum
of Cooper pairs. It is shown that the comparison with the well-known result for
Aslamazov-Larkin paraconductivity and BCS treatment of the excess Hall effect
can give the final determination of all the coefficients of TDGL theory. As a
result the intuitive arguments used for an interpretation of the experimental
data for fluctuation kinetics are successively introduced. The presented simple
picture of the degenerated Bose gas in tau-approximation near to Bose-Einstein
condensation temperature can be used for analysis of fluctuation conductivity
for the cases of high frequency and external magnetic field for layered and
bulk superconductors. The work of the Boltzmann equation is illustrated by
frequency dependent Aslamazov-Larkin conductivity in nanowires, two dimensional
case and the case of strong electric field where the TDGL equation is solved
directly. There are also derived explicit formulas for the current in the case
of arbitrary time dependence of electric field up to THz range, the
distribution of fluctuation Cooper pairs for non-parabolic dispersion, the
influence of the energy cut-off and the self consistent equation for the
reduced temperature. The general theory is illustrated by formulae for
fluctuation conductivity in nanowires and nanostructured superconductors.