Two different approaches to analysis of data from diagnostic biomarker
studies are commonly employed. Logistic regression is used to fit models for
probability of disease given marker values, while ROC curves and risk
distributions are used to evaluate classification performance. In this paper we
present a method that simultaneously accomplishes both tasks. The key step is
to standardize markers relative to the nondiseased population before including
them in the logistic regression model. Among the advantages of this method are
the following: (i) ensuring that results from regression and performance
assessments are consistent with each other; (ii) allowing covariate adjustment
and covariate effects on ROC curves to be handled in a familiar way, and (iii)
providing a mechanism to incorporate important assumptions about structure in
the ROC curve into the fitted risk model. We develop the method in detail for
the problem of combining biomarker data sets derived from multiple studies,
populations or biomarker measurement platforms, when ROC curves are similar
across data sources. The methods are applicable to both cohort and case-control
sampling designs. The data set motivating this application concerns Prostate
Cancer Antigen 3 (PCA3) for diagnosis of prostate cancer in patients with or
without previous negative biopsy where the ROC curves for PCA3 are found to be
the same in the two populations. The estimated constrained maximum likelihood
and empirical likelihood estimators are derived. The estimators are compared in
simulation studies and the methods are illustrated with the PCA3 data set.