Research results from solar-dynamo models show the northern and southern
hemispheres may evolve separately throughout the solar cycle. The observed
phase lag between the hemispheres provides information regarding the strength
of hemispheric coupling. Using hemispheric sunspot-area and sunspot-number data
from Cycles 12 - 23, we determine how out of phase the separate hemispheres are
during the rising, maximum, and declining period of each solar cycle.
Hemispheric phase differences range from 0 - 11, 0 - 14, and 2 - 19 months for
the rising, maximum, and declining periods, respectively. The phases appear
randomly distributed between zero months (in phase) and half of the rise (or
decline) time of the solar cycle. An analysis of the Gnevyshev gap is conducted
to determine if the double-peak is caused by the averaging of two hemispheres
that are out of phase. We confirm previous findings that the Gnevyshev gap is a
phenomenon that occurs in the separate hemispheres and is not due to a
superposition of sunspot indices from hemispheres slightly out of phase. Cross
hemispheric coupling could be strongest at solar minimum, when there are large
quantities of magnetic flux at the Equator. We search for a correlation between
the hemispheric phase difference near the end of the solar cycle and the length
of solar-cycle minimum, but found none. Because magnetic flux diffusion across
the Equator is a mechanism by which the hemispheres couple, we measured the
magnetic flux crossing the Equator by examining magnetograms for Solar Cycles
21 - 23. We find, on average, a surplus of northern hemisphere magnetic flux
crossing during the mid-declining phase of each solar cycle. However, we find
no correlation between magnitude of magnetic flux crossing the Equator, length
of solar minima, and phase lag between the hemispheres.