We investigate the photon-trapping effects in the super-critical black hole
accretion flows by solving radiation transfer as well as the energy equations
of radiation and gas. It is found that the slim-disk model generally
overestimates the luminosity of the disk at around the Eddington luminosity
(L_E) and is not accurate in describing the effective temperature profile,
since it neglects time delay between energy generation at deeper inside the
disk and energy release at the surface. Especially, the photon-trapping effects
are appreciable even below L ~ L_E, while they appear above ~ 3L_E according to
the slim disk. Through the photon-trapping effects, the luminosity is reduced
and the effective temperature profile becomes flatter than r^{-3/4} as in the
standard disk. In the case that the viscous heating is effective only around
the equatorial plane, the luminosity is kept around the Eddington luminosity
even at very large mass accretion rate, Mdot>>L_E/c^2. The effective
temperature profile is almost flat, and the maximum temperature decreases in
accordance with rise in the mass accretion rate. Thus, the most luminous radius
shifts to the outer region when Mdot/(L_E/c^2) >> 10^2. In the case that the
energy is dissipated equally at any heights, the resultant luminosity is
somewhat larger than in the former case, but the energy-conversion efficiency
still decreases with increase of the mass accretion rate, as well. The most
luminous radius stays around the inner edge of the disk in the latter case.
Hence, the effective temperature profile is sensitive to the vertical
distribution of energy production rates, so is the spectral shape. Future
observations of high L/L_E objects will be able to test our model.