Most measurements of critical current densities in
YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$ thin films to date have been performed on films
where the \textit{c}-axis is grown normal to the film surface. With such films,
the analysis of the dependence of $j_c$ on the magnetic field angle is complex.
The effects of extrinsic contributions to the angular field dependence of
$j_c$, such as the measurement geometry and disposition of pinning centres, are
convoluted with those intrinsically due to the anisotropy of the material. As a
consequence of this, it is difficult to distinguish between proposed FLL
structure models on the basis of angular critical current density measurements
on \textit{c}-axis films. Films grown on mis-cut (vicinal) substrates have a
reduced measurement symmetry and thus provide a greater insight into the
critical current anisotropy. In this paper previous descriptions of the
magnetic field angle dependence of $j_c$ in YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$ are
reviewed. Measurements on YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$ thin films grown on a
range of vicinal substrates are presented and the results interpreted in terms
of the structure and dimensionality of the FLL in YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$.
There is strong evidence for a transition in the structure of the flux line
lattice depending on magnetic field magnitude, orientation and temperature. As
a consequence, a simple scaling law can not, by itself, describe the observed
critical current anisotropy in YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$. The experimentally
obtained $j_c(\theta)$ behaviour of YBCO is successfully described in terms of
a kinked vortex structure for fields applied near parallel to the \textit{a-b}
planes.