Cavity growth in ductile metal materials under dynamic loading is
investigated via the material point method. Two typical cavity effects in the
region subjected to rarefaction wave are identified: (i) part of material
particles flow away from the cavity in comparison to the initial loading
velocity, (ii) local regions show weaker negative or even positive pressures.
Neighboring cavities interact via coalescence of isobaric contours. The growth
of cavity under tension shows staged behaviors. After the initial slow stage,
the volume and the dimensions in both the tensile and transverse directions
show linear growth rate with time until the global tensile wave arrives at the
upper free surface. It is interesting that the growth rate in the transverse
direction is faster than that in the tensile direction. The volume growth rate
linearly increases with the initial tensile velocity. After the global tensile
wave passed the cavity, both the maximum particle velocity in the tensile
direction and the maximum particle velocity in the opposite direction increase
logarithmically with the initial tensile speed. The shock wave reflected back
from the cavity and compression wave from the free surface induce the initial
behavior of interfacial instabilities such as the Richtmyer-Meshkov
instability, which is mainly responsible for the irregularity in the morphology
of deformed cavity. The local temperatures and distribution of hot spots are
determined by the plastic work. Compared with the dynamical process, the heat
conduction is much slower.