Spatially resolved polarized millimeter/submillimeter emission has been
observed in the disk of HL Tau and two other young stellar objects. It is
usually interpreted as coming from magnetically aligned grains, but can also be
produced by dust scattering, as demonstrated explicitly by Kataoka et al. for
face-on disks. We extend their work by including the polarization induced by
disk inclination with respect to the line of sight. Using a physically
motivated, semi-analytic model, we show that the polarization fraction of the
scattered light increases with the inclination angle $i$, reaching $1/3$ for
edge-on disks. The inclination-induced polarization can easily dominate that
intrinsic to the disk in the face-on view. It provides a natural explanation
for the two main features of the polarization pattern observed in the tilted
disk of HL Tau ($i \sim 45^\circ$): the polarized intensity concentrating in a
region elongated more or less along the major axis, and polarization in this
region roughly parallel to the minor axis. This broad agreement provides
support to dust scattering as a viable mechanism for producing, at least in
part, polarized millimeter radiation. In order to produce polarization at the
observed level ($\sim 1\%$), the scattering grains must have grown to a maximum
size of tens of microns. However, such grains may be too small to produce the
opacity spectral index of $\beta \lesssim 1$ observed in HL Tau and other
sources; another population of larger, millimeter/centimeter-sized, grains may
be needed to explain the bulk of the unpolarized continuum emission.