In experiments and in simulations, the free energy of a state of a system can
be determined from the probability that the state is occupied. However, it is
often necessary to impose a biasing potential on the system so that high energy
states are sampled with sufficient frequency. The unbiased energy is typically
obtained from the data using the weighted histogram analysis method (WHAM).
Here we present differential energy surface analysis (DESA), in which the
gradient of the energy surface, dE/dx, is extracted from data taken with a
series of harmonic biasing potentials. It is shown that DESA produces a maximum
likelihood estimate of the folding landscape gradient. DESA is demonstrated by
analyzing data from a simulated system as well as data from a single-molecule
unfolding experiment in which the end-to-end distance of a DNA hairpin is
measured. It is shown that the energy surface obtained from DESA is
indistinguishable from the energy surface obtained when WHAM is applied to the
same data. Two criteria are defined which indicate whether the DESA results are
self-consistent. It is found that these criteria can detect a situation where
the energy is not a single-valued function of the measured reaction coordinate.
The criteria were found to be satisfied for the experimental data analyzed,
confirming that end-to-end distance is a good reaction coordinate for the
experimental system. The combination of DESA and the optical trap assay in
which a structure is disrupted under harmonic constraint facilitates an
extremely accurate measurement of the folding energy surface.