We report measurements and analysis of high-velocity (> 20,000 km/s) and
photospheric absorption features in a series of spectra of the Type Ia
supernova (SN) 2009ig obtained between -14d and +13d with respect to the time
of maximum B-band luminosity. We identify lines of Si II, Si III, S II, Ca II
and Fe II that produce both high-velocity (HVF) and photospheric-velocity (PVF)
absorption features. SN 2009ig is unusual for the large number of lines with
detectable HVF in the spectra, but the light-curve parameters correspond to a
slightly overluminous but unexceptional SN Ia (M_B = -19.46 mag and Delta_m15
(B) = 0.90 mag). Similarly, the Si II lambda_6355 velocity at the time of B-max
is greater than "normal" for a SN Ia, but it is not extreme (v_Si = 13,400
km/s). The -14d and -13d spectra clearly resolve HVF from Si II lambda_6355 as
separate absorptions from a detached line forming region. At these very early
phases, detached HVF are prevalent in all lines. From -12d to -6d, HVF and PVF
are detected simultaneously, and the two line forming regions maintain a
constant separation of about 8,000 km/s. After -6d all absorption features are
PVF. The observations of SN 2009ig provide a complete picture of the transition
from HVF to PVF. Most SN Ia show evidence for HVF from multiple lines in
spectra obtained before -10d, and we compare the spectra of SN 2009ig to
observations of other SN. We show that each of the unusual line profiles for Si
II lambda_6355 found in early-time spectra of SN Ia correlate to a specific
phase in a common development sequence from HVF to PVF.