A self-consistent model for binary evolution devised by Gingold \& Monaghan
(1980) is used to show that two distinctly different types of behaviour are
possible for close eccentric binaries. The model is based on a linear adiabatic
normal mode analysis of the problem, which allows detailed examination of the
transfer of energy from the orbit to the tides. We show that for most binaries,
energy is exchanged quasi-periodically, with the system regulating itself so
that the maximum tidal energy always remains small, and no circularization
takes place. In contrast, for a range of eccentricities and periastron
separations, {\it chaotic} behaviour prevails, with the eccentricity following
a random walk and with the energy transferred to the tides during a single
periastron passage being up to an order of magnitude larger than that
transferred during the initial periastron passage.
  These results have important consequences for the study of tidal capture
binaries. The standard model (see, for example, McMillan, McDermott \& Taam
1987) assumes that the energy transferred to the tides during a periastron
encounter is independent of the oscillatory state of the stars, and that the
amount of tidal energy present at any time can be calculated using a formula
which (accurately) gives the amount deposited after the first encounter (Press
\& Teukolsky 1977). The calculations presented here show that a self-consistent
treatment is necessary in order to study the dynamical evolution of tidal
capture binaries. We conclude that the tidal capture process would not be
possible were it not for the existence of chaotic behaviour.