A viral population can contain a large and diverse collection of viral
haplotypes which play important roles in maintaining the viral population. We
present an algorithm for reconstructing viral haplotypes in a population from
paired-end Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data. We propose a novel polynomial
time dynamic programming based approximation algorithm for generating top paths
through each node in De Bruijn graph constructed from the paired-end NGS data.
We also propose two novel formulations for obtaining an optimal set of viral
haplotypes for the population using the paths generated by the approximation
algorithm. The first formulation obtains a maximum likelihood estimate of the
viral population given the observed paired-end reads. The second formulation
obtains a minimal set of viral haplotypes retaining the phylogenetic
information in the population. We evaluate our algorithm on simulated datasets
varying on mutation rates and genome length of the viral haplotypes. The
results of our method are compared to other methods for viral haplotype
estimation. While all the methods overestimate the number of viral haplotypes
in a population, the two proposed optimality formulations correctly estimate
the exact sequence of all the haplotypes in most datasets, and recover the
overall diversity of the population in all datasets. The haplotypes recovered
from popular methods are biased toward the reference sequence used for mapping
of reads, while the proposed formulations are reference-free and retain the
overall diversity in the population.