For the electroweak interactions, the massive neutrino perturbative
kinematical procedure is developed in the massive neutrino Fock space. This
yields the dominant Lorentz invariant Standard Model mass-less flavor neutrino
cross-sections as well as the neutrino oscillation cross-sections some of which
are Lorentz invariance and flavor conservation violating. But all these
oscillating cross-sections being proportional to the squares of neutrino masses
are practically unobservable in the laboratory; however, they are consistent
with the original Pontecorvo neutrino oscillating transition probability
expression at short time (baseline), as presented by Dvornikov. Then, by
mimicking the time dependence of the original Pontecorvo neutrino oscillating
transition probability, one can formulate the dimensionless neutrino
intensity-probability I, by phenomenological extrapolating the time t, or,
equivalently the baseline distance L away from the collision point for the
oscillating differential cross-section. For the incoming neutrino of 10MeV in
energy and neutrino masses from Fritzsch analysis with the neutrino mixing
matrix of Harrison, Perkins and Scott, the baseline distances at the first two
maxima of the neutrino intensity are L=281km and L=9279km . The intensity I at
the first maximum conserves the flavor, while at the second maximum; the
intensities violate the flavor, respectively, in the final and initial state.
At the end some details are given as to how these neutrino oscillations away
from the collision point one should be able to verify experimentally.