An unexpected intense outburst of the Draconid meteor shower was detected by
the Canadian Meteor Orbit Radar (CMOR) on October 8, 2012. The peak flux
occurred at ~16:40 UT on October 8 with a maximum of 2.4 +/- 0.3 hr-1 km-2
(appropriate to meteoroid mass larger than 10-7 kg), equivalent to a ZHRmax =
9000 +/- 1000 using 5-minute intervals, using a mass distribution index of s =
1.88 +/- 0.01 as determined from the amplitude distribution of underdense
Draconid echoes. This makes the out- burst among the strongest Draconid returns
since 1946 and the highest flux shower since the 1966 Leonid meteor storm,
assuming a constant power-law distribution holds from radar to visual meteoroid
sizes. The weighted mean geocentric radiant in the time interval of 15-19h UT,
Oct 8, 2012 was {\alpha}g = 262.4 +/- 0.1 deg, {\delta}g = 55.7 +/- 0.1 deg
(epoch J2000.0). Visual observers also reported increased activity around the
peak time, but with a much lower rate (ZHR 200), suggesting that the
magnitude-cumulative num- ber relationship is not a simple power-law. Ablation
modeling of the observed meteors as a population does not yield a unique
solution for the grain size and distribution of Draconid meteoroids, but is
consistent with a typical Draconid meteoroid of mtotal between 10-6 to 10-4 kg
being composed of 10 - 100 grains. Dynamical simulations indicate that the
outburst was caused by dust particles released during the 1966 per- ihelion
passage of the parent comet, 21P/Giacobini-Zinner, although there are dis-
crepancies between the modelled and observed timing of the encounter,
presumably caused by approaches of the comet to Jupiter during 1966-1972. Based
on the results of our dynamical simulation, we predict possible increased
activity of the Draconid meteor shower in 2018, 2019, 2021 and 2025.