The transition from a normal to cancerous cell requires a number of highly
specific mutations that affect cell cycle regulation, apoptosis,
differentiation, and many other cell functions. One hallmark of cancerous
genomes is genomic instability, with mutation rates far greater than those of
normal cells. In microsatellite instability (MIN tumors), these are often
caused by damage to mismatch repair genes, allowing further mutation of the
genome and tumor progression. These mutation rates may lie near the error
catastrophe found in the quasispecies model of adaptive RNA genomes, suggesting
that further increasing mutation rates will destroy cancerous genomes. However,
recent results have demonstrated that DNA genomes exhibit an error threshold at
mutation rates far lower than their conservative counterparts. Furthermore,
while the maximum viable mutation rate in conservative systems increases
indefinitely with increasing master sequence fitness, the semiconservative
threshold plateaus at a relatively low value. This implies a paradox, wherein
inaccessible mutation rates are found in viable tumor cells. In this paper, we
address this paradox, demonstrating an isomorphism between the conservatively
replicating (RNA) quasispecies model and the semiconservative (DNA) model with
post-methylation DNA repair mechanisms impaired. Thus, as DNA repair becomes
inactivated, the maximum viable mutation rate increases smoothly to that of a
conservatively replicating system on a transformed landscape, with an upper
bound that is dependent on replication rates. We postulate that inactivation of
post-methylation repair mechanisms are fundamental to the progression of a
tumor cell and hence these mechanisms act as a method for prevention and
destruction of cancerous genomes.