The properties of the bright and energetic Type Ic SN 1997ef are investigated
using a Monte Carlo spectrum synthesis code. Analysis of the earliest spectra
is used to determine the time of outburst. The changing features of the
spectrum and the light curve are used to probe the ejecta and to determine
their composition, verifying the results of explosion calculations. Since
synthetic spectra computed using our best explosion model CO100 are only
moderately good reproductions of the observations, the inverse approach is
adopted, and a density structure is derived by demanding that it gives the best
possible fit to the observed spectrum at every epoch analysed. It is found that
the density structure of model CO100 is adequate at intermediate velocities
(5000--25000 km/s), but that a slower density decline ($\rho \propto r^{-4}$)
is required to obtain the extensive line blending at high velocities
(25000--50000 km/s). The `best fit' density distribution results in somewhat
different parameters for the SN, namely an ejecta mass of 9.6$M_\odot$ and an
explosion kinetic energy of 1.75 x 10^{52} erg. The modified density structure
is used to compute a synthetic light curve, which is found to agree very well
with the observed bolometric light curve around maximum. The amount of
radioactive $^{56}$Ni produced by the SN is confirmed at 0.13$M_\odot$. In the
context of an axisymmetric explosion, a somewhat smaller kinetic energy than
that of SN 1998bw may have resulted from the non alignment of the symmetry axis
of the SN and the line of sight. This might also explain the lack of evidence
for a Gamma Ray Burst correlated with SN 1997ef.