In the fcc lattice of Pd, hydrogen occupies octahedral interstitial positions
with cubic symmetry. One could therefore expect that in dilute solid H
solutions in Pd the fundamental band of optical H vibrations should be reduced
to a narrow line of 3-fold degenerate, non-interacting isotropic local
oscillators. A few attempts to test this assumption by inelastic neutron
scattering gave ambiguous results due to the very small limiting hydrogen
concentration, x<0.001, of the PdH$_x$ solutions at low temperatures. We
increased maximum x by alloying Pd with 20 at% Au and studied disordered
Pd$_{0.8}$Au$_{0.2}$H$_{x}$ solutions with concentrations varying from x = 0.03
to 0.74. According to reported $^{197}$Au Mossbauer studies, hydrogen atoms in
the Pd$_{0.8}$Au$_{0.2}$H$_{x}$ solutions with x < (0.8)^{6} = 0.26 can only
occupy interstices having no Au neighbours. This abates the effect of H-Au
interactions in the solutions with lower H concentrations and effectively
prevents hydrogen clustering at low temperatures. Our INS investigation showed
that the fundamental optical H band in both concentrated and dilute
Pd$_{0.8}$Au$_{0.2}$H$_{x}$ solutions consists of a sharp peak with a broad
shoulder towards higher energies. The shoulder shows no tendency to vanish with
decreasing H concentration and amounts to approximately 0.44 integral intensity
of the main peak in all studied samples. The optical band in infinitely diluted
H solutions in Pd should therefore consist of a peak with a pronounced shoulder
too. Implications for the isotopic effects in the hydrogen solubility in Pd are
considered in the present paper.