Based on detailed 2D and 3D numerical radiation-hydrodynamics (RHD)
simulations of time-dependent compressible convection, we have studied the
dynamics and thermal structure of the convective surface layers of a
prototypical late-type M-dwarf (Teff~2800K log(g)=5.0, solar chemical
composition). The RHD models predict stellar granulation qualitatively similar
to the familiar solar pattern. Quantitatively, the granular cells show a
convective turn-over time scale of ~100s, and a horizontal scale of 80km; the
relative intensity contrast of the granular pattern amounts to 1.1%, and
root-mean-square vertical velocities reach 240m/s at maximum. Deviations from
radiative equilibrium in the higher, formally convectively stable atmospheric
layers are found to be insignificant allowing a reliable modeling of the
atmosphere with 1D standard model atmospheres. A mixing-length parameter of
alpha=2.1 provides the best representation of the average thermal structure of
the RHD model atmosphere while alternative values are found when fitting the
asymptotic entropy encountered in deeper layers of the stellar envelope
alpha=1.5, or when matching the vertical velocity field alpha=3.5. The close
correspondence between RHD and standard model atmospheres implies that
presently existing discrepancies between observed and predicted stellar colors
in the M-dwarf regime cannot be traced back to an inadequate treatment of
convection in the 1D standard models. The RHD models predict a modest extension
of the convectively mixed region beyond the formal Schwarzschild stability
boundary which provides hints for the distribution of dust grains in cooler
(brown dwarf) atmospheres.