The research of exoplanets has entered an era in which we characterize
extrasolar planets. This has become possible with measurements of radii and
luminosities. Meanwhile, radial velocity surveys discover also very low-mass
planets. Uniting all this observational data into one coherent picture to
better understand planet formation is an important, but difficult undertaking.
Our approach is to develop a model which can make testable predictions for all
these observational methods. We continue to describe how we have extended our
formation model into a self-consistently coupled formation and evolution model.
We show how we calculate the internal structure of the solid core and
radiogenic heating. We also improve the protoplanetary disk model. Finally, we
conduct population synthesis calculations. We present how the planetary
mass-radius relationship of planets with primordial H/He envelopes forms and
evolves in time. The basic shape of the M-R relation can be understood from the
core accretion model. Low-mass planets cannot bind massive envelopes, while
super-critical cores necessarily trigger runway gas accretion, leading to
"forbidden" zones in the M-R plane. For a given mass, there is a considerable
diversity of radii. We compare the synthetic M-R relation with the observed
one, finding good agreement for a>0.1 AU. The synthetic radius distribution is
characterized by a strong increase towards small R, and a second, lower local
maximum at ~1 Jovian radius. The increase towards small radii reflects the
increase of the mass function towards low M. The second local maximum is due to
the fact that radii are nearly independent of mass for giant planets. A
comparison of the synthetic radius distribution with Kepler data shows
agreement for R>2 Earth radii, but divergence for smaller radii. We predict
that in the next few years, Kepler should find the second, local maximum at ~1
Jovian radius.