The primary challenge of rocket propulsion is the burden of needing to
accelerate the spacecraft's own fuel, resulting in only a logarithmic gain in
maximum speed as propellant is added to the spacecraft. Light sails offer an
attractive alternative in which fuel is not carried by the spacecraft, with
acceleration being provided by an external source of light. By artificially
illuminating the spacecraft with beamed radiation, speeds are only limited by
the area of the sail, heat resistance of its material, and power use of the
accelerating apparatus. In this paper, we show that leakage from a light sail
propulsion apparatus in operation around a solar system analogue would be
detectable. To demonstrate this, we model the launch and arrival of a microwave
beam-driven light sail constructed for transit between planets in orbit around
a single star, and find an optimal beam frequency on the order of tens of GHz.
Leakage from these beams yields transients with flux densities of Jy and
durations of tens of seconds at 100 pc. Because most travel within a planetary
system would be conducted between the habitable worlds within that system,
multiply-transiting exoplanetary systems offer the greatest chance of
detection, especially when the planets are in projected conjunction as viewed
from Earth. If interplanetary travel via beam-driven light sails is commonly
employed in our galaxy, this activity could be revealed by radio follow-up of
nearby transiting exoplanetary systems. The expected signal properties define a
new strategy in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI).