This article proposes a new method to estimate an existing mutual information
based dependence measure using histogram density estimates. Finding a suitable
bin length for histogram is an open problem. We propose a new way of computing
the bin length for histogram using a function of maximum separation between
points. The chosen bin length leads to consistent density estimates for
histogram method. The values of density thus obtained are used to calculate an
estimate of an existing dependence measure. The proposed estimate is named as
Mutual Information Based Dependence Index (MIDI). Some important properties of
MIDI have also been stated. The performance of the proposed method has been
compared to generally accepted measures like Distance Correlation (dcor),
Maximal Information Coefficient (MINE) in terms of accuracy and computational
complexity with the help of several artificial data sets with different amounts
of noise. The proposed method is able to detect many types of relationships
between variables, without making any assumption about the functional form of
the relationship. The power statistics of proposed method illustrate their
effectiveness in detecting non linear relationship. Thus, it is able to achieve
generality without a high rate of false positive cases. MIDI is found to work
better on a real life data set than competing methods. The proposed method is
found to overcome some of the limitations which occur with dcor and MINE.
Computationally, MIDI is found to be better than dcor and MINE, in terms of
time and memory, making it suitable for large data sets.