The Mars Global Surveyor (MGS), Mars Express (MEX), and Venus Express (VEX)
experienced several superior solar conjunctions. These conjunctions cause
severe degradations of radio signals when the line of sight between the Earth
and the spacecraft passes near to the solar corona region. The primary
objective of this work is to deduce a solar corona model from the spacecraft
navigation data acquired at the time of solar conjunctions and to estimate its
average electron density. The corrected or improved data are then used to fit
the dynamical modeling of the planet motions, called planetary ephemerides. We
analyzed the radio science raw data of the MGS spacecraft using the orbit
determination software GINS. The range bias, obtained from GINS and provided by
ESA for MEX and VEX, are then used to derive the electron density profile.
These profiles are obtained for different intervals of solar distances: from
12Rs to 215Rs for MGS, 6Rs to 152Rs for MEX, and form 12Rs to 154Rs for VEX.
They are acquired for each spacecraft individually, for ingress and egress
phases separately and both phases together, for different types of solar winds
(fast, slow), and for solar activity phases (minimum, maximum). We compared our
results with the previous estimations that were based on in situ measurements,
and on solar type III radio and radio science studies made at different phases
of solar activity and at different solar wind states. Our results are
consistent with estimations obtained by these different methods. Moreover,
fitting the planetary ephemerides including complementary data that were
corrected for the solar corona perturbations, noticeably improves the
extrapolation capability of the planetary ephemerides and the estimation of the
asteroids masses.