Over the last few years, the fruitful data provided by the Large Area
Telescope aboard the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope has revolutionized our
understanding of high-energy processes in globular clusters, particularly those
involving compact objects like millisecond pulsars (MSPs). Gamma-ray emission
between 100 MeV to 10 GeV has been detected from more than a dozen globular
clusters in our Galaxy, most notably 47 Tucanae and Terzan 5. Based on a sample
of known gamma-ray globular clusters, empirical relations between the gamma-ray
luminosity and properties of globular clusters such as stellar encounter rate,
metallicity, as well as optical and infrared photon energy density in the
cluster, have been derived. The gamma-ray spectra are generally described by a
power law with a cut-off at a few GeV. Together with the detection of pulsed
gamma-rays from a millisecond pulsar in a globular cluster, such spectral
signature gives support that gamma-rays from globular clusters are collective
curvature emission from magnetospheres of MSPs within the cluster. Alternative
models in which the inverse-Compton emission of relativistic electrons
accelerated close to MSPs or the pulsar wind nebula shocks have also been
suggested. Observations at >10 GeV by Fermi/LAT and atmospheric Cherenkov
telescopes like H.E.S.S.-II, MAGIC-II, VERITAS, and CTA will help to settle
some questions unanswered by current data. We also discuss TeV observations of
globular clusters, as well as observational prospects of gravitational waves
from double neutron stars in globular clusters.