Having ruled out the possibility that stellar objects are the main
contributor of the dark matter embedding galaxies, microlensing experiments
cannot exclude the hypothesis that a significant fraction of the Milky Way dark
halo might be made of MACHOs with masses in the range $0.5-0.8 \msun$. Ancient
white dwarfs are generally considered the most plausible candidates for such
MACHOs. We report the results of a search for such white dwarfs in a proper
motion survey covering a 0.16 sqd field at three epochs at high galactic
latitude, and 0.938 sqd at two epochs at intermediate galactic latitude (VIRMOS
survey), using the CFH telescope. Both surveys are complete to I = 23, with
detection efficiency fading to 0 at I = 24.2. Proper motion data are suitable
to separate unambiguously halo white dwarfs identified by belonging to a non
rotating system. No candidates were found within the colour-magnitude-proper
motion volume where such objects can be safely discriminated from any standard
population as well as from possible artefacts. In the same volume, we estimate
the maximum white dwarf halo fraction compatible with this observation at
different significance levels if the halo is at least 14 gigayears old and
under different ad hoc initial mass functions. Our data alone rules out a halo
fraction greater than 14% at 95% confidence level. Combined with two previous
investigations exploring comparable volumes pushes the limit below 4 % (95%
confidence level) or below 1.3% (64% confidence), this implies that if baryonic
dark matter is present in galaxy halos, it is not, or it is only marginally in
the form of faint hydrogen white dwarfs.