Superconductivity of doped SrTiO3,remaining enigmatic for half a century, is
proven to be a particular case of the broader concept of the non-adiabatic
pairing mediated by phonons with frequency comparable or larger the Fermi
energy. We argue that, for carrier concentrations exceeding that of the
mobility edge, the superconductivity of doped SrTiO3 is mediated by interaction
of electrons with several longitudinal (LO) optical polar phonons with
frequency much larger than the Fermi energy. The electronic spectrum of SrTiO3
consists at low temperatures of three conduction bands which are successively
doped. Each band contributes to the Cooper instability and exhibits a
superconducting gap in the energy spectrum. The theory presented below predicts
maxima in dependence of Tc(n)-the transition temperature on n, the number of
electrons owing to the following mechanism. Doping by electrons increases
density of states at the Fermi surface and Tc initially grows up. At the same
time, screening on the part of accumulating charges tends to reduce amplitude
of the electrical fields inherent in LO phonon modes and at larger
concentrations the matrix element of interaction between electrons and LO
phonons decreases. The compromise between the two tendencies leads to maxima in
the Tc(n)-dependence providing interpretation to one of the most intriguing
experimental findings in Xiao Lin et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 207002 (2014)].
Having reached a maximum in the third band, the superconducting transition
finally decreases, rounding out the Tc(n)-dome, the three maxima in Tc(n)with
accompanying superconducting gaps emerging consecutively as electrons fill
successive bands. This arises from attributes of the LO optical phonon pairing
mechanism. More generally, the mechanism opens prospect of increasing
temperature of the superconducting transition in transition-metals oxides and
other polar crystals.