Spectral index images can be used to constraint the energy spectrum of
relativistic electrons and magnetic field distribution in radio halos and
relics, providing useful information to understand their formation, evolution
and connection to cluster merger processes. We present low-frequency images of
the two clusters of galaxies: A2744 and A2219, in which a wide diffuse emission
is detected. Observations were made with the Very Large Array at the frequency
of 325 MHz. For both clusters deep Very Large Array 1.4 GHz observations are
available. Combining the 325 MHz and 1.4 GHz data, we obtained the spectral
index images and the brightness radial profiles of the diffuse radio emission
with a resolution of ~ 1'. The azimuthally averaged spectral index in A2744 is
constant to a value close to alpha ~ 1 up to a distance of 1 Mpc from the
cluster center. However, the spectral index image shows the presence of
localized regions in which the radio spectrum is significantly different from
the average. The observed spectral index variations range from a minimum of
alpha ~ 0.7 +/- 0.1 to a maximum alpha ~ 1.5 +/- 0.2. From the comparison of
the spectral index with the X-rays data it is found for the first time that the
flat spectrum regions of the radio halo tend to have higher temperature. In the
case of A2219, the radio emission in the central regions of the cluster is
dominated by the blend of discrete sources. The azimuthally averaged radio
spectrum is alpha ~ 0.8 in the central region of the cluster and is close to a
value of alpha ~ 1 in the radio halo. The limited sensitivity of the 325 MHz
image does not allowed us to detect all the radio halo structure seen at 1.4
GHz and therefore no constrains on the point-to-point variations of the
spectral index have been obtained for this cluster.