In this article we will discuss a Lorentzian sector calculation of the
entropy of a minimally coupled scalar field in the Schwarzschild and in the
Reissner-Nordstrom black hole backgrounds using the brick wall model of t'
Hooft. We will use the semiclassical WKB approximation and find the possible
states using the WKB quantization rule which is similar to the semiclassical
Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule. In a previous article we found that the WKB
quantization rule together with a proper counting of the states lead to a new
expression for the matter field entropy which is not proportional to the area
of the horizon. The expression of the entropy is logarithmically divergent in
the brick wall cut-off parameter in contrary to an inverse power divergence
obtained earlier. In this article we will first show that similar situation
remains to be valid for the non-extreme Reissner-Nordstrom black hole
background. We will next consider the modes which are not globally stationary
and are confined near the horizon. The results indicate the regions in which
the WKB approximation holds better and we will consider the entropy for a thin
shell of matter field of a given thickness surrounding the black hole horizon.
The thickness is chosen to be large compared to the Planck length. We will
discuss the corresponding boundary conditions and the appropriateness of the
WKB approximation using the Regge-Wheeler tortoise coordinates. When expressed
in terms of a covariant cut-off parameter, the entropy of a thin shell of
matter field of a given thickness and surrounding the horizon in the
Schwarzschild black hole background is given by an expression proportional to
the area of the black hole horizon. This leading order divergent term in the
cut-off parameter remains to be logarithmically divergent.