We calculate synchrotron radio emission and gamma-ray emission due to
bremsstrahlung, inverse-Compton scattering and $pi^0$-decay from the remnant of
supernova which exploded in the circumstellar matter (CSM) formed by the
progenitor's stellar wind. This sort of situation is a possible origin of
mixed-morphology supernova remnants (SNRs) like W49B, which exhibit
recombination-radiation spectra in X-ray emission. We assume that the CSM of
1.5 $M_{odot}$ exists at 0.07--3 pc away from the supernova in the interstellar
medium (ISM) of density 0.016 cm$^{-3}$. When the blast wave breaks out of the
CSM into the ISM, its velocity rapidly increases and hence particle
acceleration is enhanced. The maximum energy of protons reaches $sim$ 1300 TeV
just after the break-out with $sim$ 0.5% of the explosion energy. We consider
the non-thermal emission from the blast-shocked ISM shell after the break-out.
Synchrotron radio flux at 1 GHz is tens Jy, comparable to the observed from
mixed-morphology SNRs. Because of low density, the gamma-ray luminosity is
dominated by inverse-Compton scattering, which is higher than the $pi^0$-decay
luminosity by an order of magnitude. The total gamma-ray luminosity including
bremsstrahlung is of the order of $10^{33}$ erg s$^{-1}$ lower than the typical
value $10^{35}$--$10^{36}$ erg s$^{-1}$ observed from mixed-morphology SNRs.
However, if, e.g., $sim$10% of accelerated protons interact with some matter of
density $sim$100 cm$^{-3}$, $pi^0$-decay gamma-ray luminosity would be enhanced
to be comparable with the observed value.