V2672 Oph reached maximum brightness V=11.35 on 2009 August 16.5. With
observed t2(V)=2.3 and t3(V)=4.2 days decline times, it is one of the fastest
known novae, being rivalled only by V1500 Cyg (1975) and V838 Her (1991) among
classical novae, and U Sco among the recurrent ones. The line of sight to the
nova passes within a few degrees of the Galactic centre. The reddening of V2672
Oph is E(B-V)=1.6 +/-0.1, and its distance ~19 kpc places it on the other side
of the Galactic centre at a galacto-centric distance larger than the solar one.
The lack of an infrared counterpart for the progenitor excludes the donor star
from being a cool giant like in RS Oph or T CrB. With close similarity to U
Sco, V2672 Oph displayed a photometric plateau phase, a He/N spectrum
classification, extreme expansion velocities and triple peaked emission line
profiles during advanced decline. The full width at zero intensity of Halpha
was 12,000 km/s at maximum, and declined linearly in time with a slope very
similar to that observed in U Sco. We infer a WD mass close to the
Chandrasekhar limit and a possible final fate as a SNIa. Morpho-kinematical
modelling of the evolution of the Halpha profile suggests that the overall
structure of the ejecta is that of a prolate system with polar blobs and an
equatorial ring. The density in the prolate system appeared to decline faster
than that in the other components. V2672 Oph is seen pole-on, with an
inclination of 0+/-6 deg and an expansion velocity of the polar blobs of 4800
+900/-800 km/s. On the basis of its remarkable similarity to U Sco, we suspect
this nova may be a recurrent. Given the southern declination, the faintness at
maximum, the extremely rapid decline and its close proximity to the Ecliptic,
it is quite possible that previous outbursts of V2672 Oph have been missed.