The evolution of the electronic structure and magnetic properties with Co
substitution for Fe in the solid solution Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$Ga$_3$ was studied by
means of electrical resistivity, magnetization, ab-initio band structure
calculations, and nuclear spin-lattice relaxation $1/T_1$ of the $^{69,71}$Ga
nuclei. Temperature dependencies of the electrical resistivity reveal that the
evolution from the semiconducting to the metallic state in the
Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$Ga$_3$ system occurs at $0.025<x<0.075$. The $^{69,71}(1/T_1)$
was studied as a function of temperature in a wide temperature range of
$2\!-\!300$ K for the concentrations $x = 0.0,$ $0.5,$ and $1.0$. In the parent
semiconducting compound FeGa$_3$, the temperature dependence of the
$^{69}(1/T_1)$ exhibits a huge maximum at about $T\!\sim\!6$ K indicating the
existence of in-gap states. The opposite binary compound, CoGa$_3$,
demonstrates a metallic Korringa behavior with $1/T_1$ $\propto T$. In
Fe$_{0.5}$Co$_{0.5}$Ga$_3$, the relaxation is strongly enhanced due to spin
fluctuations and follows $1/T_1\propto T^{1/2}$, which is a unique feature of
weakly and nearly antiferromagnetic metals. This itinerant antiferromagnetic
behavior contrasts with both magnetization measurements, showing localized
magnetism with a relatively low effective moment of about 0.7 $\mu_B$/f.u., and
ab initio band structure calculations, where a ferromagnetic state with an
ordered moment of 0.5 $\mu_B$/f.u. is predicted. The results are discussed in
terms of the interplay betwen the localized and itinerant magnetizm including
in-gap states and spin fluctuations.