Since 2001, the radio quasar 3C 454.3 has undergone a period of high optical
activity, culminating in the brightest optical state ever observed, during the
2004-2005 outburst. The Whole Earth Blazar Telescope (WEBT) consortium has
carried out several multifrequency campaigns to follow the source behaviour.
The GLAST-AGILE Support Program (GASP) was born from the WEBT to provide
long-term continuous optical-to-radio monitoring of a sample of gamma-loud
blazars, during the operation of the AGILE and GLAST (now known as Fermi GST)
gamma-ray satellites. The main aim is to shed light on the mechanisms producing
the high-energy radiation, through correlation analysis with the low-energy
emission. Thus, since 2008 the monitoring task on 3C 454.3 passed from the WEBT
to the GASP, while both AGILE and Fermi detected strong gamma-ray emission from
the source. We present the main results obtained by the GASP at optical, mm,
and radio frequencies in the 2008-2009 season, and compare them with the WEBT
results from previous years. An optical outburst was observed to peak in mid
July 2008, when Fermi detected the brightest gamma-ray levels. A
contemporaneous mm outburst maintained its brightness for a longer time, until
the cm emission also reached the maximum levels. The behaviour compared in the
three bands suggests that the variable relative brightness of the
different-frequency outbursts may be due to the changing orientation of a
curved inhomogeneous jet. The optical light curve is very well sampled during
the entire season, which is also well covered by the various AGILE and Fermi
observing periods. The relevant cross-correlation studies will be very
important in constraining high-energy emission models.