This study is aimed at making a calculation about the impact of the two most
commonly used solar EUV flux models -- SOLAR2000 (S2K) of \cite{Tobiska04} and
EUVAC model of \cite{Richards94} -- on photoelectron fluxes, volume emission
rates, ion densities and CO Cameron and CO$_2^+$ UV doublet band dayglow
emissions on Mars in three solar activity conditions: minimum, moderate, and
maximum. Calculated limb intensities profiles are compared with SPICAM/Mars
Express and Mariner observations. Analytical yield spectrum (AYS) approach has
been used to calculate photoelectron fluxes in Martian upper atmosphere.
Densities of prominent ions and CO molecule in excited triplet a$^3\Pi$ state
are calculated using major ion-neutral reactions. Volume emission rates of CO
Cameron and CO$_2^+$ UV doublet bands have been calculated for dif{}ferent
observations (Viking condition, Mariner and Mars Express SPICAM observations)
on Mars. For the low solar activity condition, dayglow intensities calculated
using the S2K model are $\sim$40% higher than those calculated using the EUVAC
model. During high solar activity, due to the higher EUV fluxes at wavelengths
below 250 \AA\ in the EUVAC model, intensities calculated using EUVAC model are
slightly higher ($\sim$20%) than those calculated using S2K model. Irrespective
of the solar activity condition, production of Cameron band due to
photodissociative excitation of CO$_2$ is around 50% higher when S2K model is
used. Altitude of peak limb brightness of CO Cameron and CO$_2^+$ UV doublet
band is found to be independent of solar EUV flux models. Calculated limb
intensities of CO Cameron and CO$_2^+$ UV doublet bands are on an average a
factor of $\sim$2 and $\sim$1.5, respectively, higher than the SPICAM Mars
Express observation, while they are consistent with the Mariner observations.