The modest significance of most sources detected in current submm surveys can
potentially compromise some analyses due to the inclusion of spurious sources
in catalogues typically selected at >3.0-3.5sigma. Here, we develop and apply a
dual-survey extraction technique to SCUBA and MAMBO images of the Lockman Hole.
Cut above 5sigma, our catalogue of SMGs is more robust than previous samples,
with a reduced likelihood of real, but faint SMGs (beneath and around the
confusion limit) entering via superposition with noise. The effective flux
limit of the survey is well matched to our deep 1.4-GHz image. The former is
sensitive to luminous, dusty galaxies at extreme redshifts whilst the latter
probes the z<3 regime. A high fraction of our robust SMGs (~80%) have radio
counterparts which, given the ~10% contamination by spurious sources, suggests
that very distant SMGs (z>>3) are unlikely to make up more than ~10% of the
bright SMG population. This implies that almost all of the bright SMG
population is amenable to study via the deepest current radio imaging. We use
these radio counterparts to provide an empirical calibration of the positional
uncertainty in SMG catalogues. We then go on to outline the acquisition of
redshifts for radio-identified SMGs, from sample selection in the submm, to
counterpart selection in the radio and optical/IR, to slit placement on
spectrograph masks. We determine a median of z=2.05 +/- 0.41 from a sample of
six secure redshifts for unambigious radio-identified submm sources and z=2.14
+/- 0.27 when we include submm sources with multiple radio counterparts and/or
less reliable redshifts. These figures are consistent with previous estimates,
suggesting that our knowledge of the median redshift of bright SMGs population
has not been biased by the low significance of the source catalogues employed.