We present broad-band and spectropolarimetry of the Type Ia SN 1996X obtained
on April 14, 1996 (UT), and broad-band polarimetry of SN 1996X on May 22,1996,
when the supernova was about a week before and 4 weeks after optical maximum,
respectively. The Stokes parameters derived from the broad-band polarimetry are
consistent with zero polarization. The spectropolarimetry, however, shows broad
spectral features which are due intrinsically to an asymmetric SN atmosphere.
The spectral features in the flux spectrum and the polarization spectrum show
correlations in the wavelength range from 4900 AA up to 5500 AA. The degree of
this intrinsic component is low (<0.3 %). Theoretical polarization spectra have
been calculated. It is shown that the polarization spectra are governed by line
blending. Consequently, for similar geometrical distortions, the residual
polarization is smaller by about a factor of 2 to 3 compared to the less
blended Type II atmosphere, making it intrinsically harder to detect
asphericities in SNIa. Comparison with theoretical model polarization spectra
shows a resemblance to the observations. Taken literally, this implies an
asphericity of about 11 % in the chemical distribution in the region of partial
burning. This may not imperil the use of Type Ia supernovae as standard candles
for distance determination, but nontheless poses a source of uncertainty. SN
1996X is the first Type Ia supernova for which spectropolarimetry revealed a
polarized component intrinsic to the supernova and the first Type Ia with
spectropolarimetry well prior to optical maximum.