We consider a CNF formula $F$ as a multiset of clauses: $F=\{c_1,..., c_m\}$.
The set of variables of $F$ will be denoted by $V(F)$. Let $B_F$ denote the
bipartite graph with partite sets $V(F)$ and $F$ and with an edge between $v
\in V(F)$ and $c \in F$ if $v \in c$ or $\bar{v} \in c$. The matching number
$\nu(F)$ of $F$ is the size of a maximum matching in $B_F$. In our main result,
we prove that the following parameterization of {\sc MaxSat} (denoted by
$(\nu(F)+k)$-\textsc{SAT}) is fixed-parameter tractable: Given a formula $F$,
decide whether we can satisfy at least $\nu(F)+k$ clauses in $F$, where $k$ is
the parameter.
  A formula $F$ is called variable-matched if $\nu(F)=|V(F)|.$ Let
$\delta(F)=|F|-|V(F)|$ and $\delta^*(F)=\max_{F'\subseteq F} \delta(F').$ Our
main result implies fixed-parameter tractability of {\sc MaxSat} parameterized
by $\delta(F)$ for variable-matched formulas $F$; this complements related
results of Kullmann (2000) and Szeider (2004) for {\sc MaxSat} parameterized by
$\delta^*(F)$.
  To obtain our main result, we reduce $(\nu(F)+k)$-\textsc{SAT} into the
following parameterization of the {\sc Hitting Set} problem (denoted by
$(m-k)$-{\sc Hitting Set}): given a collection $\cal C$ of $m$ subsets of a
ground set $U$ of $n$ elements, decide whether there is $X\subseteq U$ such
that $C\cap X\neq \emptyset$ for each $C\in \cal C$ and $|X|\le m-k,$ where $k$
is the parameter. Gutin, Jones and Yeo (2011) proved that $(m-k)$-{\sc Hitting
Set} is fixed-parameter tractable by obtaining an exponential kernel for the
problem. We obtain two algorithms for $(m-k)$-{\sc Hitting Set}: a
deterministic algorithm of runtime $O((2e)^{2k+O(\log^2 k)} (m+n)^{O(1)})$ and
a randomized algorithm of expected runtime $O(8^{k+O(\sqrt{k})} (m+n)^{O(1)})$.
Our deterministic algorithm improves an algorithm that follows from the
kernelization result of Gutin, Jones and Yeo (2011).