In a body periodically strained by tides, heating produced by viscous
friction is far from homogeneous. I show here that the distribution of the
dissipated power within a spherically stratified body is a linear combination
of three angular functions. These angular functions depend only on the tidal
potential whereas the radial weights are specified by the internal structure of
the body. The 3D problem of predicting spatial patterns of dissipation at all
radii is thus reduced to the 1D problem of computing weight functions. I
compute spatial patterns in various toy models without assuming a specific
rheology: a viscoelastic thin shell stratified in conductive and convective
layers, an incompressible homogeneous body and a two-layer model of uniform
density with a liquid or rigid core. For a body in synchronous rotation
undergoing eccentricity tides, dissipation in a mantle surrounding a liquid
core is highest at the poles. Within a softer layer (asthenosphere or icy
layer), the same tides generate maximum heating in the equatorial region with a
significant degree-four structure if the layer is thin. Tidal heating patterns
are thus of three main types: mantle dissipation (including the case of a
floating icy crust), dissipation in a thin soft layer and dissipation in a
thick soft layer. I illustrate the method with applications to Europa, Titan
and Io. The formalism described in this paper applies to dissipation within
solid layers of planets and satellites for which internal spherical symmetry
and viscoelastic linear rheology are good approximations.