We have analyzed the projected galaxy distributions in a subset of the ENACS/
COSMOS cluster sample. We made Maximum-Likelihood fits to the distribution of
COSMOS galaxies for 4 theoretical profiles, with `cores' (generalized King- and
Hubble-profiles) and with `cusps' (generalized Navarro et al., or NFW, and de
Vaucouleurs profiles). We use the Likelihood ratio to investigate whether the
observations are better described by profiles with cusps or with cores. Taking
the King and NFW profiles as model of either class, we find that about 75% of
the clusters are better fitted by the King profile than by the NFW profile.
However, for the individual clusters the preference for the King profile is
rarely significant. When we limit ourselves to the central regions it appears
that the significance increases drastically, with 65% of the clusters showing a
strong preference for a King over an NFW profile. We constructed composite
clusters from the COSMOS and ENACS data, taking special care to avoid the
creation or the destruction of cusps. We scale by different ways (projected
distances, core radii, r_{200}).In all three cases we find that the King
profile is clearly preferred over the NFW profile. However, this preference is
not shared by the brightest galaxies. We conclude that these galaxies are
represented almost equally well by King and NFWprofiles, but that the
distribution of the fainter galaxies clearly shows a core rather than a cusp.
Finally, we compared the outer slope of the galaxy distributions in ourclusters
with results for model calculations with different cosmological parameters. We
conclude that the observed profile slope indicates a low value for Omega_0.
This is consistent with the direct estimate of Omega_0 based on the M/L ratios
of the individual clusters.