Other than any odd prime whose factor is contained by the given even number
2N, the odd primes within open interval (1, 2N - 1) were defined as effective
primes of 2N. Products which contain and only contain the effective prime
factor(s) of 2N were defined as effective products of 2N. Effective primes and
effective products of 2N were commonly named as effective integers of 2N.
  Let 2Nm - p(i, m) = {\alpha}(i, m) 2Nm - p(1, m) p(i, m) = {\beta}(i, m)
where, 2Nm is a given even number greater than 6, of which there are totally m
effective primes: 1<p(1, m)<p(2, m)<p(3, m)<...<p(m - 1, m)<p(m, m)<2Nm - 1; m
\geq 2; i = 1, 2, 3, ..., m, respectively; p(i, m) is the i-th minimum one
among the total m effective prime of 2Nm; p(1, m) and p(m, m) is the minimum
and maximum effective prime of 2Nm, respectively; {\alpha}(i, m) is an
effective integer of 2Nm within open interval (1, 2Nm - 1), respectively;
{\beta}(i, m) is a non-zero integer without any factor contained by 2Nm,
respectively.
  Based on the restrictions on the distributions of the m effective prime
factors of 2Nm over{\beta}(i, m) and the equivalence between the distribution
of M effective prime factors of 2NM over{\alpha}(i, M) and {\beta}(i, M) (i =
1, 2, 3, ..., M, respectively) when m = M and the distribution of the first M
effective prime factors of 2NM+1 over{\alpha}(i, M+1) and{\beta}(i, M+1) (i =
1, 2, 3, ..., M, respectively) when m =M+1, by using two-part method starting
from m = 2, Goldbach's theorem I was verified that at least two of{\beta}(i, m)
contain no any factor of effective primes of 2Nm, and, consequently,
in-equation p(1, m)p(m, m)\geq p(1, m)p(m -1, m) \geq 2Nm - 1always holds;
Goldbach's theorem II was verified that at least one of{\alpha}(i, m) equals an
effective prime of 2Nm.