In the latest in our series of papers on XMM-Newton and ground-based optical
follow-up of new candidate magnetic cataclysmic variables (mCVs) found in the
Sloan Digital Sky Survey, we report classifications of three systems: SDSS
J144659.95+025330.3, SDSS J205017.84-053626.8, and SDSS J210131.26+105251.5.
Both the X-ray and optical fluxes of SDSS J1446+02 are modulated on a period of
48.7+/-0.5 min, with the X-ray modulation showing the characteristic energy
dependence of photo-electric absorption seen in many intermediate polars (IP).
A longer period modulation and radial velocity variation is also seen at a
period around 4 hrs, though neither dataset set is long enough to constrain
this longer, likely orbital, period well. SDSS J2050-05 appears to be an
example of the most highly magnetized class of mCV, a disk-less, stream-fed
polar. Its 1.57 hr orbital period is well-constrained via optical eclipse
timings; in the X-ray it shows both eclipses and an underlying strong, smooth
modulation. In this case, broadly phase-resolved spectral fits indicate that
this change in flux is the result of a varying normalization of the dominant
component (a 41 keV MEKAL), plus the addition of a partial covering absorber
during the lower flux interval. SDSS J2101+10 is a more perplexing system to
categorize: its X-ray and optical fluxes exhibit no large periodic modulations;
there are only barely detectable changes in the velocity structure of its
optical emission lines; the X-ray spectra require only absorption by the
interstellar medium; and the temperatures of the MEKAL fits are low, with
maximum temperature components of either 10 or 25 keV. We conclude that SDSS
J2101+10 can not be an IP, nor likely a polar, but is rather most likely a disc
accretor-- a low inclination SW Sex star.