(Abridged) The orbits of the recently discovered satellites of Pluto, S/2005
P2 and S/2005 P1, are significantly non-Keplerian, even if P2 and P1 have
negligible masses, because the mass ratio of Charon-Pluto is ~0.1. We present
an analytic theory with P2 and P1 treated as test particles. This analytic
theory shows that the azimuthal periods of P2 and P1 are shorter than the
Keplerian orbital periods and that the periapse and ascending node of each of
the satellites precess at nearly equal rates in opposite directions. The
deviation from Kepler's third law is already detected in the unperturbed
Keplerian fit of Buie and coworkers. We also present direct numerical orbit
integrations with different assumed masses for P2 and P1 within the ranges
allowed by the albedo uncertainties. If the albedos are as high as that of
Charon, the masses of P2 and P1 are sufficiently low that their orbits are well
described by the analytic theory. There is at present no evidence that P2 has
any significant epicyclic eccentricity. However, the orbit of P1 has a
significant epicyclic eccentricity, and its prograde periapse precession with a
period of 5300 days should be easily detectable. If the albedos are as low as
that of comets, the large inferred masses induce significant variations in the
epicyclic eccentricities and/or periapse longitudes on the 400-500-day
timescales, due to the proximity of P2 and P1 to the 3:2 mean-motion
commensurability. In fact, for the maximum inferred masses, P2 and P1 may be in
the 3:2 mean-motion resonance, with the resonance variable involving the
periapse longitude of P1 librating. Observations that sample the orbits of P2
and P1 well on the 400-500-day timescales should provide strong constraints on
the masses of P2 and P1 in the near future.