Results of the analysis of spacecraft measurements at 1-5.4 AU are presented
within the scope of the large-scale interplanetary magnetic field (IMF)
structure investigation. The work is focused on revealing of the radial IMF
component (Br) variations with heliocentric distance and latitude as seen by
Ulysses. It was found out that |Br| decreases as ~r^-5/3 in the ecliptic plane
vicinity (10 deg. of latitude). This is consistent with the previous results
obtained on the basis of five spacecraft in-ecliptic measurements (Khabarova,
Obridko, 2012). The difference between the experimentally found (r^-5/3) and
commonly used (r^-2) radial dependence of Br may lead to mistakes in the IMF
recalculations from point to point in the heliosphere. This can be one of the
main sources of the 'magnetic flux excess' effect, which is exceeding of the
distantly measured magnetic flux over the values obtained through the
measurements at the Earth orbit. It is shown that the radial IMF component can
be considered as independent of heliolatitude in a rough approximation only.
More detailed analysis demonstrates an expressed |Br| (as well as the IMF
strength) increase in the latitudinal vicinity of 30 deg. relative to the
ecliptic plane. Also, a slight increase of the both parameters is observed in
the polar solar wind. The analysis of the latitudinal and radial dependences of
the Br distribution's bimodality is performed. The investigation has not
revealed any dependence between Br and the solar wind speed V. Meanwhile, the
two-peak distribution of the solar wind speed as measured by Ulysses is a
consequence of a strong latitudinal and solar cycle dependence of V. It is
shown that the solar wind speed in high latitudes (above 40 deg.)
anti-correlates with a solar activity: V is maximal during the solar cycle
minima, and it has a minimum at the maximum of solar activity.