Temperature-dependent inter-plane resistivity, $\rho_c(T)$, was measured for
the iron-based superconductor BaFe$_2$(As$_{1-x}$P$_x$)$_2$ over a broad
isoelectron phosphorus substitution range from $x$=0 to $x$=0.60, from
non-superconducting parent compound to heavily overdoped superconducting
composition with $T_c\approx 10 K$. The features due to structural and magnetic
transitions are clearly resolved in $\rho_c(T)$ of the underdoped crystals. A
characteristic maximum in $\rho_c(T)$, found in the parent BaFe$_2$As$_2$ at
around 200 K, moves rapidly with phosphorus substitution to high temperatures.
At the optimal doping, the inter-plane resistivity shows $T$-linear temperature
dependence without any cross-over anomalies, similar to the previously reported
in-plane resistivity. This observation is in stark contrast with dissimilar
temperature dependences found at optimal doping in electron-doped
Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$)$_2$As$_2$. Our finding suggests that despite similar
values of the resistivity and its anisotropy, the temperature dependent
transport in the normal state is very different in electron and isoelectron
doped compounds. Similar temperature dependence of both in-plane and
inter-plane resistivities, in which the dominant contributions are coming from
different parts of the Fermi surface, suggests that scattering is the same on
the whole Fermi surface. Since magnetic fluctuations are expected to be much
stronger on the quasi-nested sheets, this observation may point to the
importance of the inter-orbital scattering between different sheets.