Due to increased activity in high-throughput structural genomics efforts
around the globe, there has been an accumulation of experimental protein 3D
structures lacking functional annotation, thus creating a need for
structure-based protein function assignment methods. Computational prediction
of ligand binding sites (LBS) is a well-established protein function assignment
method. Here we apply the specific LBS detection algorithm we recently
described (Reyes, V.M. & Sheth, V.N., 2011; Reyes, V.M., 2015a) to some 801
functionally unannotated experimental structures in the Protein Data Bank by
screening for the binding sites (BS) of 6 biologically important ligands: GTP
in small Ras-type G-proteins, ATP in ser/thr protein kinases, sialic acid
(SIA), retinoic acid (REA), and heme-bound and unbound (free) nitric oxide
(hNO, fNO). Validation of the algorithm for the GTP- and ATP-binding sites has
been previously described in detail (ibid.); here, validation for the BSs of
the 4 other ligands shows both good specificity and sensitivity. Of the 801
structures screened, 8 tested positive for GTP binding, 61 for ATP binding, 35
for SIA binding, 132 for REA binding, 33 for hNO binding, and 10 for fNO
binding. Using the cutting plane and tangent sphere methods we described
previously, (Reyes, V.M., 2015b), we also determined the depth of burial of the
LBSs detected above and compared the values with those from the respective
training structures, and the degree of similarity between the two values taken
as a further validation of the predicted LBSs. Applying this criterion, we were
able to narrow down the predicted GTP-binding proteins to 2, the ATP-binding
proteins to 13, the SIA-binding proteins to 2, the REA-binding proteins to 14,
the hNO-binding proteins to 4, and the fNO-binding proteins to 1. We believe
this further criterion increases the confidence level of our LBS predictions.