The rotational evolution of Mercury's mantle and its core under conservative
and dissipative torques is important for understanding the planet's spin state.
Dissipation results from tides and viscous, magnetic and topographic
core--mantle interactions. The dissipative core--mantle torques take the system
to an equilibrium state wherein both spins are fixed in the frame precessing
with the orbit, and in which the mantle and core are differentially rotating.
This equilibrium exhibits a mantle spin axis that is offset from the Cassini
state by larger amounts for weaker core--mantle coupling for all three
dissipative core--mantle coupling mechanisms, and the spin axis of the core is
separated farther from that of the mantle, leading to larger differential
rotation. The relatively strong core--mantle coupling necessary to bring the
mantle spin axis to its observed position close to the Cassini state is not
obtained by any of the three dissipative core--mantle coupling mechanisms. For
a hydrostatic ellipsoidal core--mantle boundary, pressure coupling dominates
the dissipative effects on the mantle and core positions, and dissipation
together with pressure coupling brings the mantle spin solidly to the Cassini
state. The core spin goes to a position displaced from that of the mantle by
about 3.55 arcmin nearly in the plane containing the Cassini state. With the
maximum viscosity considered of $\nu\sim 15.0\,{\rm cm^2/s}$ if the coupling is
by the circulation through an Ekman boundary layer or $\nu\sim 8.75\times
10^5\,{\rm cm^2/s}$ for purely viscous coupling, the core spin lags the
precessing Cassini plane by 23 arcsec, whereas the mantle spin lags by only
0.055 arcsec. Larger, non hydrostatic values of the CMB ellipticity also result
in the mantle spin at the Cassini state, but the core spin is moved closer to
the mantle spin.