The problem of finding a reduced dimensionality representation of categorical
variables while preserving their most relevant characteristics is fundamental
for the analysis of complex data. Specifically, given a co-occurrence matrix of
two variables, one often seeks a compact representation of one variable which
preserves information about the other variable. We have recently introduced
``Sufficient Dimensionality Reduction' [GT-2003], a method that extracts
continuous reduced dimensional features whose measurements (i.e., expectation
values) capture maximal mutual information among the variables. However, such
measurements often capture information that is irrelevant for a given task.
Widely known examples are illumination conditions, which are irrelevant as
features for face recognition, writing style which is irrelevant as a feature
for content classification, and intonation which is irrelevant as a feature for
speech recognition. Such irrelevance cannot be deduced apriori, since it
depends on the details of the task, and is thus inherently ill defined in the
purely unsupervised case. Separating relevant from irrelevant features can be
achieved using additional side data that contains such irrelevant structures.
This approach was taken in [CT-2002], extending the information bottleneck
method, which uses clustering to compress the data. Here we use this
side-information framework to identify features whose measurements are
maximally informative for the original data set, but carry as little
information as possible on a side data set. In statistical terms this can be
understood as extracting statistics which are maximally sufficient for the
original dataset, while simultaneously maximally ancillary for the side
dataset. We formulate this tradeoff as a constrained optimization problem and
characterize its solutions. We then derive a gradient descent algorithm for
this problem, which is based on the Generalized Iterative Scaling method for
finding maximum entropy distributions. The method is demonstrated on synthetic
data, as well as on real face recognition datasets, and is shown to outperform
standard methods such as oriented PCA.