The remarkable improvement in the estimates of different cosmological
parameters in recent years has been largely spearheaded by accurate
measurements of the angular power spectrum of Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB)
radiation. This has required removal of foreground contamination as well as
detector noise bias with reliability and precision. Recently, a novel
model-independent method for the estimation of CMB angular power spectrum from
multi-frequency observations has been proposed and implemented on the first
year WMAP (WMAP-1) data by Saha et al.~2006. We review the results from WMAP-1
and also present the new angular power spectrum based on three years of the
WMAP data (WMAP-3). Previous estimates have depended on foreground templates
built using extraneous observational input to remove foreground contamination.
This is the first demonstration that the CMB angular spectrum can be reliably
estimated with precision from a self contained analysis of the WMAP data. The
primary product of WMAP are the observations of CMB in 10 independent
difference assemblies (DA) distributed over 5 frequency bands that have
uncorrelated noise. Our method utilizes maximum information available within
WMAP data by linearly combining DA maps from different frequencies to remove
foregrounds and estimating the power spectrum from the 24 cross power spectra
of clean maps that have independent noise. An important merit of the method is
that the expected residual power from unresolved point sources is significantly
tempered to a constant offset at large multipoles (in contrast to the ~l^2
contribution expected from a Poisson distribution) leading to a small
correction at large multipoles. Hence, the power spectrum estimates are less
susceptible to uncertainties in the model of point sources.