The Oe stars HD45314 and HD60848 have recently been found to exhibit very
different X-ray properties: whilst HD60848 has an X-ray spectrum and emission
level typical of most OB stars, HD45314 features a much harder and brighter
X-ray emission, making it a so-called gamma Cas analogue. Monitoring the
optical spectra could provide hints towards the origin of these very different
behaviours. We analyse a large set of spectroscopic observations of HD45314 and
HD60848, extending over 20 years. We further attempt to fit the H-alpha line
profiles of both stars with a simple model of emission line formation in a
Keplerian disk. Strong variations in the strengths of the H-alpha, H-beta, and
He I 5876 emission lines are observed for both stars. In the case of HD60848,
we find a time lag between the variations in the equivalent widths of these
lines. The emission lines are double peaked with nearly identical strengths of
the violet and red peaks. The H-alpha profile of this star can be successfully
reproduced by our model of a disk seen under an inclination of 30 degrees. In
the case of HD45314, the emission lines are highly asymmetric and display
strong line profile variations. We find a major change in behaviour between the
2002 outburst and the one observed in 2013. This concerns both the relationship
between the equivalent widths of the various lines and their morphologies at
maximum strength (double-peaked in 2002 versus single-peaked in 2013). Our
simple disk model fails to reproduce the observed H-alpha line profiles of
HD45314. Our results further support the interpretation that Oe stars do have
decretion disks similar to those of Be stars. Whilst the emission lines of
HD60848 are explained by a disk with a Keplerian velocity field, the disk of
HD45314 seems to have a significantly more complex velocity field that could be
related to the phenomenon that produces its peculiar X-ray emission.