Quantitative magnetic resonance imaging might provide a more specific insight
into disease process, progression and therapeutic response of multiple
sclerosis. We present an extension of a previously published approach for the
simultaneous mapping of brain T1, T2* and total water content. In addition to
those three parameters, the method presented in the current work allows for the
measurement of myelin bound water content, a surrogate marker of tissue
myelination. Myelin water was measured based on its distinct relaxation with
reduced T2*, resulting in a multiexponential decay signal. However, only 10
points could be acquired on the relaxation curve within a maximum echo time of
<40ms as the quantitative protocol has been adapted previously for fast
acquisitions with whole brain coverage. The sparse sampling required an
adaption of the optimisation approach with additional constraints necessary in
order to obtain reliable results. Therefore, the corresponding pool fractions
were determined using linear optimisation instead of the standard nonnegative
least squares (NNLS). The whole approach including the proper choice of
constraints was optimised and validated in simulation studies. Furthermore, the
independent determination of total water content allows for an absolute
quantification of myelin water content, resulting in a more reliable
measurement in oedemateous tissue. Whole brain maps of T1, T2*, total and
myelin water content were acquired in 12 patients suffering from multiple
sclerosis with mild disease grade. With an acquisition time of 10 minutes only,
the presented multidimensional quantitative MRI protocol provides an
interesting option for the clinical assessment and monitoring of multiple
sclerosis, even on a routine basis.