The intriguing nearly face-on southern ringed spiral galaxy NGC 4622, the
first galaxy definitively shown to have leading spiral structure, is revisited
in this paper with new images from the Hubble Space Telescope's WFPC2, together
with ground-based optical and near-IR imaging, and a Fabry-Perot H-alpha
velocity field. The data provide new information on the disk/bulge/halo mix,
rotation curve, star formation in the galaxy, and the sense of winding of its
prominent spiral arms. Previously, we suggested that the weaker, inner single
arm most likely has the leading sense, based on a numerical simulation. Now,
taking advantage of HST resolution and using de Vaucouleurs' standard
extinction and reddening technique to determine the near side of the galaxy's
slightly tilted disk, we come to the more surprising conclusion that the two
strong outer arms have the leading sense. We suggest that this highly unusual
configuration may be the result of a past minor merger or mild tidal encounter.
Possible evidence for a minor merger is found in a short, central dust lane,
although this is purely circumstantial and an unrelated interaction with a
different companion could also be relevant. The leading arms may be allowed to
persist because NGC 4622 is dark halo-dominated (i.e., not ``maximum disk'' in
the inner regions) and displays a significantly rising rotation curve. The new
HST observations also reveal a rich globular cluster system in the galaxy. The
mean color of these clusters is <(V-I)o> = 1.04 and the specific frequency is
3.4$\pm$0.6. The luminosity function of these clusters confirms the membership
of NGC 4622 in the Centaurus Cluster.