XMM-Newton EPIC observations have revealed a bright point-like X-ray source
in the nearby Magellanic-type galaxy NGC 55. At the distance of NGC 55, the
maximum observed X-ray luminosity of the source, designated as XMMU
J001528.9-391319, is L(x) ~ 1.6 x 10^{39} erg/s, placing the object in the
ultraluminous X-ray source (ULX) regime. The X-ray lightcurve exhibits a
variety of features including a significant upward drift over the 60 ks
observation. Most notably a series of X-ray dips are apparent with individual
dips lasting for typically 100-300 s. Some of these dips reach almost 100
percent diminution of the source flux in the 2.0-4.5 keV band. The EPIC CCD
spectra can be modelled with two spectral components, a very soft powerlaw
continuum (Gamma ~ 4) dominant below 2 keV, plus a multi-colour disc (MCD)
component with an inner-disc temperature kT ~ 0.8 keV. The observed upperward
drift in the X-ray flux can be attributed to an increase in the level of the
MCD component, whilst the normalisation of the powerlaw continuum remains
unchanged. The dipping episodes correspond to a loss of signal from both
spectral components, although the blocking factor is at least a factor two
higher for the MCD component. XMMU J001528.9-391319 can be considered as a
candidate black-hole binary (BHB) system. A plausible explanation of the
observed temporal and spectral behaviour is that we view the accretion disc
close to edge-on and that, during dips, orbiting clumps of obscuring material
enter our line of sight and cause significant blocking or scattering of the
hard thermal X-rays emitted from the inner disc. In contrast, the more extended
source of the soft powerlaw flux is only partially covered by the obscuring
matter during the dips.