The Fiber Optical Cable and Connector System, FOCCoS, for the Prime Focus
Spectrograph, PFS, is responsible for transporting light from the Subaru
Telescope focal plane to a set of four spectrographs. Each spectrograph will be
fed by a convex curved slit with 616 optical fibers organized in a linear
arrangement. The slit frontal surface is covered with a special dark composite,
made with refractory oxide, which is able to sustain its properties with
minimum quantities of abrasives during the polishing process; this stability is
obtained This stability is obtained by the detachment of the refractory oxide
nanoparticles, which then gently reinforce gently the polishing process and
increase its the efficiency. The surface roughness measured in several samples
after high performance polishing was about 0.01 microns. Furthermore, the time
for obtaining a polished surface with this quality is about 10 times less than
the time required for polishing a brass, glass or ceramic surface of the same
size. In this paper, we describe the procedure developed for high quality
polishing of this type of slit. The cylindrical polishing described here, uses
cylindrical concave metal bases on which glass paper is based. The polishing
process consists to use grid sequences of 30 microns, 12 microns, 9 microns, 5
microns, 3 microns, 1 micron and, finally, a colloidal silica on a chemical
cloth. To obtain the maximum throughput, the surface of the fibers should be
polished in such a way that they are optically flat and free from scratches.
The optical fibers are inspected with a microscope at all stages of the
polishing process to ensure high quality. The efficiency of the process may be
improved by using a cylindrical concave composite base as a substrate suitable
for diamond liquid solutions. Despite this process being completely by hand,
the final result shows a very high quality.