We construct static and mass-shedding limit sequences of hybrid stars,
composed of colour flavour locked (CFL) quark matter core, for a set of
equations of state (EOSs). The EOS for the hadronic matter is obtained using
appropriately calibrated extended field theoretical based relativistic
mean-field model. The MIT bag model is employed to compute the EOSs of the CFL
quark matter for different values of the CFL gap parameter in the range of $50
- 150\text{MeV}$ with the deconfinement phase transition density ranging from
$4\rho_0 - 6\rho_0$ ($\rho_0 = 0.16\text{fm}^{-3}$). We find, depending on the
values of the CFL gap parameter and the deconfinement phase transition density,
the sequences of stable configurations of hybrid stars either form third
families of the compact stars or bifurcate from the hadronic sequence. The
hybrid stars have masses $1.0 - 2.1 M_\odot$ with radii $9 - 13.5$ km. The
maximum values of mass shedding limit frequency for such hybrid stars are $1
-2$ kHz. For the smaller values of the CFL gap parameter and the deconfinement
phase transition density, mass-radius relationships are in harmony with those
deduced by applying improved hydrogen atmosphere model to fit the high quality
spectra from compact star X7 in the globular cluster 47 Tucanae. We observed
for some cases that the third family of compact stars exist in the static
sequence, but, disappear from the mass-shedding limit sequence. Our
investigation suggests that the third family of compact stars in the
mass-shedding limit sequence is more likely to appear, provided they have
maximum mass in the static limit higher than their second family counterpart
composed of pure hadronic matter.