We present high-resolution triple-axis neutron scattering studies of the
high-temperature superconductor La1.88Sr0.12CuO4 (Tc=27 K). The temperature
dependence of the low-energy incommensurate magnetic fluctuations reveals
distinctly glassy features. The glassiness is confirmed by the difference
between the ordering temperature TN ~ Tc inferred from elastic neutron
scattering and the freezing temperature Tf ~ 11 K obtained from muon spin
rotation studies. The magnetic field independence of the observed excitation
spectrum as well as the observation of a partial suppression of magnetic
spectral weight below 0.75 meV for temperatures smaller than Tf, indicate that
the stripe frozen state is capable of supporting a spin anisotropy gap, of a
magnitude similar to that observed in the spin and charge stripe ordered ground
state of La1.875Ba0.125CuO4. The difference between TN and Tf implies that the
significant enhancement in a magnetic field of nominally elastic incommensurate
scattering is caused by strictly in-elastic scattering -- at least in the
temperature range between Tf and Tc -- which is not resolved in the present
experiment. Combining the results obtained from our study of La1.88Sr0.12CuO4
with a critical reappraisal of published neutron scattering work on samples
with chemical composition close to p=0.12, where local probes indicate a sharp
maximum in Tf(p), we arrive at the view that the low-energy fluctuations are
strongly dependent on composition in this regime, with anisotropy gaps
dominating only sufficiently close to p=0.12 and superconducting spin gaps
dominating elsewhere.