We examine the hypothesis that space-time is a product of a continuous
four-dimensional manifold times a finite space. A new tensorial notation is
developed to present the various constructs of noncommutative geometry. In
particular, this notation is used to determine the spectral data of the
standard model. The particle spectrum with all of its symmetries is derived,
almost uniquely, under the assumption of irreducibility and of dimension 6
modulo 8 for the finite space. The reduction from the natural symmetry group
SU(2)xSU(2)xSU(4) to U(1)xSU(2)xSU(3) is a consequence of the hypothesis that
the two layers of space-time are finite distance apart but is non-dynamical.
The square of the Dirac operator, and all geometrical invariants that appear in
the calculation of the heat kernel expansion are evaluated. We re-derive the
leading order terms in the spectral action. The geometrical action yields
unification of all fundamental interactions including gravity at very high
energies. We make the following predictions: (i) The number of fermions per
family is 16. (ii) The symmetry group is U(1)xSU(2)xSU(3). (iii) There are
quarks and leptons in the correct representations. (iv) There is a doublet
Higgs that breaks the electroweak symmetry to U(1). (v) Top quark mass of
170-175 Gev. (v) There is a right-handed neutrino with a see-saw mechanism.
Moreover, the zeroth order spectral action obtained with a cut-off function is
consistent with experimental data up to few percent. We discuss a number of
open issues. We prepare the ground for computing higher order corrections since
the predicted mass of the Higgs field is quite sensitive to the higher order
corrections. We speculate on the nature of the noncommutative space at
Planckian energies and the possible role of the fundamental group for the
problem of generations.