Observations of the Vela pulsar-wind nebula (PWN) with the Chandra X-ray
Observatory have revealed a complex, variable PWN structure, including inner
and outer arcs, a jet in the direction of the pulsar's proper motion, and a
counter-jet in the opposite direction, embedded in diffuse nebular emission.
  From the analysis of thirteen Chandra observations spread over about 2.5
years we found that this outer jet shows particularly strong variability,
changing its shape and brightness. We observed bright blobs in the outer jet
moving away from the pulsar with apparent speeds (0.3-0.6)c and fading on
time-scales of days to weeks. The spectrum of the outer jet fits a power-law
model with a photon index of 1.3. The X-ray emission of the outer jet can be
interpreted as synchrotron radiation of ultrarelativistic electrons/positrons.
This interpretation allows one to estimate the magnetic field, ~100 microGauss,
maximum energy of X-ray emitting electrons, $2 \times 10^{14}$ eV, and energy
injection rate, $8\times 10^{33}$ erg/s, for the outer jet. In the summed PWN
image, we see a faint, strongly bent, extension of the outer jet. The more
extreme bends closer to the pulsar, as well as the apparent side motions of the
outer jet, can be associated with kink instabilities of a magnetically
confined, pinched jet flow. Another feature found in the summed image is a dim,
2'-long outer counter-jet, which also shows a power-law spectrum with photon
index of 1.2-1.5. Southwest of the jet/counter-jet (i.e., approximately
perpendicular to the direction of pulsar's proper motion), an extended region
of diffuse emission is seen. Relativistic particles responsible for this
radiation are apparently supplied by the outer jet.