Explosive nucleosynthesis under the axisymmetric explosion in Type II
supernova has been performed by means of two dimensional hydrodynamical
calculations. We have compared the results with the observations of SN 1987A.
Our chief findings are as follows: (1) $^{44}Ti$ is synthesized so much as to
explain the tail of the bolometric light curve of SN 1987A. We think this is
because the alpha-rich freezeout takes place more actively under the
axisymmetric explosion. (2) $^{57}Ni$ and $^{58}Ni$ tend to be overproduced
compared with the observations. However, this tendency relies strongly on the
progenitor's model.
  We have also compared the abundance of each element in the mass number range
$A= 16-73$ with the solar values. We have found three outstanding features. (1)
For the nuclei in the range $A=16-40$, their abundances are insensitive to the
initial form of the shock wave. This insensitivity is favored since the
spherical calculations thus far can explain the solar system abundances in this
mass range. (2) There is an enhancement around A=45 in the axisymmetric
explosion compared with the spherical explosion fairly well. In particular,
$^{44}Ca$, which is underproduced in the present spherical calculations, is
enhanced significantly. (3) In addition, there is an enhancement around A=65.
This tendency does not rely on the form of the mass cut but of the initial
shock wave. This enhancement may be the problem of the overproduction in this
mass range, although this effect would be relatively small since Type I
supernovae are chiefly responsible for this mass number range.