We compute analytically and numerically the four-point correlation function
that characterizes non-trivial cooperative dynamics in glassy systems within
several models of glasses: elasto-plastic deformations, mode-coupling theory
(MCT), collectively rearranging regions (CRR), diffusing defects and
kinetically constrained models (KCM). Some features of the four-point
susceptibility chi_4(t) are expected to be universal. at short times we expect
an elastic regime characterized by a t or sqrt{t} growth. We find both in the
beta, and the early alpha regime that chi_4 sim t^mu, where mu is directly
related to the mechanism responsible for relaxation. This regime ends when a
maximum of chi_4 is reached at a time t=t^* of the order of the relaxation time
of the system. This maximum is followed by a fast decay to zero at large times.
The height of the maximum also follows a power-law, chi_4(t^*) sim t^{*lambda}.
The value of the exponents mu and lambda allows one to distinguish between
different mechanisms. For example, freely diffusing defects in d=3 lead to mu=2
and lambda=1, whereas the CRR scenario rather predicts either mu=1 or a
logarithmic behaviour depending on the nature of the nucleation events, and a
logarithmic behaviour of chi_4(t^*). MCT leads to mu=b and lambda =1/gamma,
where b and gamma are the standard MCT exponents. We compare our theoretical
results with numerical simulations on a Lennard-Jones and a soft-sphere system.
Within the limited time-scales accessible to numerical simulations, we find
that the exponent mu is rather small, mu < 1, with a value in reasonable
agreement with the MCT predictions.