We have observed two blank fields of approximately 30 by 23 arcminutes using
the William Herschel Telescope. The fields have been studied as part of the
CNOC2 survey, and spectroscopic redshifts are available for 1125 galaxies in
the two fields. We measured the lensing signal caused by large scale structure,
and found that the result is consistent with current, more accurate
measurements. We study the galaxy-galaxy lensing signal of three overlapping
samples of lenses, and detect a significant signal in all cases. The estimates
for the velocity dispersion of an L* galaxy agree well for the various samples.
The best fit singular isothermal sphere model to the ensemble averaged
tangential distortion around the galaxies with redshifts yields a velocity
dispersion of \sigma_*=130^{+15}_{-17} km/s, in good agreement with other
studies. We use a maximum likelihood analysis, where a parameterized mass model
is compared to the data, to study the extent of galaxy dark matter halos.
Making use of all available data, we find \sigma_*=111\pm12 km/s (68.3%
confidence) for a truncated isothermal sphere model in which all galaxies have
the same mass-to-light ratio. The value of the truncation parameter is not
constrained that well, and we find s_*=260^{+124}_{-73} h^{-1} kpc (68.3%
confidence The galaxy-galaxy lensing analysis allows us to estimate the average
mass-to-light ratio of the field, which can be used to estimate \Omega_m. The
current result, however, depends strongly on the assumed scaling relation for
s.