We use the recently conjectured exact $S$-matrix of the massive ${\rm O}(n)$
model to derive its form factors and ground state energy. This information is
then used in the limit $n\to0$ to obtain quantitative results for various
universal properties of self-avoiding chains and loops. In particular, we give
the first theoretical prediction of the amplitude ratio $C/D$ which relates the
mean square end-to-end distance of chains to the mean square radius of gyration
of closed loops. This agrees with the results from lattice enumeration studies
to within their errors, and gives strong support for the various assumptions
which enter into the field theoretic derivation. In addition, we obtain results
for the scaling function of the structure factor of long loops, and for various
amplitude ratios measuring the shape of self-avoiding chains. These quantities
are all related to moments of correlation functions which are evaluated as a
sum over $m$-particle intermediate states in the corresponding field theory. We
show that in almost all cases, the restriction to $m\leq2$ gives results which
are accurate to at least one part in $10^3$. This remarkable fact is traced to
a softening of the $m>2$ branch cuts relative to their behaviour based on phase
space arguments alone, a result which follows from the threshold behaviour of
the two-body $S$-matrix, $S(0)=-1$. Since this is a general property of
interacting 2d field theories, it suggests that similar approximations may well
hold for other models. However, we also study the moments of the area of
self-avoiding loops,