We present optical and near infrared (NIR) observations of the nearby Type Ia
SN 2014J. Seventeen optical and twenty-three NIR spectra were obtained from 10
days before ($-$10d) to 10 days after (+10d) the time of maximum $B$-band
brightness. The relative strengths of absorption features and their patterns of
development can be compared at one day intervals throughout most of this
period. Carbon is not detected in the optical spectra, but we identify CI
$\lambda$ 1.0693 in the NIR spectra. We find that MgII lines with high
oscillator strengths have higher initial velocities than other MgII lines. We
show that the velocity differences can be explained by differences in optical
depths due to oscillator strengths. The spectra of SN 2014J show it is a normal
SN Ia, but many parameters are near the boundaries between normal and
high-velocity subclasses. The velocities for OI, MgII, SiII, SII, CaII and FeII
suggest that SN 2014J has a layered structure with little or no mixing. That
result is consistent with the delayed detonation explosion models. We also
report photometric observations, obtained from $-$10d to +29d, in the $UBVRIJH$
and $K_s$ bands. SN 2014J is about 3 magnitudes fainter than a normal SN Ia at
the distance of M82, which we attribute to extinction in the host. The template
fitting package SNooPy is used to interpret the light curves and to derive
photometric parameters. Using $R_V$ = 1.46, which is consistent with previous
studies, SNooPy finds that $A_V = 1.80$ for $E(B-V)_{host}=1.23 \pm 0.01$ mag.
The maximum $B$-band brightness of $-19.19 \pm 0.10$ mag was reached on
February 1.74 UT $ \pm 0.13$ days and the supernova had a decline parameter of
$\Delta m_{15}=1.11 \pm 0.02$ mag.