The displacement distribution of a water molecular is characterized
mathematically as Gaussianity without considering potential diffusion barriers
and compartments. However, this is not true in real scenario: most biological
tissues are comprised of cell membranes, various intracellular and
extracellular spaces, and of other compartments, where the water diffusion is
referred to have a non-Gaussian distribution. Diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI),
recently considered to be one sensitive biomarker, is an extension of diffusion
tensor imaging, which quantifies the degree of non-Gaussianity of the
diffusion. This work proposes an efficient scheme of maximum likelihood
estimation (MLE) in DKI: we start from the Rician noise model of the signal
intensities. By augmenting a Von-Mises distributed latent phase variable, the
Rician likelihood is transformed to a tractable joint density without loss of
generality. A fast computational method, an expectation-maximization (EM)
algorithm for MLE is proposed in DKI. To guarantee the physical relevance of
the diffusion kurtosis we apply the ternary quartic (TQ) parametrization to
utilize its positivity, which imposes the upper bound to the kurtosis. A
Fisher-scoring method is used for achieving fast convergence of the individual
diffusion compartments. In addition, we use the barrier method to constrain the
lower bound to the kurtosis. The proposed estimation scheme is conducted on
both synthetic and real data with an objective of healthy human brain. We
compared the method with the other popular ones with promising performance
shown in the results.