Morphological and spectroscopic studies of high redshift clusters indicate
that a significant fraction of present-day early-type galaxies was transformed
from star forming galaxies at z<1. On the other hand, the slow luminosity
evolution of early-type galaxies and the low scatter in their color-magnitude
relation indicate a high formation redshift of their stars. In this paper we
construct models which reconcile these apparently contradictory lines of
evidence, and we quantify the effects of morphological evolution on the
observed photometric properties of early-type galaxies in distant clusters. We
show that in the case of strong morphological evolution the apparent luminosity
and color evolution of early-type galaxies are similar to that of a single age
stellar population formed at z=infinity, irrespective of the true star
formation history of the galaxies. Furthermore, the scatter in age, and hence
the scatter in color and luminosity, is approximately constant with redshift.
These results are consequences of the ``progenitor bias'': the progenitors of
the youngest low redshift early-type galaxies drop out of the sample at high
redshift. We construct models which reproduce the observed evolution of the
number fraction of early-type galaxies in rich clusters and their color and
luminosity evolution simultaneously. Our modelling indicates that approx. 50%
of early-type galaxies were transformed from other galaxy types at z<1, and
their progenitor galaxies may have had roughly constant star formation rates
prior to morphological transformation. After correcting the observed evolution
of the mean M/L_B ratio for the maximum progenitor bias we find that the mean
luminosity weighted formation redshift of stars in early-type galaxies
z_*=2.0^{+0.3}_{-0.2} for Omega_m=0.3 and Omega_Lambda=0.7. [ABRIDGED]