We report optical photometry and optical through mid-infrared spectroscopy of
the classical nova V1186 Sco. This slowly developing nova had an complex light
curve with multiple secondary peaks similar to those seen in PW Vul. The time
to decline 2 magnitudes, t$_2$, was 20 days but the erratic nature of the light
curve makes determination of intrinsic properties based on the decline time
(e.g., luminosity) problematic, and the often cited MMRD relationship of Della
Valle and Livio (1995) fails to yield a plausible distance. Spectra covering
0.35 to 35 $\mu$m were obtained in two separate epochs during the first year of
outburst. The first set of spectra, taken about 2 months after visible maximum,
are typical of a CO-type nova with narrow line emission from \ion{H}{1},
\ion{Fe}{2}, \ion{O}{1} and \ion{He}{1}. Later data, obtained between 260 and
380 days after maximum, reveal an emerging nebular spectrum. \textit{Spitzer}
spectra show weakening hydrogen recombination emission with the emergence of
[\ion{Ne}{2}] (12.81 $\mu$m) as the strongest line. Strong emission from
[\ion{Ne}{3}] (15.56 $\mu$m) is also detected. Photoionization models with low
effective temperature sources and only marginal neon enhancement (Ne $\sim$ 1.3
Ne$_{\odot}$) are consistent with these IR fine-structure neon lines indicating
that V1186 Sco did not occur on a ONeMg white dwarf. In contrast, the slow and
erratic light curve evolution, spectral development, and photoionization
analysis of the ejecta imply the outburst occurred on a low mass CO white
dwarf. We note that this is the first time strong [\ion{Ne}{2}] lines have been
detected so early in the outburst of a CO nova and suggests that the presence
of mid-infrared neon lines is not directly indicative of a ONeMg nova event.