It is debated whether the two hot Jupiter populations --- those on orbits
misaligned from their host star's spin axis and those well-aligned --- result
from two migration channels or from two tidal realignment regimes. Here I
demonstrate that equilibrium tides raised by a planet on its star can account
for three observed spin-orbit alignment trends: the aligned orbits of hot
Jupiters orbiting cool stars, the planetary mass cut-off for retrograde
planets, and the stratification by planet mass of cool host stars' rotation
frequencies. The first trend can be caused by strong versus weak magnetic
braking (the Kraft break), rather than realignment of the star's convective
envelope versus the entire star. The second trend can result from a small
effective stellar moment of inertia participating in the tidal realignment in
hot stars, enabling massive retrograde planets to partially realign to become
prograde. The third trend is attributable to higher mass planets more
effectively counteracting braking to spin up their stars. Both hot and cool
star require a small effective stellar moment of inertia participating in the
tidal realignment, e.g., an outer layer weakly coupled to the interior. I
demonstrate via Monte Carlo that this model can match the observed trends and
distributions of sky-projected misalignments and stellar rotation frequencies.
I discuss implications for inferring hot Jupiter migration mechanisms from
obliquities, emphasizing that even hot stars do not constitute a pristine
sample.