This paper considers the joint-decoding (JD) problem for finite-state
channels (FSCs) and low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes. In the first part,
the linear-programming (LP) decoder for binary linear codes is extended to JD
of binary-input FSCs. In particular, we provide a rigorous definition of LP
joint-decoding pseudo-codewords (JD-PCWs) that enables evaluation of the
pairwise error probability between codewords and JD-PCWs in AWGN. This leads
naturally to a provable upper bound on decoder failure probability. If the
channel is a finite-state intersymbol interference channel, then the joint LP
decoder also has the maximum-likelihood (ML) certificate property and all
integer-valued solutions are codewords. In this case, the performance loss
relative to ML decoding can be explained completely by fractional-valued
JD-PCWs. After deriving these results, we discovered some elements were
equivalent to earlier work by Flanagan on LP receivers.
  In the second part, we develop an efficient iterative solver for the joint LP
decoder discussed in the first part. In particular, we extend the approach of
iterative approximate LP decoding, proposed by Vontobel and Koetter and
analyzed by Burshtein, to this problem. By taking advantage of the dual-domain
structure of the JD-LP, we obtain a convergent iterative algorithm for joint LP
decoding whose structure is similar to BCJR-based turbo equalization (TE). The
result is a joint iterative decoder whose per-iteration complexity is similar
to that of TE but whose performance is similar to that of joint LP decoding.
The main advantage of this decoder is that it appears to provide the
predictability of joint LP decoding and superior performance with the
computational complexity of TE. One expected application is coding for magnetic
storage where the required block-error rate is extremely low and system
performance is difficult to verify by simulation.