Are there general principles governing the process by which certain products
or ideas become popular relative to other (often qualitatively similar)
competitors? To investigate this question in detail, we have focused on the
popularity of movies as measured by their box-office income. We observe that
the log-normal distribution describes well the tail (corresponding to the most
successful movies) of the empirical distributions for the total income, the
income on the opening week, as well as, the weekly income per theater. This
observation suggests that popularity may be the outcome of a linear
multiplicative stochastic process. In addition, the distributions of the total
income and the opening income show a bimodal form, with the majority of movies
either performing very well or very poorly in theaters. We also observe that
the gross income per theater for a movie at any point during its lifetime is,
on average, inversely proportional to the period that has elapsed after its
release. We argue that (i) the log-normal nature of the tail, (ii) the bimodal
form of the overall gross income distribution, and (iii) the decay of gross
income per theater with time as a power law, constitute the fundamental set of
{\em stylized facts} (i.e., empirical "laws") that can be used to explain other
observations about movie popularity. We show that, in conjunction with an
assumption of a fixed lower cut-off for income per theater below which a movie
is withdrawn from a cinema, these laws can be used to derive a Weibull
distribution for the survival probability of movies which agrees with empirical
data. The connection to extreme-value distributions suggests that popularity
can be viewed as a process where a product becomes popular by avoiding failure
(i.e., being pulled out from circulation) for many successive time periods. We
suggest that these results may apply to popularity in general.