The solar system is moving through the partially ionized local interstellar
cloud (LIC). The ionized matter of the LIC interacts with the expanding solar
wind forming the heliospheric interface. The neutral component (interstellar
atoms) penetrates through the heliospheric interface into the heliosphere,
where it is measured directly "in situ" as pick-up ions and neutral atoms (and
as anomalous cosmic rays) or indirectly through resonant scattering of solar
Ly-alpha. When crossing the heliospheric interface, interstellar atoms interact
with the plasma component through charge exchange. This interaction leads to
changes of both neutral gas and plasma properties. The heliospheric interface
is also the source of radio emissions which have been detected by the Voyager
since 1983. In this paper, we have used a kinetic model of the flow of the
interstellar atoms with updated values of velocity, temperature, and density of
the circumsolar interstellar hydrogen and calculated how all quantities which
are directly associated to the observations vary as a function of the
interstellar proton number density. These quantities are the degree of
filtration, the temperature and the velocity of the interstellar H atoms in the
inner heliosphere, the distances to the bow shock (BS), heliopause, and
termination shock, and the plasma frequencies in the LIC, at the BS and in the
maximum compression region around the heliosphere which constitutes the
"barrier" for radio waves formed in the interstellar medium. Comparing the
model results with recent pickup ion data, Ly- alpha measurements, and
low-frequencies radio emissions, we have searched for a number density of
protons in the local interstellar cloud compatible with all observations.