The rapid development of sequencing technologies represents new opportunities
for population genetics research. It is expected that genomic data will
increase our ability to reconstruct the history of populations. While this
increase in genetic information will likely help biologists and anthropologists
to reconstruct the demographic history of populations, it also represents new
challenges. Recent work has shown that structured populations generate signals
of population size change. As a consequence it is often difficult to determine
whether demographic events such as expansions or contractions (bottlenecks)
inferred from genetic data are real or due to the fact that populations are
structured in nature. Given that few inferential methods allow us to account
for that structure, and that genomic data will necessarily increase the
precision of parameter estimates, it is important to develop new approaches. In
the present study we analyse two demographic models. The first is a model of
instantaneous population size change whereas the second is the classical
symmetric island model. We (i) re-derive the distribution of coalescence times
under the two models for a sample of size two, (ii) use a maximum likelihood
approach to estimate the parameters of these models (iii) validate this
estimation procedure under a wide array of parameter combinations, (iv)
implement and validate a model choice procedure by using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov
test. Altogether we show that it is possible to estimate parameters under
several models and perform efficient model choice using genetic data from a
single diploid individual.