The maximum energy to which cosmic rays can be accelerated at
weakly-magnetised ultra-relativistic shocks is investigated. We demonstrate
that for such shocks, in which the scattering of energetic particles is
mediated exclusively by ion skin-depth scale structures, as might be expected
for a Weibel-mediated shock, there is an intrinsic limit on the maximum energy
to which particles can be accelerated. This maximum energy is determined from
the requirement that particles must be isotropised in the downstream plasma
frame before the mean field transports them far downstream, and falls
considerably short of what is required to produce ultra-high-energy cosmic
rays. To circumvent this limit, a highly disorganised field is required on
larger scales. The growth of cosmic-ray induced instabilities on wavelengths
much longer than the ion-plasma skin depth, both upstream and downstream of the
shock, is considered. While these instabilities may play an important role in
magnetic field amplification at relativistic shocks, on scales comparable to
the gyroradius of the most energetic particles, the calculated growth-rates
have insufficient time to modify the scattering. Since strong modification is a
necessary condition for particles in the downstream region to re-cross the
shock, in the absence of an alternative scattering mechanism, these results
imply that acceleration to higher energies is ruled out. If weakly-magnetised
ultra-relativistic shocks are disfavoured as high energy particle accelerators
in general, the search for potential sources of ultra-high-energy cosmic rays
can be narrowed.