We present new and accurate radial velocity (RV) measurements of luminous
stars of all ages (old horizontal branch, intermediate--age red clump, and
young blue plume, as well as red giants of a range of ages; 20.6<V<22) in the
Carina dwarf spheroidal galaxy, based on low-resolution spectra collected with
the FORS2 multi-object slit spectrograph at the VLT. This data set was
complemented by RV measurements based on medium and high-resolution archive
spectra of brighter (V<20.6) Carina targets collected with the GIRAFFE
multi-object fiber spectrograph at the VLT. The combined sample includes more
than 21,340 individual spectra of ~2,000 stars covering the entire body of the
galaxy. To further improve the statistics, the accurate RV measurements
recently provided by Walker et al.(2007) were also added to the current data
set. We ended up with a sample of ~1,370 RV measurements of candidate Carina
stars that is ~75% larger than any previous Carina RV sample. The mean RV
across the body of the galaxy varies from ~220 km/s at a distance of 7arcmin
(~200 pc) from the center to ~223 km/s at 13arcmin, (~400 pc, 6sigma level) and
flattens out to a constant value of ~221 km/s at larger distances (600 pc,
4sigma level). Moreover and even more importantly, we found that in the Carina
regions where the mean RV is smaller the dispersion is also smaller, and the RV
distribution is more centrally peaked (i.e. the kurtosis attains larger
values). There is evidence of a secondary maximum in RV across the Carina
center (|D|<200 pc). The occurrence of a secondary feature across the Carina
center is also supported by the flat-topped radial distribution based on the
photometric catalog.