We present the results of Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer observations of GS
1354-644 during a modest outburst in 1997-1998. The source is one of a handful
of black hole X-ray transients that are confirmed to be recurrent in X-rays. A
1987 outburst of the same source observed by Ginga was much brighter, and
showed a high/soft spectral state. In contrast the 1997-1998 outburst showed a
low/hard spectral state. Both states are typical for black hole binaries. The
RXTE All Sky Monitor observed an outburst duration of 150 to 200 days. PCA and
HEXTE observations covered ~70 days near the maximum of the light curve and
during the flux decline. Throughout the observations, the spectrum can be
approximated by Compton upscattering of soft photons by energetic electrons.
The hot electron cloud has a temperature kT ~30 keV and optical depth tau~4--5.
To fit the data well an additional iron fluorescent line and reflection
component are required, which indicates the presence of optically thick cool
material, most probably in the outer part of the accretion disk. Dramatic fast
variability was observed, and has been analyzed in the context of a shot noise
model. The spectrum appeared to be softest at the peaks of the shot-noise
variability. The shape of the power spectrum was typical for black hole systems
in a low/hard state. We note a qualitative difference in the shape of the
dependence of fractional variability on energy, when we compare systems with
black holes and with neutron stars. Since it is difficult to discriminate these
systems on spectral grounds, at least in their low/hard states, this new
difference might be important.