Molecular dynamics simulations are performed to study the
temperature-dependent dynamics and structures of the hydration shells of
elastin-like and collagen-like peptides. For both model peptides, it is
consistently observed that, upon cooling, the mechanisms for water dynamics
continuously change from small-step diffusive motion to large-step jump motion,
the temperature dependence of water dynamics shows a weak crossover from
fragile behavior to strong behavior, and the order of the hydrogen-bond network
increases. The temperature of the weak crossover from fragile to strong
behavior is found to coincide with the temperature at which maximum possible
order of the hydrogen-bond network is reached so that the structure becomes
temperature independent. In the strong regime, the temperature dependence of
water translation and rotational dynamics is characterized by an activation
energy of ca. E_a=0.43 eV, consistent with results from previous dielectric
spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance studies on protein hydration
waters. At these temperatures, a distorted pi-flip motion about the twofold
molecular symmetry axes, i.e., a water-specific beta process is an important
aspect of water dynamics, at least at the water-peptide interfaces. In
addition, it is shown that the hydration waters exhibit pronounced dynamical
heterogeneities, which can be traced back to a strong slowdown of water motion
in the immediate vicinity of peptide molecules due to formation of
water-peptide hydrogen bonds.