The incidence of thyroid nodule is very high and generally increases with the
age. Thyroid nodule may presage the emergence of thyroid cancer. The thyroid
nodule can be completely cured if detected early. Fine needle aspiration
cytology is a recognized early diagnosis method of thyroid nodule. There are
still some limitations in the fine needle aspiration cytology, and the
ultrasound diagnosis of thyroid nodule has become the first choice for
auxiliary examination of thyroid nodular disease. If we could combine medical
imaging technology and fine needle aspiration cytology, the diagnostic rate of
thyroid nodule would be improved significantly. The properties of ultrasound
will degrade the image quality, which makes it difficult to recognize the edges
for physicians. Image segmentation technique based on graph theory has become a
research hotspot at present. Normalized cut (Ncut) is a representative one,
which is suitable for segmentation of feature parts of medical image. However,
how to solve the normalized cut has become a problem, which needs large memory
capacity and heavy calculation of weight matrix. It always generates over
segmentation or less segmentation which leads to inaccurate in the
segmentation. The speckle noise in B ultrasound image of thyroid tumor makes
the quality of the image deteriorate. In the light of this characteristic, we
combine the anisotropic diffusion model with the normalized cut in this paper.
After the enhancement of anisotropic diffusion model, it removes the noise in
the B ultrasound image while preserves the important edges and local details.
This reduces the amount of computation in constructing the weight matrix of the
improved normalized cut and improves the accuracy of the final segmentation
results. The feasibility of the method is proved by the experimental results.