[...] By the beginning of the 20th century, the principles of thermodynamics
were summarized into the so-called four laws, which were, as it turns out,
definitive negative answers to the doomed quests for perpetual motion machines.
As a matter of fact, one result of Sadi Carnot's work was precisely that the
heat-to-work conversion process is fundamentally limited; as such, it is
considered as a first version of the second law of thermodynamics. Although it
was derived from Carnot's unrealistic model, the upper bound on the
thermodynamic conversion efficiency, known as the Carnot efficiency, became a
paradigm as the next target after the failure of the perpetual motion ideal. In
the 1950's, Jacques Yvon published a conference paper containing the necessary
ingredients for a new class of models, and even a formula, not so different
from that of Carnot's efficiency, which later would become the new efficiency
reference. Yvon's first analysis [...] went fairly unnoticed for twenty years,
until Frank Curzon and Boye Ahlborn published their pedagogical paper about the
effect of finite heat transfer on output power limitation and their derivation
of the efficiency at maximum power, now known as the Curzon-Ahlborn (CA)
efficiency. The notion of finite rate explicitly introduced time in
thermodynamics, and its significance cannot be overlooked as shown by the
wealth of works devoted to what is now known as finite-time thermodynamics
since the end of the 1970's. [...] The object of the article is thus to cover
some of the milestones of thermodynamics, and show through the illustrative
case of thermoelectric generators, our model heat engine, that the shift from
Carnot's efficiency to efficiencies at maximum power explains itself naturally
as one considers continuity and boundary conditions carefully [...].