The highly anticipated transition to the third generation DNA sequencing
(3rdGS) technology have reached a stalemate primarily due to the high error
rates (15-45%), which make the assembly of long erroneous reads extremely
challenging because existing software solutions for 3rdGS assembly are often
overwhelmed by error correction tasks. We report three significant
breakthroughs that push the envelope of genome assembly and offer an enabling
software solution to overcome the current 3rdGS stalemate. Firstly, we take a
counter-intuitive strategy and develop a base-level correction-free assembly
algorithm, which resorts to data compression technology and the assembly was
performed with the compressed reads. Magnitudes of compression lead to
magnitudes of reduction in read lengths, enabling magnitudes of savings in
computational time and memory space. We implement the new algorithm in a
proof-of-concept software package DBG2OLC. Experiments with the 3rdGS data
including PacBio and Oxford Nanopore show that our method is able to assemble
large genomes magnitudes more efficiently than existing methods. For example,
on a large PacBio human genome dataset we calculated the all-pair alignment of
54x erroneous long reads in 6 hours compared to the 405,000 CPU hours
previously reported by Pacific Biosciences. Secondly, while maintaining
comparable high quality assemblies, our approach requires significantly lower
sequencing coverage (10x-20x) than existing assemblers, which translates to
significant cost-cut for genome sequencing. Thirdly, our method is highly
adaptive and is the only one to date that demonstrates ultra efficiencies not
only for the 3rdGS PacBio and Nanapore sequences, but also for the latest NGS
data.