Supernova 1987A revealed that a blue supergiant (BSG) star can end its life
as a core-collapse supernova (SN). SN 1987A and other similar objects exhibit
properties that distinguish them from ordinary Type II Plateau (IIP) SNe, whose
progenitors are believed to be red supergiants (RSGs). Similarities among
1987A-like events include a long rise to maximum, early luminosity fainter than
that of normal Type IIP SNe, and radioactivity acting as the primary source
powering the light curves. We present and analyze two SNe monitored by the
Carnegie Supernova Project that are reminiscent of SN 1987A. Optical and
near-infrared (NIR) light curves, and optical spectroscopy of SNe 2006V and
2006au are presented. These observations are compared to those of SN 1987A, and
are used to estimate properties of their progenitors. Both objects exhibit a
slow rise to maximum and light curve evolution similar to that of SN 1987A. At
the earliest epochs, SN 2006au also displays an initial dip which we interpret
as the signature of the adiabatic cooling phase that ensues shock break- out.
SNe 2006V and 2006au are both found to be bluer, hotter and brighter than SN
1987A. Spectra of SNe 2006V and 2006au are similar to those of SN 1987A and
other normal Type II objects, although both consistently exhibit expansion
velocities higher than SN 1987A. Semi-analytic models are fit to the UVOIR
light curve of each object from which physical properties of the progenitors
are estimated. This yields ejecta mass estimates of about 20 solar masses,
explosion energies of 2 - 3 x 10^51 erg, and progenitor radii of 75 - 100 solar
radii for both SNe. The progenitors of SNe 2006V and 2006au were most likely
BSGs with a larger explosion energy as compared to that of SN 1987A.