We report a large amount of experimental data on the stress overshoot
phenomenon which takes place during start-up shear flows in a simple yield
stress fluid, namely a carbopol microgel. A combination of classical
rheological measurements and ultrasonic velocimetry makes it possible to get
physical insights on the transient dynamics of both the stress $\sigma(t)$ and
the velocity field across the gap of a rough cylindrical Couette cell during
the start-up of shear under an applied shear rate $\dot\gamma$. (i) At small
strains ($\gamma <1$), $\sigma(t)$ increases linearly and the microgel
undergoes homogeneous deformation. (ii) At a time $t_m$, the stress reaches a
maximum value $\sigma_m$ which corresponds to the failure of the microgel and
to the nucleation of a thin lubrication layer at the moving wall. (iii) The
microgel then experiences a strong elastic recoil and enters a regime of total
wall slip while the stress slowly decreases. (iv) Total wall slip gives way to
a transient shear-banding phenomenon, which occurs on timescales much longer
than that of the stress overshoot and has been described elsewhere [Divoux
\textit{et al., Phys. Rev. Lett.}, 2010, \textbf{104}, 208301]. This whole
sequence is very robust to concentration changes in the explored range ($0.5
\le C \le 3%$ w/w). We further demonstrate that the maximum stress $\sigma_m$
and the corresponding strain $\gamma_m=\dot\gamma t_m$ both depend on the
applied shear rate $\dot \gamma$ and on the waiting time $t_w$ between preshear
and shear start-up: they remain roughly constant as long as $\dot\gamma$ is
smaller than some critical shear rate $\dot\gamma_w\sim 1/t_w$ and they
increase as weak power laws of $\dot \gamma$ for $\dot\gamma> \dot\gamma_w$
[...].