In the problem Max Lin, we are given a system $Az=b$ of $m$ linear equations
with $n$ variables over $\mathbb{F}_2$ in which each equation is assigned a
positive weight and we wish to find an assignment of values to the variables
that maximizes the excess, which is the total weight of satisfied equations
minus the total weight of falsified equations. Using an algebraic approach, we
obtain a lower bound for the maximum excess.
  Max Lin Above Average (Max Lin AA) is a parameterized version of Max Lin
introduced by Mahajan et al. (Proc. IWPEC'06 and J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 75,
2009). In Max Lin AA all weights are integral and we are to decide whether the
maximum excess is at least $k$, where $k$ is the parameter.
  It is not hard to see that we may assume that no two equations in $Az=b$ have
the same left-hand side and $n={\rm rank A}$. Using our maximum excess results,
we prove that, under these assumptions, Max Lin AA is fixed-parameter tractable
for a wide special case: $m\le 2^{p(n)}$ for an arbitrary fixed function
$p(n)=o(n)$.
  Max $r$-Lin AA is a special case of Max Lin AA, where each equation has at
most $r$ variables. In Max Exact $r$-SAT AA we are given a multiset of $m$
clauses on $n$ variables such that each clause has $r$ variables and asked
whether there is a truth assignment to the $n$ variables that satisfies at
least $(1-2^{-r})m + k2^{-r}$ clauses. Using our maximum excess results, we
prove that for each fixed $r\ge 2$, Max $r$-Lin AA and Max Exact $r$-SAT AA can
be solved in time $2^{O(k \log k)}+m^{O(1)}.$ This improves
$2^{O(k^2)}+m^{O(1)}$-time algorithms for the two problems obtained by Gutin et
al. (IWPEC 2009) and Alon et al. (SODA 2010), respectively.