Liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry, also known as
shotgun proteomics, is a widely-used high-throughput technology for identifying
proteins in complex biological samples. Analysis of the tens of thousands of
fragmentation spectra produced by a typical shotgun proteomics experiment
begins by assigning to each observed spectrum the peptide hypothesized to be
responsible for generating the spectrum, typically done by searching each
spectrum against a database of peptides. We have recently described a machine
learning method---Dynamic Bayesian Network for Rapid Identification of Peptides
(DRIP)---that not only achieves state-of-the-art spectrum identification
performance on a variety of datasets but also provides a trainable model
capable of returning valuable auxiliary information regarding specific
peptide-spectrum matches. In this work, we present two significant improvements
to DRIP. First, we describe how to use word lattices, which are widely used in
natural language processing, to significantly speed up DRIP's computations. To
our knowledge, all existing shotgun proteomics search engines compute
independent scores between a given observed spectrum and each possible
candidate peptide from the database. The key idea of the word lattice is to
represent the set of candidate peptides in a single data structure, thereby
allowing sharing of redundant computations among the different candidates. We
demonstrate that using lattices in conjunction with DRIP leads to speedups on
the order of tens across yeast and worm data sets. Second, we introduce a
variant of DRIP that uses a discriminative training framework, performing
maximum mutual entropy estimation rather than maximum likelihood estimation.
This modification improves DRIP's statistical power, enabling us to increase
the number of identified spectrum at a 1% false discovery rate on yeast and
worm data sets.