Three extreme-ultraviolet (EUV) jets recurred in about one hour on 2010
September 17 in the following magnetic polarity of active region 11106. The EUV
jets were observed by the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) on board the Solar
Dynamics Observatory (SDO). The Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager (HMI) on board
SDO measured the vector magnetic field, from which we derive the magnetic flux
evolution, the photospheric velocity field, and the vertical electric current
evolution. The magnetic configuration before the jets is derived by the
nonlinear force-free field (NLFFF) extrapolation.
  We derive that the jets are above a pair of parasitic magnetic bipoles which
are continuously driven by photospheric diverging flows. The interaction drove
the build up of electric currents that we indeed observed as elongated patterns
at the photospheric level. For the first time, the high temporal cadence of HMI
allows to follow the evolution of such small currents. In the jet region, we
found that the integrated absolute current peaks repetitively in phase with the
171 A flux evolution. The current build up and its decay are both fast, about
10 minutes each, and the current maximum precedes the 171 A by also about 10
minutes. Then, HMI temporal cadence is marginally fast enough to detect such
changes.
  The photospheric current pattern of the jets is found associated to the
quasi-separatrix layers deduced from the magnetic extrapolation. From previous
theoretical results, the observed diverging flows are expected to build
continuously such currents. We conclude that magnetic reconnection occurs
periodically, in the current layer created between the emerging bipoles and the
large scale active region field. It induced the observed recurrent coronal jets
and the decrease of the vertical electric current magnitude.