Explosions of sub-Chandrasekhar-mass white dwarfs are one alternative to the
standard Chandrasekhar-mass model of Type Ia supernovae. They are interesting
since binary systems with sub-Chandrasekhar-mass primary white dwarfs should be
common and this scenario would suggest a simple physical parameter which
determines the explosion brightness, namely the mass of the exploding white
dwarf. Here we perform one-dimensional hydrodynamical simulations, associated
post-processing nucleosynthesis and multi-wavelength radiation transport
calculations for pure detonations of carbon-oxygen white dwarfs. The light
curves and spectra we obtain from these simulations are in good agreement with
observed properties of Type Ia supernovae. In particular, for white dwarf
masses from 0.97 - 1.15 Msun we obtain 56Ni masses between 0.3 and 0.8 Msun,
sufficient to capture almost the complete range of Type Ia supernova
brightnesses. Our optical light curve rise times, peak colours and decline
timescales display trends which are generally consistent with observed
characteristics although the range of B-band decline timescales displayed by
our current set of models is somewhat too narrow. In agreement with
observations, the maximum light spectra of the models show clear features
associated with intermediate mass elements and reproduce the sense of the
observed correlation between explosion luminosity and the ratio of the Si II
lines at 6355 and 5972 Angstroms. We therefore suggest that sub-Chandrasekhar
mass explosions are a viable model for Type Ia supernovae for any binary
evolution scenario leading to explosions in which the optical display is
dominated by the material produced in a detonation of the primary white dwarf.