The Ulysses spacecraft has been orbiting the Sun on a highly inclined ellipse
since it encountered Jupiter in February 1992. Since then it made almost three
revolutions about the Sun. Here we report on the final three years of data
taken by the on-board dust detector. During this time, the dust detector
recorded 609 dust impacts of particles with masses 10^-16 g <= m <= 10^-7 g,
bringing the mission total to 6719 dust data sets. The impact rate varied from
a low value of 0.3 per day at high ecliptic latitudes to 1.5 per day in the
inner solar system. The impact direction of the majority of impacts between
2005 and 2007 is compatible with particles of interstellar origin, the rest are
most likely interplanetary particles. We compare the interstellar dust
measurements from 2005/2006 with the data obtained during earlier periods
(1993/1994) and (1999/2000) when Ulysses was traversing the same spatial region
at southern ecliptic latitudes but the solar cycle was at a different phase.
During these three intervals the impact rate of interstellar grains varied by
more than a factor of two. Furthermore, in the two earlier periods the grain
impact direction was in agreement with the flow direction of the interstellar
helium while in 2005/2006 we observed a shift in the approach direction of the
grains by approximately 30 deg away from the ecliptic plane. The reason for
this shift remains unclear but may be connected with the configuration of the
interplanetary magnetic field during solar maximum. We also find that the dust
measurements are in agreement with the interplanetary flux model of Staubach et
al. (1997) which was developed to fit a 5-year span of Ulysses data.