This paper addresses the issue of efficient turbo packet combining techniques
for coded transmission with a Chase-type automatic repeat request (ARQ)
protocol operating over a multiple-input--multiple-output (MIMO) channel with
intersymbol interference (ISI). First of all, we investigate the outage
probability and the outage-based power loss of the MIMO-ISI ARQ channel when
optimal maximum a posteriori (MAP) turbo packet combining is used at the
receiver. We show that the ARQ delay (i.e., the maximum number of ARQ rounds)
does not completely translate into a diversity gain. We then introduce two
efficient turbo packet combining algorithms that are inspired by minimum mean
square error (MMSE)-based turbo equalization techniques. Both schemes can be
viewed as low-complexity versions of the optimal MAP turbo combiner. The first
scheme is called signal-level turbo combining and performs packet combining and
multiple transmission ISI cancellation jointly at the signal-level. The second
scheme, called symbol-level turbo combining, allows ARQ rounds to be separately
turbo equalized, while combining is performed at the filter output. We conduct
a complexity analysis where we demonstrate that both algorithms have almost the
same computational cost as the conventional log-likelihood ratio (LLR)-level
combiner. Simulation results show that both proposed techniques outperform
LLR-level combining, while for some representative MIMO configurations,
signal-level combining has better ISI cancellation capability and achievable
diversity order than that of symbol-level combining.