Ubiquitous sensing enabled by Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) technologies cuts
across many areas of modern day living. This offers the ability to measure,
infer and understand environmental indicators, from delicate ecologies and
natural resources to urban environments. The proliferation of these devices in
a communicating-actuating network creates the Internet of Things (IoT),
wherein, sensors and actuators blend seamlessly with the environment around us,
and the information is shared across platforms in order to develop a common
operating picture (COP). Fuelled by the recent adaptation of a variety of
enabling device technologies such as RFID tags and readers, near field
communication (NFC) devices and embedded sensor and actuator nodes, the IoT has
stepped out of its infancy and is the the next revolutionary technology in
transforming the Internet into a fully integrated Future Internet. As we move
from www (static pages web) to web2 (social networking web) to web3 (ubiquitous
computing web), the need for data-on-demand using sophisticated intuitive
queries increases significantly. This paper presents a cloud centric vision for
worldwide implementation of Internet of Things. The key enabling technologies
and application domains that are likely to drive IoT research in the near
future are discussed. A cloud implementation using Aneka, which is based on
interaction of private and public clouds is presented. We conclude our IoT
vision by expanding on the need for convergence of WSN, the Internet and
distributed computing directed at technological research community.