In an extreme binary black hole system, an orbit will increase its angle of
inclination (i) as it evolves in Kerr spacetime. We focus our attention on the
behaviour of the Carter constant (Q) for near-polar orbits; and develop an
analysis that is independent of and complements radiation reaction models. For
a Schwarzschild black hole, the polar orbits represent the abutment between the
prograde and retrograde orbits at which Q is at its maximum value for given
values of latus rectum (l) and eccentricity (e). The introduction of spin (S =
|J|/M2) to the massive black hole causes this boundary, or abutment, to be
moved towards greater orbital inclination; thus it no longer cleanly separates
prograde and retrograde orbits. To characterise the abutment of a Kerr black
hole (KBH), we first investigated the last stable orbit (LSO) of a
test-particle about a KBH, and then extended this work to general orbits. To
develop a better understanding of the evolution of Q we developed analytical
formulae for Q in terms of l, e, and S to describe elliptical orbits at the
abutment, polar orbits, and last stable orbits (LSO). By knowing the analytical
form of dQ/dl at the abutment, we were able to test a 2PN flux equation for Q.
We also used these formulae to numerically calculate the di/dl of hypothetical
circular orbits that evolve along the abutment. From these values we have
determined that di/dl = -(122.7S - 36S^3)l^-11/2 -(63/2 S + 35/4 S^3) l^-9/2
-15/2 S l^-7/2 -9/2 S l^-5/2. Thus the abutment becomes an important analytical
and numerical laboratory for studying the evolution of Q and i in Kerr
spacetime and for testing current and future radiation back-reaction models for
near-polar retrograde orbits.