We apply the dipole formalism that has been developed to describe low-x deep
inelastic scattering to the case of ultra-high energy real photons with nucleon
and nuclear targets. We hope that there will be future modeling applications in
high-energy particle astrophysics. We modify the dipole model of McDermott,
Frankfurt, Guzey, and Strikman (MFGS) by fixing the cross section at the
maximum value allowed by the unitarity constraint whenever the dipole model
would otherwise predict a unitarity violation. We observe that, under
reasonable assumptions, a significant fraction of the real photon cross section
results from dipole interactions where the QCD coupling constant is small, and
that the MFGS model is consistent with the Froissart bound. The resulting model
predicts a rise of the cross section of about a factor of 12 when the the
photon energy is increased from $10^{3}$ GeV to $10^{12}$ GeV. We extend the
analysis to the case of scattering off a $^{12}$C target. We find that, due to
the low thickness of the light nuclei, unitarity for the scattering off
individual nucleons plays a larger role than for the scattering off the nucleus
as a whole. At the same time the proximity to the black disk limit results in a
substantial increase of the amount of nuclear shadowing. This, in turn, slows
down the rate of increase of the total cross section with energy as compared to
the proton case. As a result we find that the $^{12}$C nuclear cross section
rises by about a factor of 7 when the photon energy is increased from $10^{3}$
GeV to $10^{12}$ GeV. We also find that the fraction of the cross section due
to production of charm reaches 30% for the highest considered energies with a
$^{12}$C target.