In our evolutionary population synthesis models, the samples of binaries are
reproduced by the 'patched' Monte Carlo simulation and the stellar masses,
integrated J, H, K, L, L2 and M magnitudes, mass-to-light ratios and broad
colours involving infrared bands are presented, for an extensive set of
instantaneous-burst binary stellar populations. In addition, the fluctuations
in the integrated colours, which have been given by Zhang et al. (2005), are
reduced.
  By comparing the results for binary stellar populations with (Model A) and
without (Model B) binary interactions we show that the inclusion of binary
interactions makes the stellar mass of a binary stellar population smaller
(~3.6-4.5% during the past 15Gyr); magnitudes greater (except U, ~0.18mag at
the most); colours smaller (~0.15mag for V-K at the most); the mass-to-light
ratios greater (~0.06 for K-band) except those in the U and B passbands at
higher metallicities. And, Binary interactions make the V magnitude less
sensitive to age, R and I magnitudes more sensitive to metallicity.
  Given an age, the absolute values of the differences in the stellar mass,
magnitudes, mass-to-light ratios (except those in the U and B bands) between
Models A and B reach the maximum at Z=0.0001, i.e., the effects of binary
interactions on these parameters reach the maximum, while the differences in
some colours reach the maximum at Z ~0.01-0.0004. On the contrary, the absolute
value of the difference in the stellar mass is minimal at Z=0.03, those in the
U,B,V magnitudes and the mass-to-light ratios in the U and B bands reach the
minimum at Z ~0.01-0.004.