We consider the feasibility of detecting Population III pair-instability
supernovae (PISN) at very high redshifts with the James Webb Space Telescope
(JWST). Four published estimates for the PISNe rate show a rather wide
dispersion, between 50-2200 deg-2 yr-1. Correcting problems with several of
these, we conclude that even a fairly optimistic estimate is probably a further
order of magnitude lower than this range, at a rate of order 4 deg-2 yr-1 at z
\~ 15 and 0.2 deg-2 yr-1 at z ~ 25, both with substantial uncertainty. Although
such supernovae would be bright enough to be readily detectable with the JWST
at any relevant redshift, the lower number densities derived here will likely
require either a dedicated wide-angle search strategy or a serendipitous
search. We expect that typically about 1 deg2 (or 500 JWST NIRCam images) per
detected supernova at 4.5 mm must be imaged to detect one PISN at z ~ 15 and
about 35 deg2 to detect one at z ~ 25. If some Population III star-formation
persists to lower redshifts z ~ 5, then PISNe may also be detectable in
wide-angle ground-based Z-band imaging surveys at ZAB ~ 23, at a density of
order 1 deg-2 of surveyed area. In an Appendix, we consider the possible
effects of intergalactic dust in obscuring high redshift supernovae or other
high redshift sources. We show that the obscuration at a given rest-wavelength
will peak at some maximum redshift and thereafter decline. While it may be a
significant effect in observations of the very high redshift Universe, it is
unlikely, even under rather pessimistic assumptions, to completely obscure
primordial objects.