DANSS is a highly segmented $1m^3$ plastic scintillator detector. Its 2500
scintillator strips have a Gd loaded reflective cover. Light is collected with
3 wave length shifting fibers per strip and read out with 50 PMTs and 2500
SiPMs. The DANSS will be installed under the industrial 3GW$_{th}$ reactor of
the Kalinin Nuclear Power Plant at distances varying from 9.7m to 12.2m from
the reactor core. PMTs and SiPMs collect about 30 photo electrons per MeV
distributed approximately equally between two types of the readout. Light
collection non-uniformity across and along the strip is about $\pm13\%$ from
maximum to minimum. The resulting energy resolution is modest, $\sigma/E=15\%$
at 5MeV. This leads to a smearing of the oscillation pattern comparable with
the smearing due to the large size of the reactor core. Nevertheless because of
the large counting rate ($\sim 10000$ / day), small background ($<1\%$) and
good control of systematic uncertainties due to frequent changes of positions,
the DANSS is quite sensitive to reactor antineutrino oscillations to
hypothetical sterile neutrinos with a mass in eV ballpark suggested recently to
explain a so-called "reactor anomaly". DANSS will have an elaborated
calibration system. The high granularity of the detector allows calibration of
every strip with about 40 thousand cosmic muons every day. The expected
systematic effects do not reduce much the sensitivity region. Tests of the
detector prototype DANSSino demonstrated that in spite of a small size ($4\%$
of DANSS), it is quite sensitive to reactor antineutrinos, detecting about 70
Inverse Beta Decay events per day with the signal-to-background ratio of about
unity. The prototype tests have demonstrated feasibility to reach the design
performance of the DANSS detector.