We suggest two methods for the detection of the formation of disoriented
chiral condensates in heavy ion collisions. We show that the variance in the
number of charged pions (in a suitable range of momentum space) provides a
signature for the observation of a disoriented chiral condensate. The signal
should be observable even if multiple domains of D$\chi$C form provided the
average number of pions per domain is significantly larger than unity. The
variance of the number charged pions alone provides a signal which can be used
even if the number of neutral pions cannot be measured in a given detector. On
the other hand, the probability distribution in $R$, the proportion of neutral
pions to all pions emitted in heavy ion collisions in certain kinematic
regions, has been suggested as a signal of a disoriented chiral condensate.
Here we note that the signature can be greatly enhanced by making suitable cuts
in the data. In particular, we consider reducing the data set such that the $k$
pions with lowest $p_T$ are all neutral. We find that, given such cuts, $<R>$
can be substantially different from 1/3. For example, for a single D$\chi$C
domain without contamination due to incoherently emitted pions, $<R>$ is 3/5
given the pion with lowest $p_T$ is neutral, and 5/7 given the two pions with
lowest $p_T$ are both neutral, {\it etc.}. The effects of multi-domain D$\chi$C
formation and noise due to incoherent pion emission can be systematically
incorporated. Potential applications to experiments and their limitations are
briefly discussed.