While most calculations on the properties of the ferromagnetic semiconductor
GaAs:Mn have focussed on isolated Mn substituting the Ga site (Mn$_{Ga}$), we
investigate here whether alternate lattice sites are favored and what the
magnetic consequences of this might be. Under As-rich (Ga-poor) conditions
prevalent at growth, we find that the formation energies are lower for
Mn$_{Ga}$ over interstitial Mn (Mn$_i$).As the Fermi energy is shifted towards
the valence band maximum via external $p$-doping, the formation energy of
Mn$_i$ is reduced relative to Mn$_{Ga}$. Furthermore, under epitaxial growth
conditions, the solubility of both substitutional and interstitial Mn are
strongly enhanced over what is possible under bulk growth conditions. The high
concentration of Mn attained under epitaxial growth of p-type material opens
the possibility of Mn atoms forming small clusters. We consider various types
of clusters, including the Coulomb-stabilized clusters involving two Mn$_{Ga}$
and one Mn$_i$. While isolated Mn$_i$ are hole killers (donors), and therefore
destroy ferromagnetism,complexes such as Mn$_{Ga}$-Mn$_i$-Mn$_{Ga}$) are found
to be more stable than complexes involving Mn$_{Ga}$-Mn$_{Ga}$-Mn$_{Ga}$. The
former complexes exhibit partial or total quenching of holes, yet Mn$_i$ in
these complexes provide a channel for a ferromagnetic arrangement of the spins
on the two Mn$_{Ga}$ within the complex. This suggests that ferromagnetism in
Mn doped GaAs arises both from holes due to isolated Mn$_{Ga}$ as well as from
strongly Coulomb stabilized Mn$_{Ga}$-Mn$_i$-Mn$_{Ga}$ clusters.