During the observation period 1997, the nearby Blazar Mkn 501 showed
extremely strong emission and high variability. We examine multiwavelength
aspects of this event using radio, optical, soft and hard X-ray and TeV data.
We concentrate on the medium-timescale variability of the broadband spectra,
averaged over weekly intervals.
  We confirm the previously found correlation between soft and hard X-ray
emission and the emission at TeV energies, while the source shows only minor
variability at radio and optical wavelengths. The non-linear correlation
between hard X-ray and TeV fluxes is consistent with a simple analytic estimate
based on an SSC model in which Klein-Nishina effects are important for the
highest-energy electrons in the jet, and flux variations are caused by
variations of the electron density and/or the spectral index of the electron
injection spectrum.
  The time-averaged spectra are fitted with a Synchrotron Self-Compton (SSC)
dominated leptonic jet model, using the full Klein-Nishina cross section and
following the self-consistent evolution of relativistic particles along the
jet, accounting for gamma-gamma absorption and pair production within the
source as well as due to the intergalactic infrared background radiation. The
contribution from external inverse-Compton scattering is tightly constrained by
the low maximum EGRET flux and found to be negligible at TeV energies. We find
that high levels of the X-ray and TeV fluxes can be explained by a hardening of
the energy spectra of electrons injected at the base of the jet, in remarkable
contrast to the trend found for gamma-ray flares of the flat-spectrum radio
quasar PKS 0528+134.