We study the uncertainties in parton distributions, determined in global fits
to deep inelastic and related hard scattering data, due to so-called
theoretical errors. Amongst these, we include potential errors due to the
change of perturbative order (NLO to NNLO), ln(1/x) and ln(1-x) effects,
absorptive corrections and higher-twist contributions. We investigate these
uncertainties both by including explicit corrections to our standard global
analysis and by examining the sensitivity to changes of the x,Q^2,W^2 cuts on
the data that are fitted. In this way we expose those kinematic regions where
the conventional DGLAP description is inadequate. As a consequence we obtain a
set of NLO, and of NNLO, conservative partons where the data are fully
consistent with DGLAP evolution, but over a restricted kinematic domain. We
also examine the potential effects of such issues as the choice of input
parameterization, heavy target corrections, assumptions about the strange quark
sea and isospin violation. Hence we are able to compare the theoretical errors
with those uncertainties due to errors on the experimental measurements, which
we studied previously. We use W and Higgs boson production at the Tevatron and
the LHC as explicit examples of the uncertainties arising from parton
distributions. For many observables the theoretical error is dominant, but for
the cross section for W production at the Tevatron both the theoretical and
experimental uncertainties are small, and hence the NNLO prediction may serve
as a valuable luminosity monitor.