Joint models are used in ageing studies to investigate the association
between longitudinal markers and a time-to-event, and have been extended to
multiple markers and/or competing risks. The competing risk of death must be
considered in the elderly because death and dementia have common risk factors.
Moreover, in cohort studies, time-to-dementia is interval-censored because
dementia is only assessed intermittently. So subjects can become demented and
die between two follow-up visits without being diagnosed. To study pre-dementia
cognitive decline, we propose a joint latent class model combining a (possibly
multivariate) mixed model and an illness-death model handling both interval
censoring (by accounting for a possible unobserved transition to dementia) and
semi-competing risks. Parameters are estimated by maximum likelihood handling
interval censoring. The correlation between the marker and the times-to-events
is captured by latent classes, homogeneous groups with specific risks of death
and dementia and profiles of cognitive decline. We propose markovian and
semi-markovian versions. Both approaches are compared to a joint latent class
model for standard competing risks through a simulation study, and then applied
in a prospective cohort study of cerebral and functional ageing to distinguish
different profiles of cognitive decline associated with risks of dementia and
death. The comparison highlights that among demented subjects, mortality
depends more on age than duration of dementia. This model distinguishes the
so-called terminal pre-death decline (among non-demented subjects) from the
pre-dementia decline.