We present comprehensive photometric and spectroscopic observations of the
faint transient SN 2008S discovered in NGC 6946. SN 2008S exhibited slow
photometric evolution and almost no spectral variability during the first nine
months, implying a high density CS medium. The light curve is similar in shape
to that of SN 1998S and SN 1979C, although significantly fainter at maximum
light. Our quasi-bolometric lightcurve extends to 300 days and shows a tail
phase decay rate consistent with that of ^{56}Co. We propose that this is
evidence for an explosion and formation of ^{56}Ni (0.0015 +/- 0.0004 M_Sun).
The large MIR flux detected shortly after explosion can be explained by a light
echo from pre-exisiting dust. The late NIR flux excess is plausibly due to a
combination of warm newly-formed ejecta dust together with shock-heated dust in
the CS environment. We reassess the progenitor object detected previously in
Spitzer archive images, supplementing this discussion with a model of the MIR
spectral energy distribution. This supports the idea of a dusty, optically
thick shell around SN 2008S with an inner radius of nearly 90AU and outer
radius of 450AU, and an inferred heating source of 3000 K and luminosity of L ~
10^{4.6} L_Sun. The combination of our monitoring data and the evidence from
the progenitor analysis leads us to support the scenario of a weak electron
capture supernova explosion in a super-AGB progenitor star (of initial mass 6-8
M_sun) embedded within a thick CS gaseous envelope. We suggest that all of main
properties of the electron capture SN phenomenon are observed in SN 2008S and
future observations may allow a definitive answer.