Extensive density-functional calculations are performed for chemisorption of
atoms in the three first periods (H, B, C, N, O, F, Al, Si, P, S, and Cl) on
the polar TiC(111) surface. Calculations are also performed for O on TiC(001),
for full O(1x1) monolayer on TiC(111), as well as for bulk TiC and for the
clean TiC(111) and (001) surfaces. Detailed results concerning atomic
structures, energetics, and electronic structures are presented. For the bulk
and the clean surfaces, previous results are confirmed. In addition, new
detailed results are given on the presence of C-C bonds in the bulk and at the
surface, as well as on the presence of a Ti-based surface resonance (TiSR) at
the Fermi level and of C-based surface resonances (CSR's) in the lower part of
the surface upper valence band (UVB). For the adsorption, adsorption energies
E_ads and relaxed geometries are presented, showing great variations
characterized by pyramid-shaped E_ads trends within each period. An
extraordinarily strong chemisorption is found for the O atom, 8.8 eV/adatom. On
the basis of the calculated electronic structures, a concerted-coupling model
for the chemisorption is proposed, in which two different types of
adatom-substrate interactions work together to provide the obtained strong
chemisorption: (i) adatom-TiSR and (ii) adatom-CSR's. This model is used to
successfully describe the essential features of the calculated E_ads trends.
The fundamental nature of this model, based on the Newns-Anderson model, should
make it apt for general application to transition-metal carbides and nitrides,
and for predictive purposes in technological applications, like cutting-tool
multilayer coatings and MAX phases.