HST/NICMOS PSF-subtracted coronagraphic observations of HD 181327 have
revealed the presence of a ring-like disk of circumstellar debris seen in 1.1
micron light scattered by the disk grains, surrounded by a di use outer region
of lower surface brightness. The annular disk appears to be inclined by 31.7
+/- 1.6 deg from face on with the disk major axis PA at 107 +/-2 deg . The
total 1.1 micron flux density of the light scattered by the disk (at 1.2" < r <
5.0") of 9.6 mJy +/- 0.8 mJy is 0.17% +/- 0.015% of the starlight. Seventy
percent of the light from the scattering grains appears to be confined in a 36
AU wide annulus centered on the peak of the radial surface brightness (SB)
profile 86.3 +/- 3.9 AU from the star, well beyond the characteristic radius of
thermal emission estimated from IRAS and Spitzer flux densities assuming
blackbody grains (~ 22 AU). The light scattered by the ring appears bilaterally
symmetric, exhibits directionally preferential scattering well represented by a
Henyey-Greenstein scattering phase function with g = 0.30 +/- 0.03, and has an
azimuthally medianed SB at the 86.3 AU radius of peak SB of 1.00 +/- 0.07 mJy
arcsec^-2. No photocentric offset is seen in the ring relative to the position
of the central star. A low surface brightness diffuse halo is seen in the
NICMOS image to a distance of ~ 4" Deeper 0.6 micron HST/ACS PSF-subtracted
coronagraphic observations reveal a faint outer nebulosity, asymmetrically
brighter to the North of the star. We discuss models of the disk and properties
of its grains, from which we infer a maximum vertical scale height of 4 - 8 AU
at the 87.6 AU radius of maximum surface density, and a total maximum dust mass
of collisionally replenished grains with minimum grain sizes of ~ 1 micron of ~
4 M(moon).