Coordinated multi-point transmission/reception aided collocated antenna
system (CoMP-CAS) and mobile relay assisted fractional frequency reuse
distributed antenna system (MR-FFR-DAS) constitute a pair of virtual-MIMO based
technical options for achieving high spectral efficiency in
interference-limited cellular networks. In practice both techniques have their
respective pros and cons, which are studied in this paper by evaluating the
achievable cell-edge performance on the uplink of multicell systems. We show
that assuming the same antenna configuration in both networks, the maximum
available cooperative spatial diversity inherent in the MR-FFR-DAS is lower
than that of the CoMP-CAS. However, when the cell-edge MSs have a low
transmission power, the lower-complexity MR-FFR-DAS relying on the simple
single-cell processing may outperform the CoMP-CAS by using the proposed
soft-combining based probabilistic data association (SC-PDA) receiver, despite
the fact that the latter scheme is more complex and incurs a higher cooperation
overhead. Furthermore, the benefits of the SC-PDA receiver may be enhanced by
properly selecting the MRs' positions. Additionally, we show that the
performance of the cell-edge MSs roaming near the angular direction halfway
between two adjacent RAs (i.e. the "worst-case direction") of the MR-FFR-DAS
may be more significantly improved than that of the cell-edge MSs of other
directions by using multiuser power control, which also improves the fairness
amongst cell-edge MSs. Our simulation results show that given a moderate MS
transmit power, the proposed MR-FFR-DAS architecture employing the SC-PDA
receiver is capable of achieving significantly better bit-error rate (BER) and
effective throughput across the entire cell-edge area, including even the
"worst-case direction" and the cell-edge boundary, than the CoMP-CAS
architecture.