We report spectroscopic and photometric observations of the Type IIb SN
2011dh obtained between 4 and 34 days after the estimated date of explosion
(May 31.5 UT). The data cover a wide wavelength range from 2,000 Angstroms in
the UV to 2.4 microns in the NIR. Optical spectra provide line profiles and
velocity measurements of HI, HeI, CaII and FeII that trace the composition and
kinematics of the SN. NIR spectra show that helium is present in the atmosphere
as early as 11 days after the explosion. A UV spectrum obtained with the STIS
reveals that the UV flux for SN 2011dh is low compared to other SN IIb. The HI
and HeI velocities in SN 2011dh are separated by about 4,000 km/s at all
phases. We estimate that the H-shell of SN 2011dh is about 8 times less massive
than the shell of SN 1993J and about 3 times more massive than the shell of SN
2008ax. Light curves (LC) for twelve passbands are presented. The maximum
bolometric luminosity of $1.8 \pm 0.2 \times 10^{42}$ erg s$^{-1}$ occurred
about 22 days after the explosion. NIR emission provides more than 30% of the
total bolometric flux at the beginning of our observations and increases to
nearly 50% of the total by day 34. The UV produces 16% of the total flux on day
4, 5% on day 9 and 1% on day 34. We compare the bolometric light curves of SN
2011dh, SN 2008ax and SN 1993J. The LC are very different for the first twelve
days after the explosions but all three SN IIb display similar peak
luminosities, times of peak, decline rates and colors after maximum. This
suggests that the progenitors of these SN IIb may have had similar compositions
and masses but they exploded inside hydrogen shells that that have a wide range
of masses. The detailed observations presented here will help evaluate
theoretical models for this supernova and lead to a better understanding of SN
IIb.