Fixed effects estimators of nonlinear panel data models can be severely
biased because of the incidental parameter problem. We develop analytical and
jackknife bias corrections for nonlinear models with both individual and time
effects. Under asymptotic sequences where the time-dimension ($T$) grows with
the cross-sectional dimension ($N$), the time effects introduce additional
incidental parameter bias. As the existing bias corrections apply to models
with only individual effects, we derive the appropriate corrections for the
case when both effects are present. The basis for the corrections are general
asymptotic expansions of fixed effects estimators with incidental parameters in
multiple dimensions. We apply the expansions to conditional maximum likelihood
estimators with concave objective functions in parameters for panel models with
additively separable individual and time effects. These estimators cover fixed
effects estimators of the most popular limited dependent variable models such
as logit, probit, ordered probit, Tobit and Poisson models. Our analysis
therefore extends the use of large-$T$ bias adjustments to an important class
of models.
  We also analyze the properties of fixed effects estimators of functions of
the data, parameters and individual and time effects including average partial
effects. Here, we uncover that the incidental parameter bias is asymptotically
of second order, because the rate of the convergence of the fixed effects
estimators is slower for average partial effects than for model parameters. The
bias corrections are still effective to improve finite-sample properties.