We present the near-infrared H band luminosity function (hereafter LF) of the
Coma cluster of galaxies. It is the deepest ever computed in the near-infrared,
for any type of environment, extending over 7 magnitudes, down to ~M_H*+6. The
LF was computed on a near-infrared selected sample of galaxies which
photometry, complete down to the typical dwarf luminosity, is presented in a
companion paper. The Coma LF can be described by a Schechter function with
intermediate slope (alpha~-1.3), plus a dip at M_H~-22 mag. The shape of the
Coma LF in H band is quite similar to the one found in the B band and, with
less confidence, to the R band LF as well. The similarity of the LF in the
optical and H bands implies that in the central region of Coma there is no new
population of galaxies which is too faint to be observed in the optical band
(because dust enshrouded, for instance), down to the magnitudes of dwarfs. The
exponential cut of the LF at the bright end is in good agreement with the one
derived from shallower near-infrared samples of galaxies, both in clusters and
in the field. This fact is suggestive of a similarity of the tip of the mass
function of galaxies, irrespective of the environment where they are found. The
dip at M_H~-22 mag is instead unique among all the so far measured
near-infrared LF, although several published observations are not deep enough
or spanning a suitable wide field to distinctly detect this feature. The faint
end of the LF, reaching M_H~-19 mag (roughly M_B~-15), is steep, but less than
previously suggested from shallower near-infrared observations of an adjacent
region in the Coma cluster. The differences between our measured LF and that
measured previously in other regions suggests a dependency on environment of
the faint end of the mass function (below M*+2.5).