Understanding the dynamic solar chromosphere is fundamental in solar physics.
Spicules are an important feature of the chromosphere, connecting the
photosphere to the corona, potentially mediating the transfer of energy and
mass. The aim of this work is to study the properties of spicules over
different regions of the sun. Our goal is to investigate if there is more than
one type of spicules, and how spicules behave in the quiet sun, coronal holes,
and active regions. We make use of high-cadence and high-spatial resolution Ca
II H observations taken by Hinode/SOT. Making use of a semi-automated detection
algorithm, we self-consistently track and measure the properties of 519
spicules over different regions. We find clear evidence of two types of
spicules. Type I spicules show a rise and fall and have typical lifetimes of
150-400 s and maximum ascending velocities of 15-40 km/s, while type II
spicules have shorter lifetimes of 50-150 s, faster velocities of 30-110 km/s,
and are not seen to fall down, but rather fade at around their maximum length.
Type II spicules are the most common, seen in quiet sun and coronal holes. Type
I spicules are seen mostly in active regions. There are regional differences
between quiet sun and coronal hole spicules, likely attributable to the
different field configurations. The properties of type II spicules are
consistent with published results of Rapid Blueshifted Events (RBEs),
supporting the hypothesis that RBEs are their disk counterparts. For type I
spicules we find the relations between their properties to be consistent with a
magnetoacoustic shock wave driver, and with dynamic fibrils as their disk
counterpart. The driver of type II spicules remains unclear from limb
observations.