We present new radial velocity results for 176 stars in the Fornax dwarf
spheroidal galaxy, of which at least 156 are probable Fornax members. We
combine with previously published data to obtain a radial velocity sample with
206 stars, of which at least 176 are probable Fornax members. We detect the
hint of rotation about an axis near Fornax's morphological minor axis, though
the significance of the rotation signal in the galactic rest frame is sensitive
to the adopted value of Fornax's proper motion. Regardless, the observed
stellar kinematics are dominated by random motions, and we do not find
kinematic evidence of tidal disruption. The projected velocity dispersion
profile of the binned dataset remains flat over the sampled region, which
reaches a maximum angular radius of 65 arcmin. Single-component King models in
which mass follows light fail to reproduce the observed flatness of the
velocity dispersion profile. Two-component (luminous plus dark matter) models
can reproduce the data, provided the dark component extends sufficiently beyond
the luminous component, and the central dark matter density is of the same
order as the central luminous density. These requirements suggest a more
massive, darker Fornax than standard core-fitting analyses have previously
concluded, with M/L_V over the sampled region reaching 10 to 40 times the M/L_V
of the luminous component. We also apply a non-parametric mass estimation
technique, introduced in a companion paper. Though it is designed to operate on
datasets containing velocities for $>$1000 stars, the estimation yields
preliminary results suggesting M/L_V ~ 15 inside r < 1.5 kpc.