Maximum mutual information (MMI) is a model selection criterion used for
hidden Markov model (HMM) parameter estimation that was developed more than
twenty years ago as a discriminative alternative to the maximum likelihood
criterion for HMM-based speech recognition. It has been shown in the speech
recognition literature that parameter estimation using the current MMI
paradigm, lattice-based MMI, consistently outperforms maximum likelihood
estimation, but this is at the expense of undesirable convergence properties.
In particular, recognition performance is sensitive to the number of times that
the iterative MMI estimation algorithm, extended Baum-Welch, is performed. In
fact, too many iterations of extended Baum-Welch will lead to degraded
performance, despite the fact that the MMI criterion improves at each
iteration. This phenomenon is at variance with the analogous behavior of
maximum likelihood estimation -- at least for the HMMs used in speech
recognition -- and it has previously been attributed to `over fitting'. In this
paper, we present an analysis of lattice-based MMI that demonstrates, first of
all, that the asymptotic behavior of lattice-based MMI is much worse than was
previously understood, i.e. it does not appear to converge at all, and, second
of all, that this is not due to `over fitting'. Instead, we demonstrate that
the `over fitting' phenomenon is the result of standard methodology that
exacerbates the poor behavior of two key approximations in the lattice-based
MMI machinery. We also demonstrate that if we modify the standard methodology
to improve the validity of these approximations, then the convergence
properties of lattice-based MMI become benign without sacrificing improvements
to recognition accuracy.