In Paper III of our series "A Uniform Analysis of the Ly-alpha forest at z=0
- 5", we presented a set of 270 quasar spectra from the archives of the Faint
Object Spectrograph on the Hubble Space Telescope. A total of 151 of these
spectra, yielding 906 lines, are suitable for using the proximity effect
signature to measure J(\nu_0), the mean intensity of the hydrogen-ionizing
background radiation field, at low redshift. Using a maximum likelihood
technique and the best estimates possible for each QSO's Lyman limit flux and
systemic redshift, we find J(\nu_0)= 7.6^+9.4_-3.0 x 10^-23 ergs s^-1 cm^-2
Hz^-1 sr^-1 at at 0.03 < z < 1.67. This is in good agreement with the mean
intensity expected from models of the background which incorporate only the
known quasar population. When the sample is divided into two subsamples,
consisting of lines with z < 1 and z > 1, the values of J(\nu_0) found are
6.5^+38._-1.6 x 10^-23 ergs s^-1 cm^-2 Hz^-1 sr^-1, and 1.0^+3.8_-0.2 x 10^-22
ergs s^-1 cm^-2 Hz^-1 sr^-1, respectively, indicating that the mean intensity
of the background is evolving over the redshift range of this data set.
Relaxing the assumption that the spectral shapes of the sample spectra and the
background are identical, the best fit HI photoionization rates are found to be
6.7 x 10^-13 s^-1 for all redshifts, and 1.9 x 10^-13 s^-1 and 1.3 x 10^-12
s^-1 for z < 1 and z > 1, respectively. This work confirms that the evolution
of the number density of Ly-alpha lines is driven by a decrease in the ionizing
background from z ~ 2 to z ~ 0 as well as by the formation of structure in the
intergalactic medium. (Abridged)