This article presents measurements of the $t$-channel single top-quark ($t$)
and top-antiquark ($\bar{t}$) total production cross sections $\sigma(tq)$ and
$\sigma(\bar{t}q)$, their ratio $R_{t}=\sigma(tq)/\sigma(\bar{t}q)$, and a
measurement of the inclusive production cross section $\sigma(tq + \bar{t}q)$
in proton--proton collisions at $\sqrt{s} = 7$ TeV at the LHC. Differential
cross sections for the $tq$ and $\bar{t}q$ processes are measured as a function
of the transverse momentum and the absolute value of the rapidity of $t$ and
$\bar{t}$, respectively. The analyzed data set was recorded with the ATLAS
detector and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.59 fb$^{-1}$.
Selected events contain one charged lepton, large missing transverse momentum,
and two or three jets. The cross sections are measured by performing a binned
maximum-likelihood fit to the output distributions of neural networks. The
resulting measurements are $\sigma(tq)= 46\pm 6\; \mathrm{pb}$,
$\sigma(\bar{t}q)= 23 \pm 4\; \mathrm{pb}$, $R_{t}=2.04\pm 0.18$, and
$\sigma(tq + \bar{t}q)= 68 \pm 8\; \mathrm{pb}$, consistent with the Standard
Model expectation. The uncertainty on the measured cross sections is dominated
by systematic uncertainties, while the uncertainty on $R_{t}$ is mainly
statistical. Using the ratio of $\sigma(tq + \bar{t}q)$ to its theoretical
prediction, and assuming that the top-quark-related CKM matrix elements obey
the relation $|V_{tb}|\gg |V_{ts}|, |V_{td}|$, we determine $|V_{tb}|=1.02 \pm
0.07$.