The application of current generation computing machines in safety-centric
applications like implantable biomedical chips and automobile safety has
immensely increased the need for reviewing the worst-case error behavior of
computing devices for fault-tolerant computation. In this work, we propose an
exact probabilistic error model that can compute the maximum error over all
possible input space in a circuit specific manner and can handle various types
of structural dependencies in the circuit. We also provide the worst-case input
vector, which has the highest probability to generate an erroneous output, for
any given logic circuit. We also present a study of circuit-specific error
bounds for fault-tolerant computation in heterogeneous circuits using the
maximum error computed for each circuit. We model the error estimation problem
as a maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate, over the joint error probability
function of the entire circuit, calculated efficiently through an intelligent
search of the entire input space using probabilistic traversal of a binary join
tree using Shenoy-Shafer algorithm. We demonstrate this model using MCNC and
ISCAS benchmark circuits and validate it using an equivalent HSpice model. Both
results yield the same worst-case input vectors and the highest % difference of
our error model over HSpice is just 1.23%. We observe that the maximum error
probabilities are significantly larger than the average error probabilities,
and provides a much tighter error bounds for fault-tolerant computation. We
also find that the error estimates depend on the specific circuit structure and
the maximum error probabilities are sensitive to the individual gate failure
probabilities.