Plasma Physics defines the concept of the Debye length. Given the enormous
electrical potential that would develop with no screening, we conjecture that
the size of the Universe,as given by the speed of light c and its age t, ct,
cannot be very much lower than the Debye length. The Debye length of the
Universe must be of the order of its size ct.It turns out that it is about 6
times larger. Hence inside the volume of size ct there is an outward electrical
pressure due to the lack of complete screening of the electrical charges. We
suggest that these charges are related to the vacuum fluctuations. To the
question of why the Universe does not collapse under its own gravitational
attraction we analyze the possibility to answer this by the effect of the
repulsive forces of these electrical charges. Evidence in support of the idea
that space is not expanding is growing more and more in the scientific
literature. As a frame of work we consider the model of a constant size
Universe that implies a constant equilibrium between the gravitational (GM2/R2)
and the electrical forces (Q2/R2). We find a large number, 5x10^60 that
converts Planck units of mass, length, time, charge e and angular momentum h,
into the mass M, size ct, age t, total charge Q and angular momentum of the
Universe as in a scale-like way. It defines a black hole of mass M 10^56gr.,
size 10^28 cm., characteristic time 5x10^17sec, charge Q 3.3x10^60 e and
maximum angular momentum H 10^120 h which is our Universe. We are inside it, a
part of it. The solution to the Einstein cosmological equations, including an
electrical pressure due to the charge Q, is in agreement with the value of the
cosmological parameters currently reported.