We report the discovery with the Proportional Counter Array on board the
Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer of highly coherent 582 Hz pulsations during the
February 22, 2001 (UT) ``superburst'' from 4U 1636-53. The pulsations are
detected during an 800 s interval spanning the flux maximum of the burst.
Within this interval the barycentric oscillation frequency increases in a
monotonic fashion from 581.89 to 581.93 Hz. The predicted orbital motion of the
neutron star during this interval is consistent with such an increase as long
as optical maximum corresponds roughly with superior conjunction of V801 Arae,
the optical companion to the neutron star in 4U 1636-53. We show that a range
of circular orbits with velocity 90 < v sin i < 175 km/s and fractional phase
0.336 > p > 0.277 for the neutron star can provide an excellent description of
the frequency and phase evolution. The average pulse profile is sinusoidal and
the time averaged pulsation amplitude, as inferred from the half amplitude of
the sinusoid is 1%, smaller than typical for burst oscillations observed in
normal thermonuclear bursts. We do not detect any higher harmonics nor the
putative subharmonic near 290 Hz. The 90% upper limits on signal amplitude at
the subharmonic and first harmonic are 0.1% and 0.06%, respectively. The
coherent pulsation provides compelling evidence for a rapidly rotating neutron
star in 4U 1636-53, and further supports the connection of burst oscillation
frequencies with the spin frequencies of neutron stars. Our results provide
further evidence that some millisecond pulsars are spun up via accretion in
LMXBs. We also discuss the implications of our orbital velocity constraint for
the masses of the components of 4U 1636-53.