We study the price of anarchy in a class of graph coloring games (a subclass
of polymatrix common-payoff games). In those games, players are vertices of an
undirected, simple graph, and the strategy space of each player is the set of
colors from $1$ to $k$. A tight bound on the price of anarchy of
$\frac{k}{k-1}$ is known (Hoefer 2007, Kun et al. 2013), for the case that each
player's payoff is the number of her neighbors with different color than
herself. The study of more complex payoff functions was left as an open
problem.
  We generalize by computing payoff for a player by determining the distance of
her color to each of her neighbors, applying a non-negative, real-valued,
concave function $f$ to each of those distances, and then summing up the
resulting values. Denote $f^*$ the maximum value that $f$ attains on the
possible distances $0,\dots,k-1$. We prove an upper bound of $4$ on the price
of anarchy for general $f$, a bound of $3 \, (1-\frac{1}{k})$ if
$f(\frac{k}{4}) \geq f^*$, a tight bound of $2$ for non-decreasing $f$, and a
tight bound of $2$ if $f$ attains $f^*$ in $\lfloor\frac{k}{2}\rfloor$ and in
$\lceil\frac{k}{2}\rceil$ (tight if $k$ is even). The latter includes what is
also known as cyclic payoff.
  Graph coloring, especially in distributed and game-theoretic settings, is
often used to model spectrum sharing scenarios, such as the selection of WLAN
frequencies. For such an application, our framework would allow to express a
dependence of the degree of radio interference on the distance between two
frequencies.