The effect that the current quark mass $M_0$ may result in nonzero-ness of
chiral condensates is systematically reexamined and analyzed in a two-flavor
Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model simulating Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) at temperature
$T$ and finite quark chemical potential $\mu$ without and with electrical
neutrality (EN) condition and at any $T$ and $\mu$ without EN condition. By
means of a quantitative investigation of the order parameter $m$, it is shown
that a nonzero $M_0$ is bound to lead to nonzero quark-antiquark condensates
throughout chiral phase transitions , no matter whether the order parameter $m$
varies discontinuously or continuously. In fact, a complete disappearance of
the quark-antiquark condensates are proven to demand the non-physical and
unrealistic conditions $\mu \,\geq$ or $\gg\, \sqrt{\Lambda^2+M_0^2}$ if $T=0$
and finite, or $T\to \infty$ if $\mu<\sqrt{\Lambda^2+M_0^2}$, where $\Lambda$
is the 3D momentum cut of the loop integrals. Theoretically these results show
that when $M_0$ is included, we never have a complete restoration of dynamical
(spontaneous) chiral symmetry breaking, including after a first order chiral
phase transition at low $T$ and high $\mu$. In physical reality, it is the
nonzero-ness of the quark-antiquark condensates that leads to the appearance of
a critical end point in the first order phase transition line and the crossover
behavior at high $T$ and/or high $\mu$ cases, rather than a possible
tricritical point and a second order phase transition line. They also provide a
basic reason for that one must consider the interplay between the chiral and
diquark condensates in the research on color superconductor at zero $T$ and
high $\mu$ case. The research shows that how a source term of the Lagrangian
(at present i.e. the current quark mass term) can greatly affect dynamical
behavior of a physical system.