(abridged) Context. Turbulent fluxes of angular momentum and heat due to
rotationally affected convection play a key role in determining differential
rotation of stars. Here we perform a systematic comparison between Cartesian
and spherical geometries as a function of the rotation rate. Aims. We extend
the earlier studies by using spherical wedges to obtain turbulent angular
momentum and heat transport as functions of the rotation rate from stratified
convection. We compare results from spherical and Cartesian models in the same
parameter regime. In particular, we want to clarify whether the sharp
equatorial profile of the horizontal Reynolds stress found in earlier Cartesian
models is reproduced in spherical models. Methods. We employ direct numerical
simulations of turbulent convection. In order to reach as high spatial
resolution as possible in the spherical runs, we model only parts of the
latitude and longitude. The rotational influence, measured by the Coriolis
number, is varied from zero to roughly seven, which is the regime that is
likely to be realised in the solar convection zone. Cartesian simulations are
performed in overlapping parameter regimes. Results. For slow rotation we find
that the radial and latitudinal turbulent angular momentum fluxes are directed
inward and equatorward, respectively. In the rapid rotation regime the radial
flux changes sign in contradiction with theory. The latitudinal flux remains
mostly equatorward and develops a maximum close to the equator. In Cartesian
simulations this peak can be explained by the strong `banana cells'. The
latitudinal heat flux is mostly equatorward for slow rotation but changes sign
for rapid rotation. The rotation profiles vary from anti-solar (slow equator)
for slow and intermediate rotation to solar-like (fast equator) for rapid
rotation. The solar-like profiles are dominated by the Taylor--Proudman
balance.