The study of excess conductivity $\sigma'(T)$ in the textured polycrystalline
FeAs-based superconductor $EuFeAsO_{0.85}F_{0.15}$ ($T_c = 11\, K$) prepared by
the solid state synthesis is reported. The $\sigma'(T)$ analysis has been
performed within the Local Pair (LP) model based on the assumption of the LP
formation in cuprate high-$T_c$ superconductors (cuprates) below the pseudogap
(PG) temperature $T^*\gg T_c$. Similarly to the cuprates, near $T_c$
$\sigma'(T)$ is adequately described by the 3D term of the Aslamasov-Larkin
(AL) theory but the range of the 3D-AL fluctuations, $\Delta T_{3D}$, is
relatively short. Above the crossover temperature $T_0 \approx 11.7\,K$
$\sigma'(T)$ is described by the 2D Maki-Thompson (MT) fluctuation term of the
Hikami-Larkin (HL) theory. But enhanced 2D-MT fluctuation contribution, being
typical for the magnetic superconductors, is observed. Within the LP model
approach the PG parameter, $\Delta^*(T)$, was determined for the first time.
$\Delta^*(T)$ shows the narrow maximum at $T_s \approx 160\,K$ followed by the
linear drop down to $T_{SDW}=T_{NFe}\approx 133\,K$. Both small $\Delta T_{3D}$
and enhanced $\sigma'(T)$, including linear $\Delta^*(T)$ drop, are considered
to be the evidence of the enhanced magnetic interaction in
$EuFeAsO_{0.85}F_{0.15}$. Importantly, the slop of the linear $\Delta^*(T)$ and
its length are found to be the same as observed for $SmFeAsO_{0.85}$. The
results suggest both the similarity of magnetic interaction processes in
different Fe-pnictides and applicability of the LP model approach to the
$\sigma'(T)$ analysis even in magnetic superconductors.