We report about the multi-frequency (1-30 GHz) daily monitoring of the radio
flux variability of the three microquasars: SS433, GRS1915+105 and Cyg X-3
during the period from September 2005 to May 2006. 1. We detected clear
correlation of the flaring radio fluxes and X-rays 'spikes' at 2-12 keV
emission detected in RXTE ASM from GRS1915+105 during eight relatively bright
(200-600 mJy) radio flares in October 2005. The 1-22 GHz spectra of these
flares in maximum were optically thick at frequencies lower 2.3 GHz and
optically thin at the higher frequencies. During the radio flares the spectra
of the X-ray spikes become softer than those of the quiescent phase. Thus these
data indicated the transitions from very high/hard states to high/soft ones
during which massive ejections are probably happened. These ejections are
visible as the detected radio flares. 2. After of the quiescent radio emission
we have detected a drop down of the fluxes (~20 mJy) from Cyg X-3. That is a
sign of the following bright flare. Indeed such a 1Jy-flare was detected on 3
February 2006 after 18 days of the quenched radio emission. The daily spectra
of the flare in the maximum was flat from 1 to 100 GHz, using the
quasi-simultaneous observations at 109 GHz with RT45m telescope and millimeter
array (NMA) of Nobeyama Radio Observatory in Japan. The several bright radio
flaring events (1-10 Jy) followed during this state of very variable and
intensive 1-12 keV X-ray emission (~0.5 Crab), which being monitored in RXTE
ASM program.