We report on the analysis of the Kepler short-cadence (SC) light curve of
V344 Lyr obtained during 2009 June 20 through 2010 Mar 19 (Q2--Q4). The system
is an SU UMa star showing dwarf nova outbursts and superoutbursts, and promises
to be a touchstone for CV studies for the foreseeable future. The system
displays both positive and negative superhumps with periods of 2.20 and
2.06-hr, respectively, and we identify an orbital period of 2.11-hr. The
positive superhumps have a maximum amplitude of ~0.25-mag, the negative
superhumps a maximum amplitude of ~0.8 mag, and the orbital period at
quiescence has an amplitude of ~0.025 mag. The quality of the Kepler data is
such that we can test vigorously the models for accretion disk dynamics that
have been emerging in the past several years. The SC data for V344 Lyr are
consistent with the model that two physical sources yield positive superhumps:
early in the superoutburst, the superhump signal is generated by viscous
dissipation within the periodically flexing disk, but late in the
superoutburst, the signal is generated as the accretion stream bright spot
sweeps around the rim of the non-axisymmetric disk. The disk superhumps are
roughly anti-phased with the stream/late superhumps. The V344 Lyr data also
reveal negative superhumps arising from accretion onto a tilted disk precessing
in the retrograde direction, and suggest that negative superhumps may appear
during the decline of DN outbursts. The period of negative superhumps has a
positive dP/dt in between outbursts.