We present 10 new gamma-ray burst (GRB) redshifts and another five redshift
limits based on host galaxy spectroscopy obtained as part of a large program
conducted at the Very Large Telescope (VLT). The redshifts span the range 0.345
< z < 2.54. Three of our measurements revise incorrect values from the
literature. The homogeneous host sample researched here consists of 69 hosts
that originally had a redshift completeness of 55% (with 38 out of 69 hosts
having redshifts considered secure). Our project, including VLT/X-shooter
observations reported elsewhere, increases this fraction to 77% (53/69), making
the survey the most comprehensive in terms of redshift completeness of any
sample to the full Swift depth, analyzed to date. We present the cumulative
redshift distribution and derive a conservative, yet small, associated
uncertainty. We constrain the fraction of Swift GRBs at high redshift to a
maximum of 14% (5%) for z > 6 (z > 7). The mean redshift of the host sample is
assessed to be <z> > 2.2, with the 10 new redshifts reducing it significantly.
Using this more complete sample, we confirm previous findings that the GRB rate
at high redshift (z > 3) appears to be in excess of predictions based on
assumptions that it should follow conventional determinations of the star
formation history of the universe, combined with an estimate of its likely
metallicity dependence. This suggests that either star formation at high
redshifts has been significantly underestimated, for example due to a dominant
contribution from faint, undetected galaxies, or that GRB production is
enhanced in the conditions of early star formation, beyond that usually
ascribed to lower metallicity.