We carried out the photometric observations of the SU UMa-type dwarf nova ER
UMa during 2011 and 2012, which showed the existence of persistent negative
superhumps even during the superoutburst. We performed two-dimensional period
analysis of its light curves by using a method called "least absolute shrinkage
and selection operator" (Lasso) and "phase dispersion minimization" (PDM)
analysis, and we found that the period of negative superhumps systematically
changed between a superoutburst and the next superoutburst. The trend of the
period change can beinterpreted as reflecting the change of the disk radius.
This change of the disk radius is in good agreement with the predicted change
of the disk radius by the thermal-tidal instability (TTI) model. The normal
outbursts within a supercycle showed a general trend that the rising rate to
maximum becomes slower as the next superoutburst approaches. The change can be
interpreted as the consequence of the increased gas-stream flow onto the inner
region of the disk as the result of the tilted disk. Some of the superoutbursts
were found to be triggered by a precursor normal outburst when the positive
superhumps appeared to develop. The positive and negative superhumps co-existed
during the superoutburst. The positive superhumps were prominent only during
four or five days after the supermaximum, while the signal of the negative
superhumps became strong after the middle phase of the superoutburst plateau. A
simple combination of the positive and negative superhumps was found to be
insufficient in reproducing the complex profile variation. We were able to
detect the developing phase of positive superhumps (stage A superhumps) for the
first time in ER UMa-type dwarf novae. Using the period of stage A superhumps,
we obtained a mass ratio of 0.100(15), which indicates that ER UMa is on the
ordinary evolutional track of CVs.