Multidimensional magneto-hydrodynamical (MHD) simulations coupled with
stochastic differential equations (SDEs) adapted to test particle acceleration
and transport in complex astrophysical flows are presented. The numerical
scheme allows the investigation of shock acceleration, adiabatic and radiative
losses as well as diffusive spatial transport in various diffusion regimes. The
applicability of SDEs to astrophysics is first discussed in regards to the
different regimes and the MHD code spatial resolution. The procedure is then
applied to 2.5D MHD-SDE simulations of kilo-parsec scale extragalactic jets.
The ability of SDE to reproduce analytical solutions of the
diffusion-convection equation for electrons is tested through the incorporation
of an increasing number of effects: shock acceleration, spatially dependent
diffusion coefficients and synchrotron losses. The SDEs prove to be efficient
in various shock configuration occurring in the inner jet during the
development of the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability. The particle acceleration in
snapshots of strong single and multiple shock acceleration including realistic
spatial transport is treated. In chaotic magnetic diffusion regime, turbulence
levels $\eta_T=<\delta B^2>/(B^2+<\delta B^2>)$ around $0.2-0.3$ are found to
be the most efficient to enable particles to reach the highest energies. The
spectrum, extending from 100 MeV to few TeV (or even 100 TeV for fast flows),
does not exhibit a power-law shape due to transverse momentum dependent
escapes. Out of this range, the confinement is not so efficient and the
spectrum cut-off above few hundreds of GeV, questioning the Chandra
observations of X-ray knots as being synchrotron radiation. The extension to
full time dependent simulations to X-ray extragalactic jets is discussed.