The time variation in the water-vapour bands in oxygen-rich Mira variables
has been investigated using multi-epoch ISO/SWS spectra of four Mira variables
in the 2.5-4.0 micron region. All four stars show H2O bands in absorption
around minimum in the visual light curve. At maximum, H2O emission features
appear in the ~3.5-4.0 micronm region, while the features at shorter
wavelengths remain in absorption. These H2O bands in the 2.5-4.0 micron region
originate from the extended atmosphere.
  The analysis has been carried out with a disk shape, slab geometry model. The
observed H2O bands are reproduced by two layers; a `hot' layer with an
excitation temperature of 2000 K and a `cool' layer with an excitation
temperature of 1000-1400 K. The radii of the `hot' layer (R_hot) are ~1 R_* at
visual minimum and 2 R_* at maximum, where R_* is a radius of background source
of the model. The time variation of R_hot/R_* from 1 to 2 is attributed to the
actual variation in the radius of the H2O layer. A high H2O density shell
occurs near the surface of the star around minimum, and moves out with the
stellar pulsation. This shell gradually fades away after maximum, and a new
high H2O density shell is formed in the inner region again at the next minimum.
Due to large optical depth of H2O, the near-infrared variability is dominated
by the H2O layer, and the L'-band flux correlates with the area of the H2O
shell. The infrared molecular bands trace the structure of the extended
atmosphere and impose appreciable effects on near-infrared light curve of Mira
variables.