We present the results of a study of weak lensing by galaxies based on 45.5
deg$^2$ of $R_C$ band imaging data from the Red-Sequence Cluster Survey (RCS).
We present the first weak lensing detection of the flattening of galaxy dark
matter halos. We use a simple model in which the ellipticity of the halo is $f$
times the observed ellipticity of the lens. We find a best fit value of
$f=0.77^{+0.18}_{-0.21}$, suggesting that the dark matter halos are somewhat
rounder than the light distribution. The fact that we detect a significant
flattening implies that the halos are well aligned with the light distribution.
Given the average ellipticity of the lenses, this implies a halo ellipticity of
$<e_{\rm halo} >=0.33^{+0.07}_{-0.09}$, in fair agreement with results from
numerical simulations of CDM. This result provides strong support for the
existence of dark matter, as an isotropic lensing signal is excluded with 99.5%
confidence. We also study the average mass profile around the lenses, using a
maximum likelihood analysis. We consider two models for the halo mass profile:
a truncated isothermal sphere (TIS) and an NFW profile. We adopt
observationally motivated scaling relations between the lens luminosity and the
velocity dispersion and the extent of the halo. The best fit NFW model yields a
mass $M_{200}=(8.4\pm0.7\pm0.4)\times 10^{11} h^{-1} M_\odot$ and a scale
radius $r_s=16.2^{+3.6}_{-2.9} h^{-1}$ kpc. This value for the scale radius is
in excellent agreement with predictions from numerical simulations for a halo
of this mass.