The chemical composition of the earths atmosphere far from equilibrium is
unique in the solar system and has been attributed to the presence of
widespread life. Here I show that this perspective can be quantified using
non-equilibrium thermodynamics. Generating disequilibrium in a thermodynamic
variable requires the extraction of power from another thermodynamic gradient,
and the second law of thermodynamics imposes fundamental limits on how much
power can be extracted. When applied to complex earth system processes, where
several irreversible processes compete to deplete the same gradients, it is
easily shown that the maximum thermodynamic efficiency is much less than the
classic Carnot limit, so that the ability of the earth system to generate power
and disequilibrium is limited. This approach is used to quantify how much free
energy is generated by various earth system processes to generate chemical
disequilibrium. It is shown that surface life generates orders of magnitude
more chemical free energy than any abiotic surface process, therefore being the
primary driving force for shaping the geochemical environment at the planetary
scale. To apply this perspective to the possible future of the planet, we first
note that the free energy consumption by human activity is a considerable term
in the free energy budget of the planet, and that global changes are closely
related to this consumption of free energy. Since human activity and demands
for free energy is going to increase in the future, the central question is how
human free energy demands can increase sustainably without negatively impacting
the ability of the earth system to generate free energy. I illustrate the
implications of this thermodynamic perspective by discussing the forms of
renewable energy and planetary engineering that would enhance overall free
energy generation and thereby "empower" the future of the planet.