We present new intermediate-band Stroemgren photometry based on more than 300
u,v,b,y images of the Galactic globular cluster Omega Cen. Optical data were
supplemented with new multiband near-infrared (NIR) photometry (350 J,H,K_s
images). The final optical-NIR catalog covers a region of more than 20*20
arcmin squared across the cluster center. We use different optical-NIR
color-color planes together with proper motion data available in the literature
to identify candidate cluster red giant (RG) stars. By adopting different
Stroemgren metallicity indices we estimate the photometric metallicity for
~4,000 RGs, the largest sample ever collected. The metallicity distributions
show multiple peaks
([Fe/H]_phot=-1.73+/-0.08,-1.29+/-0.03,-1.05+/-0.02,-0.80+/-0.04,-0.42+/-0.12
and -0.07+/-0.08 dex) and a sharp cut-off in the metal-poor tail
([Fe/H]_phot<=-2 dex) that agree quite well with spectroscopic measurements. We
identify four distinct sub-populations,namely metal-poor (MP,[Fe/H]<=-1.49),
metal-intermediate (MI,-1.49<[Fe/H]<=-0.93), metal-rich
(MR,-0.95<[Fe/H]<=-0.15) and solar metallicity (SM,[Fe/H]~0). The last group
includes only a small fraction of stars (~8+/-5%) and should be confirmed
spectroscopically. Moreover, using the difference in metallicity based on
different photometric indices, we find that the 19+/-1% of RGs are candidate
CN-strong stars. This fraction agrees quite well with recent spectroscopic
estimates and could imply a large fraction of binary stars. The Stroemgren
metallicity indices display a robust correlation with alpha-elements
([Ca+Si/H]) when moving from the metal-intermediate to the metal-rich regime
([Fe/H]>-1.7 dex).