We compute zero-frequency (neutral) quasi-normal f-modes of fully
relativistic and rapidly rotating neutron stars, using several realistic
equations of state (EOSs) for neutron star matter. The zero-frequency modes
signal the onset of the gravitational radiation-driven instability. We find
that the l=m=2 (bar) f-mode is unstable for stars with gravitational mass as
low as 1.0 - 1.2 M_\odot, depending on the EOS. For 1.4 M_\odot neutron stars,
the bar mode becomes unstable at 83 % - 93 % of the maximum allowed rotation
rate. For a wide range of EOSs, the bar mode becomes unstable at a ratio of
rotational to gravitational energies T/W \sim 0.07-0.09 for 1.4 M_\odot stars
and T/W \sim 0.06 for maximum mass stars. This is to be contrasted with the
Newtonian value of T/W \sim 0.14. We construct the following empirical formula
for the critical value of T/W for the bar mode,
  (T/W)_2 = 0.115 - 0.048 M / M_{max}^{sph}, which is insensitive to the EOS to
within 4 - 6 %. This formula yields an estimate for the neutral mode sequence
of the bar mode as a function only of the star's mass, M, given the maximum
allowed mass, M_{max}^{sph}, of a nonrotating neutron star. The recent
discovery of the fast millisecond pulsar in the supernova remnant N157B,
supports the suggestion that a fraction of proto-neutron stars are born in a
supernova collapse with very large initial angular momentum. Thus, in a
fraction of newly born neutron stars the instability is a promising source of
continuous gravitational waves. It could also play a major role in the
rotational evolution (through the emission of angular momentum) of merged
binary neutron stars, if their post-merger angular momentum exceeds the maximum
allowed to form a Kerr black hole.