Over the last two decades, many exciting variable selection methods have been
developed for finding a small group of covariates that are associated with the
response from a large pool. Can the discoveries by such data mining approaches
be spurious due to high-dimensionality and limited sample size? Can our
fundamental assumptions on exogeneity of covariates needed for such variable
selection be validated with the data? To answer these questions, we need to
derive the distributions of the maximum spurious correlations given certain
number of predictors, namely, the distribution of the correlation of a response
variable $Y$ with the best $s$ linear combinations of $p$ covariates
$\mathbf{X}$, even when $\mathbf{X}$ and $Y$ are independent. When the
covariance matrix of $\mathbf{X}$ possesses the restricted eigenvalue property,
we derive such distributions for both finite $s$ and diverging $s$, using
Gaussian approximation and empirical process techniques. However, such a
distribution depends on the unknown covariance matrix of $\mathbf{X}$. Hence,
we propose a multiplier bootstrap method to approximate the unknown
distributions and establish the consistency of such a simple bootstrap
approach. The results are further extended to the situation where residuals are
from regularized fits. Our approach is then applied to construct the upper
confidence limit for the maximum spurious correlation and testing exogeneity of
covariates. The former provides a baseline for guiding false discoveries due to
data mining and the latter tests whether our fundamental assumptions for
high-dimensional model selection are statistically valid. Our techniques and
results are illustrated by both numerical examples.