In order to study the host galaxies of type 1 (broad-line) quasars, we
present a semi-analytic modelling method to decompose the on-nucleus spectra of
quasars into nuclear and host galaxy channels. The method uses the spatial
information contained in long-slit or slitlet spectra. A routine determines the
best fitting combination of the spatial distribution of the point like nucleus
and extended host galaxy. Inputs are a simultaneously observed PSF, and
external constraints on galaxy morphology from imaging. We demonstrate the
capabilities of the method to two samples of a total of 18 quasars observed
with EFOSC at the ESO 3.6m telescope and FORS1 at the ESO VLT.
  ~50% of the host galaxies with sucessful decomposition show distortions in
their rotation curves or peculiar gas velocities above normal maximum
velocities for disks. This is consistent with the fraction from optical
imaging. All host galaxies have quite young stellar populations, typically 1-2
Gyr. For the disk dominated hosts these are consistent with their inactive
counterparts, the luminosity weighted stellar ages are much younger for the
bulge dominated hosts, compared to inactive early type galaxies. While this
presents further evidence for a connection of galaxy interaction and AGN
activity for half of the sample, this is not clear for the other half: These
are often undistorted disk dominated host galaxies, and interaction on a
smaller level might be detected in deeper high-resolution images or deeper
spectroscopic data. The velocity information does not show obvious signs for
large scale outflows triggered by AGN feedback - the data is consistent with
velocity fields created by galaxy interaction.