By fixing all parameters in a phylogenetic likelihood model except for one
branch length, one obtains a one-dimensional likelihood function. In this work,
we introduce a mathematical framework to characterize the shapes of such
one-dimensional phylogenetic likelihood functions. This framework is based on
analyses of algebraic structures on the space of all frequency patterns with
respect to a polynomial representation of the likelihood functions. Using this
framework, we provide conditions under which the one-dimensional phylogenetic
likelihood functions are guaranteed to have at most one stationary point, and
this point is the maximum likelihood branch length. These conditions cover an
abundant class of evolution models that includes all binary models, the
Jukes-Cantor model and the Felsenstein 1981 model.
  We then prove that for the simplest model that does not satisfy our
conditions, namely, the Kimura 2-parameter model, the one-dimensional
likelihood functions may have multiple stationary points. As a proof of
concept, we construct a non-degenerate example in which the phylogenetic
likelihood function has two local maxima and a local minimum. To construct such
examples, we derive a general method of constructing a tree and sequence data
with a specified frequency pattern at the root. We then extend the result to
prove that the space of all rescaled and translated one-dimensional
phylogenetic likelihood functions under the Kimura 2-parameter model is dense
in the space of all continuous functions on $[0, \infty)$ with finite limits.
These results indicate that one-dimensional likelihood functions under advanced
evolutionary models can be more complex than it is typically assumed by
phylogenetic inference algorithms; however, these complexities can be
effectively captured by the Kimura 2-parameter model.