Chandra data on A1795 reveal a mild edge-shaped discontinuity in the gas
density and temperature in the southern sector of the cluster at r=60/h kpc.
The gas inside the edge is 1.3-1.5 times denser and cooler than outside, while
the pressure is continuous, indicating that this is a "cold front", the surface
of contact between two moving gases. The continuity of the pressure indicates
that the current relative velocity of the gases is near zero, making the edge
appear to be in hydrostatic equilibrium. However, a total mass profile derived
from the data in this sector under the equilibrium assumption, exhibits an
unphysical jump by a factor of 2, with the mass inside the edge being lower. We
propose that the cooler gas is "sloshing" in the cluster gravitational
potential well and is now near the point of maximum displacement, where it has
zero velocity but nonzero centripetal acceleration. The distribution of this
non-hydrostatic gas should reflect the reduced gravity force in the
accelerating reference frame, resulting in the apparent mass discontinuity.
Assuming that the gas outside the edge is hydrostatic, the acceleration of the
moving gas can be estimated from the mass jump, a ~ 800 h km/s/(10^8 yr). The
gravitational potential energy of this gas that is available for dissipation is
about half of its current thermal energy. The length of the cool filament
extending from the cD galaxy (Fabian et al.) may give the amplitude of the gas
sloshing, 30-40/h kpc. Such gas bulk motion might be caused by a disturbance of
the central gravitational potential by past subcluster infall.