Let $G\cong C_{n_1}\oplus ... \oplus C_{n_r}$ be a finite and nontrivial
abelian group with $n_1|n_2|...|n_r$. A conjecture of Hamidoune says that if
$W=w_1... w_n$ is a sequence of integers, all but at most one relatively prime
to $|G|$, and $S$ is a sequence over $G$ with $|S|\geq |W|+|G|-1\geq |G|+1$,
the maximum multiplicity of $S$ at most $|W|$, and $\sigma(W)\equiv 0\mod |G|$,
then there exists a nontrivial subgroup $H$ such that every element $g\in H$
can be represented as a weighted subsequence sum of the form
$g=\sum_{i=1}^{n}w_is_i$, with $s_1... s_n$ a subsequence of $S$. We give two
examples showing this does not hold in general, and characterize the
counterexamples for large $|W|\geq {1/2}|G|$.
  A theorem of Gao, generalizing an older result of Olson, says that if $G$ is
a finite abelian group, and $S$ is a sequence over $G$ with $|S|\geq
|G|+D(G)-1$, then either every element of $G$ can be represented as a
$|G|$-term subsequence sum from $S$, or there exists a coset $g+H$ such that
all but at most $|G/H|-2$ terms of $S$ are from $g+H$. We establish some very
special cases in a weighted analog of this theorem conjectured by Ordaz and
Quiroz, and some partial conclusions in the remaining cases, which imply a
recent result of Ordaz and Quiroz. This is done, in part, by extending a
weighted setpartition theorem of Grynkiewicz, which we then use to also improve
the previously mentioned result of Gao by showing that the hypothesis $|S|\geq
|G|+D(G)-1$ can be relaxed to $|S|\geq |G|+d^*(G)$, where
$d^*(G)=\Sum_{i=1}^{r}(n_i-1)$. We also use this method to derive a variation
on Hamidoune's conjecture valid when at least $d^*(G)$ of the $w_i$ are
relatively prime to $|G|$.