An automated search is carried out for microlensing events using a catalogue
of 44554 variable superpixel lightcurves derived from our three-year monitoring
program of M31. Each step of our candidate selection is objective and
reproducible by a computer. Our search is unrestricted, in the sense that it
has no explicit timescale cut. So, it must overcome the awkward problem of
distinguishing long-timescale microlensing events from long-period stellar
variables. The basis of the selection algorithm is the fitting of the
superpixel lightcurves to two different theoretical models, using variable star
and blended microlensing templates. Only if microlensing is preferred is an
event retained as a possible candidate. Further cuts are made with regard to
(i) sampling, (ii) goodness of fit of the peak to a Paczynski curve, (iii)
consistency of the microlensing hypothesis with the absence of a resolved
source, (iv) achromaticity, (v) position in the colour-magnitude diagram and
(vi) signal-to-noise ratio. Our results are reported in terms of first-level
candidates, which are the most trustworthy, and second-level candidates, which
are possible microlensing but have lower signal-to-noise and are more
questionable. The pipeline leaves just 3 first-level candidates, all of which
have very short full-width half-maximum timescale (<5 days) and 3 second-level
candidates, which have timescales of 31, 36 and 51 days respectively. We also
show 16 third-level lightcurves, as an illustration of the events that just
fail the threshold for designation as microlensing candidates. They are almost
certainly mainly variable stars. Two of the 3 first-level candidates correspond
to known events (PA 00-S3 and PA 00-S4) already reported by the POINT-AGAPE
project. The remaining first-level candidate is new.