Atmospheric flows exhibit fractal fluctuations and inverse power law form for
power spectra indicating an eddy continuum structure for the selfsimilar
fluctuations. A general systems theory for fractal fluctuations developed by
the contributor is based on the simple visualisation that large eddies form by
space-time integration of enclosed turbulent eddies, a concept analogous to
Kinetic Theory of Gases in Classical Statistical Physics. The ordered growth of
atmospheric eddy continuum is in dynamical equilibrium and is associated with
Maximum Entropy Production. The model predicts universal (scale-free) inverse
power law form for fractal fluctuations expressed in terms of the golden mean.
Atmospheric particulates are held in suspension in the fractal fluctuations of
vertical wind velocity. The mass or radius (size) distribution for homogeneous
suspended atmospheric particulates is expressed as a universal
scale-independent function of the golden mean, the total number concentration
and the mean volume radius. Model predicted spectrum is in agreement (within
two standard deviations on either side of the mean) with total averaged radius
size spectra for the AERONET (aerosol inversions) stations Davos and Mauna Loa
for the year 2010 and Izana for the year 2009 daily averages. The general
systems theory model for aerosol size distribution is scale free and is derived
directly from atmospheric eddy dynamical concepts. At present empirical models
such as the log normal distribution with arbitrary constants for the size
distribution of atmospheric suspended particulates are used for quantitative
estimation of earth-atmosphere radiation budget related to climate
warming/cooling trends. The universal aerosol size spectrum will have
applications in computations of radiation balance of earth-atmosphere system in
climate models.