Using the Chandra X-ray Observatory and the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer, we
have studied the black hole candidate (BHC) X-ray transient XTE J1650-500 near
the end of its 2001-2002 outburst after its transition to the low-hard state at
X-ray luminosities down to L = 1.5E34 erg/s (1-9 keV, assuming a source
distance of 4 kpc). Our results include a characterization of the spectral and
timing properties. At the lowest sampled luminosity, we used an 18 ks Chandra
observation to measure the power spectrum at low frequencies. For the 3 epochs
at which we obtained Chandra/RXTE observations, the 0.5-20 keV energy spectrum
is consistent with a spectral model consisting of a power-law with interstellar
absorption. We detect evolution in the power-law photon index from 1.66 +/-
0.05 to 1.93 +/- 0.13 (90% confidence errors), indicating that the source
softens at low luminosities. The power spectra are characterized by strong
(20-35% fractional rms) band-limited noise, which we model as a zero-centered
Lorentzian. Including results from an RXTE study of XTE J1650-500 near the
transition to the low-hard state by Kalemci et al. (2003), the half-width of
the zero-centered Lorentzian (roughly where the band-limited noise cuts off)
drops from 4 Hz at L = 7E36 erg/s (1-9 keV, absorbed) to 0.067 +/- 0.007 Hz at
L = 9E34 erg/s to 0.0035 +/- 0.0010 Hz at the lowest luminosity. While the
spectral and timing parameters evolve with luminosity, it is notable that the
general shapes of the energy and power spectra remain the same, indicating that
the source stays in the low-hard state. This implies that the X-ray emitting
region of the system likely keeps the same overall structure, while the
luminosity changes by a factor of 470. We discuss how these results may
constrain theoretical black hole accretion models.