This is the first in a series of three papers that addresses the behaviour of
the droplet that results, in the percolating phase, from conditioning the
Fortuin-Kasteleyn planar random cluster model on the presence of an open dual
circuit Gamma_0 encircling the origin and enclosing an area of at least (or
exactly) n^2. (By the Fortuin-Kasteleyn representation, the model is a close
relative of the droplet formed by conditioning the Potts model on an excess of
spins of a given type.) We consider local deviation of the droplet boundary,
measured in a radial sense by the maximum local roughness, MLR(Gamma_0), this
being the maximum distance from a point in the circuit Gamma_0 to the boundary
of the circuit's convex hull; and in a longitudinal sense by what we term
maximum facet length, MFL(Gamma_0), namely, the length of the longest line
segment of which the boundary of the convex hull is formed. The principal
conclusion of the series of papers is the following uniform control on local
deviation: that there are positive constants c and C such that the conditional
probability that the normalised quantity n^{-1/3}\big(\log n \big)^{-2/3}
MLR(Gamma_0) lies in the interval [c,C] tends to 1 in the high n-limit; and
that the same statement holds for n^{-2/3}\big(\log n \big)^{-1/3}
MFL(Gamma_0). In this way, we confirm the anticipated n^{1/3} scaling of
maximum local roughness, and provide a sharp logarithmic power-law correction.
This local deviation behaviour occurs by means of locally Gaussian effects
constrained globally by curvature, and we believe that it arises in a range of
radially defined stochastic interface models, including several in the
Kardar-Parisi-Zhang universality class. This paper is devoted to proving the
upper bounds in these assertions, and includes a heuristic overview of the
surgical technique used in the three papers.