The multidimensional convolutional codes are an extension of the notion of
convolutional codes (CCs) to several dimensions of time. This paper explores
the class of two-dimensional convolutional codes (2D CCs) and 2D tail-biting
convolutional codes (2D TBCCs), in particular, from several aspects. First, we
derive several basic algebraic properties of these codes, applying algebraic
methods in order to find bijective encoders, create parity check matrices and
to inverse encoders. Next, we discuss the minimum distance and weight
distribution properties of these codes. Extending an existing tree-search
algorithm to two dimensions, we apply it to find codes with high minimum
distance. Word-error probability asymptotes for sample codes are given and
compared with other codes. The results of this approach suggest that 2D TBCCs
can perform better than comparable 1D TBCCs or other codes. We then present
several novel iterative suboptimal algorithms for soft decoding 2D CCs, which
are based on belief propagation. Two main approaches to decoding are
considered. We first focus on a decoder which extends the concept of trellis
decoding to two dimensions. Second, we investigate algorithms which use the
code's parity check matrices. We apply conventional BP in the parity domain,
but improve it with a novel modification. Next, we test the generalized belief
propagation (GBP) algorithm. Performance results are presented and compared
with optimum decoding techniques and bounds. The results show that our
suboptimal algorithms achieve respectable results, in some cases coming as
close as 0.2dB from optimal (maximum-likelihood) decoding. However for some of
the codes there is still a large gap from the optimal decoder.