UV and optical images of the face-on spiral galaxies NGC 6753 and NGC 6782
reveal regions of strong on-going star formation that are associated with
structures traced by the old stellar populations. We make NUV--(NUV-I) pixel
color-magnitude diagrams (pCMDs) that reveal plumes of pixels with strongly
varying NUV surface brightness and nearly constant I surface brightness. The
plumes correspond to sharply bounded radial ranges, with (NUV-I) at a given NUV
surface brightness being bluer at larger radii. The plumes are parallel to the
reddening vector and simple model mixtures of young and old populations, thus
neither reddening nor the fraction of the young population can produce the
observed separation between the plumes. The images, radial surface-brightness,
and color plots indicate that the separate plumes are caused by sharp declines
in the surface densities of the old populations at radii corresponding to disk
resonances. The maximum surface brightness of the NUV light remains nearly
constant with radius, while the maximum I surface brightness declines sharply
with radius. An MUV image of NGC 6782 shows emission from the nuclear ring. The
distribution of points in an (MUV-NUV) vs. (NUV-I) pixel color-color diagram is
broadly consistent with the simple mixture model, but shows a residual trend
that the bluest pixels in (MUV-NUV) are the reddest pixels in (NUV-I). This may
be due to a combination of red continuum from late-type supergiants and [SIII]
emission lines associated with HII regions in active star-forming regions. We
have shown that pixel mapping is a powerful tool for studying the distribution
and strength of on-going star formation in galaxies. Deep, multi-color imaging
can extend this to studies of extinction, and the ages and metallicities of
composite stellar populations in nearby galaxies.