The photometric and spectroscopic evolution of the He/N and very fast Nova
Cyg 2008 N2 (V2491 Cyg) is studied in detail. A primary maximum was reached at
V=7.45 +/-0.05 on April 11.37 (+/-0.1) 2008 UT, followed by a smooth decline
characterized by t2(V)=4.8 days, and then a second maximum was attained at
V=9.49 +/-0.03, 14.5 days after the primary one. This is the only third nova to
have displayed a secondary maximum, after V2362 Cyg and V1493 Aql. The
development and energetics of the secondary maximum is studied in detail. The
smooth decline that followed was accurately monitored until day +144 when the
nova was 8.6 mag fainter than maximum brightness, well into its nebular phase,
with its line and continuum emissivity declining as t-3. The reddening
affecting the nova was E(B-V)=0.23 +/-0.01, and the distance of 14 kpc places
the nova at a height above the galactic plane of 1.1 kpc, larger than typical
for He/N novae. The expansion velocity of the bulk of ejecta was 2000 km/sec,
with complex emission profiles and weak P-Cyg absorptions during the optically
thick phase, and saddle-like profiles during the nebular phase.
Photo-ionization analysis of the emission line spectrum indicates that the mass
ejected by the outburst was 5.3 10(-6) Msun and the mass fractions to be
X=0.573, Y=0.287, Z=0.140, with those of individual elements being N=0.074,
O=0.049, Ne=0.015. The metallicity of the accreted material was [Fe/H]=-0.25,
in line with ambient value at the nova galacto-centric distance. Additional
spectroscopic and photometric observations at days +477 and +831 show the nova
returned to the brightness level of the progenitor and to have resumed the
accretion onto the white dwarf.