We present results for models of neutron stars and strange stars constructed
using the Hartle-Thorne slow-rotation method with a wide range of equations of
state, focusing on the values obtained for the angular momentum $J$ and the
quadrupole moment $Q$, when the gravitational mass $M$ and the rotational
frequency $\Omega$ are specified. Building on previous work, which showed
surprising uniformity in the behaviour of the moment of inertia for
neutron-star models constructed with widely-different equations of state, we
find similar uniformity for the quadrupole moment. These two quantities,
together with the mass, are fundamental for determining the vacuum space-time
outside neutron stars. We study particularly the dimensionless combination of
parameters $QM/J^2$ (using units for which $c=G=1$). This quantity goes to 1 in
the case of a Kerr-metric black hole and deviations away from 1 then
characterize the difference between neutron-star and black-hole space-times. It
is found that $QM/J^2$ for both neutron stars and strange stars decreases with
increasing mass, for a given equation of state, reaching a value of around 2
(or even less) for maximum-mass models, meaning that their external space-time
is then rather well approximated by the Kerr metric. If $QM/J^2$ is plotter
against compactness $R/2M$ (where $R$ is the radius), it is found that the
relationship is nearly unique for neutron-star models, independent of the
equation of state, while it is significantly different for strange stars. This
gives a new way of possibly distinguishing between them.