We have carried out first principles, all-electron computations of the
magnetic momentum density $\rho_{mag}({\mathbf p})$ and magnetic Compton
profiles (MCPs) for momentum transfer along the [100], [001], and [110]
directions in LaSr$_2$Mn$_2$O$_7$ and La$_{1.2}$Sr$_{1.8}$Mn$_2$O$_7$ within
the local spin density approximation (LSDA) based band theory framework.
Parallel measurements of these three MCPs from a single crystal of
La$_{1.2}$Sr$_{1.8}$Mn$_2$O$_7$ at 5 K in a magnetic field of 7 T are also
reported. $\rho_{mag}({\mathbf p})$ is shown to contain distinct peaks arising
from the occupied majority-spin $t_{2g}$ electrons and to display images of the
Fermi surface (FS) in the first and higher Brillouin zones (BZs). The overall
shape of the MCPs, $J_{mag}(p_z)$, obtained by integrating $\rho_{mag}({\mathbf
p})$ over $p_x$ and $p_y$, is found to be dominated by the majority-spin
$t_{2g}$ states. The FS-related fine structure in the MCPs is however
substantial only in the [100] MCP, which contains features arising from the
large majority-spin hole sheets. The overall shapes and widths of the
experimental MCPs along all three directions investigated are in reasonably
good accord with theoretical predictions, although some discrepancies
indicating inadequacy of the LSDA in treating the magnetic states can be
identified. We discuss details of the FS-related signatures in the first and
higher BZs in the [100] MCP and show that high resolution magnetic Compton
scattering experiments with a momentum resolution of 0.1 a.u. FWHM
(full-width-at-half-maximum) or better will be necessary to observe this fine
structure. We comment also on the feasibility of using positron annihilation
spectroscopy in this connection.