We use observed UV through near IR spectra to examine whether SN 2011fe can
be understood in the framework of Branch-normal SNe Ia and to examine its
individual peculiarities. As a benchmark, we use a delayed-detonation model
with a progenitor metallicity of Z_solar/20. We study the sensitivity of
features to variations in progenitor metallicity, the outer density profile,
and the distribution of radioactive nickel. The effect of metallicity
variations in the progenitor have a relatively small effect on the synthetic
spectra. We also find that the abundance stratification of SN 2011fe resembles
closely that of a delayed detonation model with a transition density that has
been fit to other Branch-normal Type Ia supernovae. At early times, the model
photosphere is formed in material with velocities that are too high, indicating
that the photosphere recedes too slowly or that SN 2011fe has a lower specific
energy in the outer ~0.1 M_sun than does the model. We discuss several
explanations for the discrepancies. Finally, we examine variations in both the
spectral energy distribution and in the colors due to variations in the
progenitor metallicity, which suggests that colors are only weak indicators for
the progenitor metallicity, in the particular explosion model that we have
studied. We do find that the flux in the U band is significantly higher at
maximum light in the solar metallicity model than in the lower metallicity
model and the lower metallicity model much better matches the observed
spectrum.