A simple model for the Milky Way halo is presented. It has a flat rotation
curve in the inner regions, but the density falls off sharply beyond an outer
edge. This truncated, flat rotation curve (TF) model possesses a rich family of
simple distribution functions which vary in velocity anisotropy. The model is
used to estimate the total mass of the Milky Way halo using the latest data on
the motions of satellite galaxies and globular clusters at Galactocentric radii
greater than 20 kpc. This comprises a dataset of 27 objects with known
distances and radial velocities, of which 6 also possess measured proper
motions. Unlike earlier investigations, we find entirely consistent maximum
likelihood solutions unaffected by the presence or absence of Leo I, provided
both radial and proper motion data are used. The availability of the proper
motion data for the satellites is crucial as, without them, the mass estimates
with and without Leo I are inconsistent at the 99 % confidence level. All these
results are derived from models in which the velocity normalisation of the halo
potential is taken as 220 km/s. A detailed analysis of the uncertainties in our
estimate is presented, including the effects of the small dataset, possible
incompleteness or correlations in the satellite galaxy sample and the
measurement errors. The most serious uncertainties come from the size of the
dataset, which may cause a systematic underestimate by a factor of two, and the
measurement errors, which cause a scatter in the mass of the order of a factor
of two. We conclude that the total mass of the halo is 1.9 x 10^12 solar
masses, while the mass within 50 kpc is 5.4 x 10^11 solar masses. Future
prospects using radial velocity surveys of blue horizontal branch stars and
microarcsecond astrometry from the upcoming satellite missions are discussed.