Long-range beam-beam interactions (parasitic crossings) were one of the main
luminosity performance limitations for the lepton F-factory DAFNE in its
original configuration. In particular, the parasitic crossings led to a
substantial lifetime reduction of both beams in collision. This puts a limit on
the maximum storable current and, as a consequence, on the achievable peak and
integrated luminosity. In order to mitigate the problem, numerical and
experimental studies of the parasitic crossings compensation by
current-carrying wires have been done. During the operation for the KLOE
experiment two such wires have been installed at both ends of the interaction
region. They produced a relevant improvement in the lifetime of the weak beam
(positrons) at the maximum current of the strong one (electrons) without
luminosity loss, in agreement with the numerical predictions. The same
compensating mechanism has been adopted during the run for the FINUDA
experiment as well, with less evident benefits than in the previous case. The
interplay between nonlinearities originating from the beam-beam interaction and
the ring lattice has been studied by theoretical simulation and experimental
measurements. Compensation procedures have been set up relying on the
electromagnetic octupoles installed on both rings and used in addition to wire
compensation.
  In this paper the parasitic crossings effects in the DAFNE interaction
regions and their compensation by wires and octupoles are described. A detailed
theoretical analysis of the interplay about different non-linearities is
presented; eventually experimental measurements and observations are discussed.