Integrating discrete information extracted from random process solves the
impulse cutoff entropy functional (EF) measure on trajectories Markov diffusion
process, integrated in information path functional (IPF). Process additive
functional defines EF reducing it to a regular integral functional. Compared to
Shannon entropy measure of random state, cutting process on separated states
decreases quantity information concealed in the states correlation holding
hidden process information. Infinite dimensional process cutoffs integrate
finite information in IPF whose information approaches EF restricting maximal
information of the Markov process. Delta impulse and discrete impulse deliver
equivalent information at each cutoff. Constructed finite restriction limits
impulses discrete actions cutting the regular integral on EF increments between
the cutoffs. Finite impulse step-up action transfers EF increment to following
impulse whose step-down action cuts off information and step-up action starts
imaginary-virtual impulse carrying entropy increment to next real cut.
Step-down cut generates maximal information while step-up action delivers
minimal information from impulse cut to next impulse step-down action. Virtual
impulse transfers conjugated entropy increments during microprocess ending with
adjoining increment within actual step-down action at cutoff. Extracting
maximum of minimal impulse information and transferring minimal entropy between
impulses implement maxmin-minimax principle of converting process entropy to
information. Macroprocess extremal integrates imaginary entropy of microprocess
and cutoff information of real impulses in IPF information physical process. EF
cut measures Feller kernel information. Estimation extracting information
confirms nonadditivity of EF measured process fractions.