The characterization of the polarimetric properties of the planet Earth is
important for the interpretation of expected observations and the planning of
future instruments. We present a multi-wavelengths and multi-phase set of
benchmark values for the polarization signal of the integrated light from the
planet Earth derived from new polarimetric observations of the earthshine
back-scattered from the Moon's dark side. Using a new, specially designed wide
field polarimeter we measured the fractional polarization of the earthshine in
the B, V, R and I filters for Earth phase angles alpha between 30{\deg} and
110{\deg}. The phase dependence of the earthshine polarization is fitted by a
function p x sin(alpha)^2. To determine the polarization of the planet Earth we
correct our earthshine measurements by a polarization efficiency function for
the lunar surface derived from measurements of lunar samples from the
literature. The polarization of the earthshine decreases towards longer
wavelengths and is about a factor 1.3 lower for the higher albedo highlands.
For mare regions the measured maximum polarization is about 13 % at quadrature
in the B band. The resulting fractional polarizations for Earth are 24.6 % for
the B band, 19.1 % for the V band, 13.5 % for the R band, and 8.3 % for the I
band. Together with literature values for the spectral reflectivity of Earth we
obtain a contrast between the polarized flux of the Earth and the (total) flux
of the Sun with an uncertainty of less than 20 % and we find that the best
phase to detect an Earth twin is around an Earth phase alpha=65{\deg}. The
polarimetric models of Earth-like planets from Stam (2008) are in qualitative
agreement with our results but there are also significant differences which
might guide more detailed computations.