We have measured solar-like oscillations in red giants using time-series
photometry from the first 34 days of science operations of the Kepler Mission.
The light curves, obtained with 30-minute sampling, reveal clear oscillations
in a large sample of G and K giants, extending in luminosity from the red clump
down to the bottom of the giant branch. We confirm a strong correlation between
the large separation of the oscillations (Delta nu) and the frequency of
maximum power (nu_max). We focus on a sample of 50 low-luminosity stars (nu_max
> 100 muHz, L <~ 30 L_sun) having high signal-to-noise ratios and showing the
unambiguous signature of solar-like oscillations. These are H-shell-burning
stars, whose oscillations should be valuable for testing models of stellar
evolution and for constraining the star-formation rate in the local disk. We
use a new technique to compare stars on a single echelle diagram by scaling
their frequencies and find well-defined ridges corresponding to radial and
non-radial oscillations, including clear evidence for modes with angular degree
l=3. Measuring the small separation between l=0 and l=2 allows us to plot the
so-called C-D diagram of delta nu_02 versus Delta nu. The small separation
delta nu_01 of l=1 from the midpoint of adjacent l=0 modes is negative,
contrary to the Sun and solar-type stars. The ridge for l=1 is notably
broadened, which we attribute to mixed modes, confirming theoretical
predictions for low-luminosity giants. Overall, the results demonstrate the
tremendous potential of Kepler data for asteroseismology of red giants.