We develop an analytical method for studying the properties of a
non-interacting Wormlike Chain (WLC) in confined geometries. The mean
field-like theory replaces the rigid constraints of confinement with average
constraints, thus allowing us to develop a tractable method for treating a WLC
wrapped on the surface of a sphere, and fully encapsulated within it. The
efficacy of the theory is established by reproducing the exact correlation
functions for a WLC confined to the surface of a sphere. In addition, the
coefficients in the free energy are exactly calculated. We also describe the
behavior of a surface-confined chain under external tension that is relevant
for single molecule experiments on histone-DNA complexes. The force-extension
curves display spatial oscillations, and the extension of the chain, whose
maximum value is bounded by the sphere diameter, scales as $f^{-1}$ at large
forces, in contrast to the unconfined chain that approaches the contour length
as $f^{-1/2}$. A WLC encapsulated in a sphere, that is relevant for the study
of the viral encapsulation of DNA, can also be treated using the MF approach.
The predictions of the theory for various correlation functions are in
excellent agreement with Langevin simulations. We find that strongly confined
chains are highly structured by examining the correlations using a local
winding axis. The predicted pressure of the system is in excellent agreement
with simulations but, as is known, is significantly lower than the pressures
seen for DNA packaged in viral capsids.