Stellar activity induces apparent radial velocity (RV) variations in
late-type main-sequence stars that may hamper the detection of low-mass planets
and the measurement of their mass. We use simultaneous measurements of the
active planet host star HD189733 with high-precision optical photometry by the
MOST satellite and high-resolution spectra by SOPHIE. We apply on this unique
dataset a spot model to predict the activity-induced RV variations and compare
them with the observed ones. The model is based on the rotational modulation of
the stellar flux. A maximum entropy regularization is applied to find a unique
and stable solution for the distribution of the active regions versus stellar
longitude. The RV variations are synthesized considering the effects on the
line profiles of the brightness perturbations due to dark spots and bright
faculae and the reduction of the convective blueshifts in the active regions.
The synthesized RV time series shows a remarkably good agreement with the
observed one although variations on timescales shorter than 4-5 days cannot be
reproduced by our model. Persistent active longitudes are revealed by the spot
modelling. They rotate with slightly different periods yielding a minimum
relative amplitude of the differential rotation of \Delta \Omega / \Omega =
0.23 \pm 0.10. The method proves capable of reducing the power of the
activity-induced RV variations by a factor from 2 to 10 at the rotation
frequency and its harmonics up to the third. Thanks to the high-precision
space-borne photometry delivered by CoRoT, Kepler, or later PLATO, it is
possible to map the longitudinal distribution of active regions in late-type
stars and apply the method presented in this paper to reduce remarkably the
impact of stellar activity on their RV jitter allowing us to confirm the
detection of low-mass planets or refine the measurement of their mass.