We present stellar kinematics for a sample of 10 early-type galaxies observed
using the STIS aboard the Hubble Space Telescope, and the Modular Spectrograph
on the MDM Observatory 2.4-m telescope. The spectra are used to derive
line-of-sight velocity distributions (LOSVDs) of the stars using a Maximum
Penalized Likelihood method. We use Gauss-Hermite polynomials to parameterize
the LOSVDs and find predominantly negative h4 values (boxy distributions) in
the central regions of our galaxies. One galaxy, NGC 4697, has significantly
positive central h4 (high tail weight). The majority of galaxies have a central
velocity dispersion excess in the STIS kinematics over ground-based velocity
dispersions. The galaxies with the strongest rotational support, as quantified
with v_MAX/sigma_STIS, have the smallest dispersion excess at STIS resolution.
The best-fitting, general, axisymmetric dynamical models (described in a
companion paper) require black holes in all cases, with masses ranging from
10^6.5 to 10^9.3 Msun. We replot these updated masses on the BH/sigma relation,
and show that the fit to only these 10 galaxies has a slope consistent with the
fits to larger samples. The greatest outlier is NGC 2778, a dwarf elliptical
with relatively poorly constrained black hole mass. The two best candidates for
pseudobulges, NGC 3384 and 7457, do not deviate significantly from the
established relation between black hole and sigma. Neither do the three
galaxies which show the most evidence of a recent merger, NGC 3608, 4473, and
4697.