Protein-surface interactions are ubiquitous in biological processes and
bioengineering, yet are not fully understood. In biosensors, a key factor
determining the sensitivity and thus the performance of the device is the
orientation of the ligand molecules on the bioactive device surface. Adsorption
studies thus seek to determine how orientation can be influenced by surface
preparation. In this work, protein orientation near charged nanosurfaces is
obtained under electrostatic effects using the Poisson-Boltzmann equation, in
an implicit-solvent model. Sampling the free energy for protein GB1D4' at a
range of tilt and rotation angles with respect to the charged surface, we
calculated the probability of the protein orientations and observed a dipolar
behavior. This result is consistent with published experimental studies and
combined Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulations using this small
protein, validating our method. More relevant to biosensor technology,
antibodies such as immunoglobulin G are still a formidable challenge to
molecular simulation, due to their large size. We obtained the probability
distribution of orientations for the iso-type IgG2a at varying surface charge
and salt concentration. This iso-type was not found to have a preferred
orientation in previous studies, unlike the iso-type IgG1 whose larger dipole
moment was assumed to make it easier to control. We find that the preferred
orientation of IgG2a can be favorable for biosensing with positive surface
charge of 0.05C/m$^{2}$ or higher and 37mM salt concentration. The results also
show that local interactions dominate over dipole moment for this protein.
Improving immunoassay sensitivity may thus be assisted by numerical studies
using our method (and open-source code), guiding changes to fabrication
protocols or protein engineering of ligand molecules to obtain more favorable
orientations.