This project models and studies the `head-on' collision of liquid helium
nanodroplets within a vacuum, using molecular dynamics simulation techniques.
Programs written in MATLAB and C are utilized in tandem to facilitate computer
experimentation that achieves this goal. The most expensive computation, that
of collision simulation, is handled by a HPC cluster `ALICE' at the University
of Leicester.
  Colliding droplets are modelled as roughly spherical collections of points,
cut from a simple cubic lattice, obeying a modified Lennard-Jones potential,
with average velocities initialized to ensure a `head-on' collision. These
point-sets are then allowed to collide within a cuboid region, designed to take
advantage of the observed angular distribution of post-collision fragmentation
(favoring a plane orthogonal to `collision axis').
  To implement the developed theoretical model, an existing C script by D. C.
Rapaport, for modelling a homogeneous liquid state, is edited by the contributor to
fit the given, highly heterogeneous scenario. To do analysis on the resulting
positions and velocities of points in time, a precise definition of `droplet'
was required. An object is defined, from the perspective of metric space, to
satisfy this need. An existing cluster analysis algorithm, DBSCAN, is used to
apply this definition to the points in simulation.
  The results presented here focus on three distinct properties of
post-collision droplets, these being size, speed and temperature; for collision
speed varying across ten equidistant averages chosen based on visual
examination of collisions. Quantitative evidence of post-collision droplet
speed being inversely proportional to droplet radius is presented, droplet
temperature distribution post-collision is noted, and qualitative change in
collision behavior across a certain threshold of collision speed is observed.