We propose a probabilistic framework for interpreting and developing hard
thresholding sparse signal reconstruction methods and present several new
algorithms based on this framework. The measurements follow an underdetermined
linear model, where the regression-coefficient vector is the sum of an unknown
deterministic sparse signal component and a zero-mean white Gaussian component
with an unknown variance. We first derive an expectation-conditional
maximization either (ECME) iteration that guarantees convergence to a local
maximum of the likelihood function of the unknown parameters for a given signal
sparsity level. To analyze the reconstruction accuracy, we introduce the
minimum sparse subspace quotient (SSQ), a more flexible measure of the sampling
operator than the well-established restricted isometry property (RIP). We prove
that, if the minimum SSQ is sufficiently large, ECME achieves perfect or
near-optimal recovery of sparse or approximately sparse signals, respectively.
We also propose a double overrelaxation (DORE) thresholding scheme for
accelerating the ECME iteration. If the signal sparsity level is unknown, we
introduce an unconstrained sparsity selection (USS) criterion for its selection
and show that, under certain conditions, applying this criterion is equivalent
to finding the sparsest solution of the underlying underdetermined linear
system. Finally, we present our automatic double overrelaxation (ADORE)
thresholding method that utilizes the USS criterion to select the signal
sparsity level. We apply the proposed schemes to reconstruct sparse and
approximately sparse signals from tomographic projections and compressive
samples.