A family of spherical halo models with flat circular velocity curves is
presented. This includes models in which the rotation curve has a finite
central value but declines outwards (like the Jaffe model). It includes models
in which the rotation curve is rising in the inner parts, but flattens
asymptotically (like the Binney model). The family encompasses models with both
finite and singular (cuspy) density profiles. The self-consistent distribution
function depending on binding energy $E$ and angular momentum $L$ is derived
and the kinematical properties of the models discussed. These really describe
the properties of the total matter (both luminous and dark). For comparison
with observations, it is better to consider tracer populations of stars. These
can be used to represent elliptical galaxies or the spheroidal components of
spiral galaxies. Accordingly, we study the properties of tracers with power-law
or Einasto profiles moving in the doubloon potential. Under the assumption of
spherical alignment, we provide a simple way to solve the Jeans equations for
the velocity dispersions. This choice of alignment is supported by observations
on the stellar halo of the Milky Way. Power-law tracers have prolate spheroidal
velocity ellipsoids everywhere. However, this is not the case for Einasto
tracers, for which the velocity ellipsoids change from prolate to oblate
spheroidal near the pole. Asymptotic forms of the velocity distributions close
to the escape speed are also derived, with an eye to application to the high
velocity stars in the Milky Way. Power-law tracers have power-law or Maxwellian
velocity distributions tails, whereas Einasto tracers have super-exponential
cut-offs.