The application of compressive sensing (CS) to structural health monitoring
is an emerging research topic. The basic idea in CS is to use a
specially-designed wireless sensor to sample signals that are sparse in some
basis (e.g. wavelet basis) directly in a compressed form, and then to
reconstruct (decompress) these signals accurately using some inversion
algorithm after transmission to a central processing unit. However, most
signals in structural health monitoring are only approximately sparse, i.e.
only a relatively small number of the signal coefficients in some basis are
significant, but the other coefficients are usually not exactly zero. In this
case, perfect reconstruction from compressed measurements is not expected. A
new Bayesian CS algorithm is proposed in which robust treatment of the
uncertain parameters is explored, including integration over the
prediction-error precision parameter to remove it as a "nuisance" parameter.
The performance of the new CS algorithm is investigated using compressed data
from accelerometers installed on a space-frame structure and on a cable-stayed
bridge. Compared with other state-of-the-art CS methods including our
previously-published Bayesian method which uses MAP (maximum a posteriori)
estimation of the prediction-error precision parameter, the new algorithm shows
superior performance in reconstruction robustness and posterior uncertainty
quantification. Furthermore, our method can be utilized for recovery of lost
data during wireless transmission, regardless of the level of sparseness in the
signal.