We decompose the rotation curves of 34 bright spiral galaxies into baryonic
and dark matter components. Stellar mass profiles are created by applying
color-M/L relations to near-infrared and optical photometry. We find that the
radial profile of the baryonic-to-dark-matter ratio is self-similar for all
galaxies, when scaled to the radius where the contribution of the baryonic mass
to the rotation curve equals that of the dark matter (R_X). We argue that this
is due to the quasi-exponential nature of disks and rotation curves that are
nearly flat after an initial rise. The radius R_X is found to correlate most
strongly with baryonic rotation speed, such that galaxies with R_X measurements
that lie further out in their disks rotate faster. This quantity also
correlates very strongly with stellar mass, Hubble type, and observed rotation
speed; B-band central surface brightness is less related to R_X than these
other galaxy properties. Most of the galaxies in our sample appear to be close
to maximal disk. For these galaxies, we find that maximum observed rotation
speeds are tightly correlated with maximum rotation speeds predicted from the
baryon distributions, such that one can create a Tully-Fisher relation based on
surface photometry and redshifts alone. Finally, we compare our data to the NFW
parameterization for dark matter profiles with and without including adiabatic
contraction as it is most commonly implemented. Fits are generally poor, and
all but 2 galaxies are better fit if adiabatic contraction is not performed. In
order to have better fits, and especially to accommodate adiabatic contraction,
baryons would need to contribute very little to the total mass in the inner
parts of galaxies, seemingly in contrast with other observational constraints.