The maximum ratio of the tangential force to the mean background radial force
is a useful quantitative measure of the strength of nonaxisymmetric
perturbations in disk galaxies. Here we consider the distribution of this
ratio, called Qg, for a statistically well-defined sample of 180 spiral
galaxies from the Ohio State University Bright Galaxy Survey and the Two Micron
All-Sky Survey. Qg is derived from gravitational potentials inferred from
near-infrared images under the assumptions of a constant mass-to-light ratio
and an exponential vertical density law. In order to derive the most reliable
maximum relative torques, orientation parameters based on blue-light isophotes
are used to deproject the galaxies, and the more spherical shapes of bulges are
taken into account using two-dimensional decompositions which allow for
analytical fits to bulges, disks, and bars. Also, vertical scaleheights hz are
derived by scaling the radial scalelengths hR from the two-dimensional
decompositions allowing for the type dependence of hR/hz indicated by optical
and near-infrared studies of edge-on spiral galaxies. The impact of dark matter
is assessed using a "universal rotation curve" parametrization, and is found to
be relatively insignificant for our sample. In agreement with a previous study
by Block et al. (2002), the distribution of maximum relative gravitational
torques is asymmetric towards large values and shows a deficiency of low Qg
galaxies. However, due to the above refinements, our distribution shows more
low Qg galaxies than Block et al. We also find a significant type-dependence in
maximum relative gravitational torques, in the sense that Qg is lower on
average in early-type spirals compared to late-type spirals.