We use Virtual Observatory (VO) tools to identify optically faint, obscured
(i.e., type 2) active galactic nuclei (AGN) in the two Great Observatories
Origins Deep Survey (GOODS) fields. By employing publicly available X-ray and
optical data and catalogues we discover 68 type 2 AGN candidates. The X-ray
powers of these sources are estimated by using a previously known correlation
between X-ray luminosity and X-ray-to-optical flux ratio. Thirty-one of our
candidates have high estimated powers (Lx > 10^44 erg/s) and therefore qualify
as optically obscured quasars, the so-called ``QSO 2''. Based on the derived
X-ray powers, our candidates are likely to be at relatively high redshifts, z ~
3, with the QSO 2 at z ~ 4. By going ~ 3 magnitudes fainter than previously
known type 2 AGN in the two GOODS fields we are sampling a region of redshift -
power space which was previously unreachable with classical methods. Our method
brings to 40 the number of QSO 2 in the GOODS fields, an improvement of a
factor ~ 4 when compared to the only 9 such sources previously known. We derive
a QSO 2 surface density down to 10^-15 erg/cm^2/s in the 0.5 - 8 keV band of >~
330/deg^2, ~ 30% of which is made up of previously known sources. This is
larger than current estimates and some predictions and suggests that the
surface density of QSO 2 at faint flux limits has been underestimated. This
work demonstrates that VO tools are mature enough to produce cutting-edge
science results by exploiting astronomical data beyond ``classical''
identification limits (R <~ 25) with interoperable tools for statistical
identification of sources using multiwavelength information.