The solar seismic waves excited by solar flares (``sunquakes'') are observed
as circular expanding waves on the Sun's surface. The first sunquake was
observed for a flare of July 9, 1996, from the Solar and Heliospheric
Observatory (SOHO) space mission. However, when the new solar cycle started in
1997, the observations of solar flares from SOHO did not show the seismic
waves, similar to the 1996 event, even for large X-class flares during the
solar maximum in 2000-2002. The first evidence of the seismic flare signal in
this solar cycle was obtained for the 2003 ``Halloween'' events, through
acoustic ``egression power'' by Donea and Lindsey. After these several other
strong sunquakes have been observed. Here, I present a detailed analysis of the
basic properties of the helioseismic waves generated by three solar flares in
2003-2005. For two of these flares, X17 flare of October 28, 2003, and X1.2
flare of January 15, 2005, the helioseismology observations are compared with
simultaneous observations of flare X-ray fluxes measured from the RHESSI
satellite. These observations show a close association between the flare
seismic waves and the hard X-ray source, indicating that high-energy electrons
accelerated during the flare impulsive phase produced strong compression waves
in the photosphere, causing the sunquake. The results also reveal new physical
properties such as strong anisotropy of the seismic waves, the amplitude of
which varies significantly with the direction of propagation. The waves travel
through surrounding sunspot regions to large distances, up to 120 Mm, without
significant decay. These observations open new perspectives for helioseismic
diagnostics of flaring active regions on the Sun and for understanding the
mechanisms of the energy release and transport in solar flares.