X-ray tomographic image reconstruction consists of determining an object
function from its projections. In many applications such as non-destructive
testing, we look for a fault region (air) in a homogeneous, known background
(metal). The image reconstruction problem then becomes the determination of the
shape of the default region. Two approaches can be used: modeling the image as
a binary Markov random field and estimating the pixels of the image, or
modeling the shape of the fault and estimating it directly from the
projections. In this work we model the fault shape by a deformable polygonal
disc or a deformable polyhedral volume and propose a new method for directly
estimating the coordinates of its vertices from a very limited number of its
projections. The basic idea is not new, but in other competing methods, in
general, the fault shape is modeled by a small number of parameters (polygonal
shapes with very small number of vertices, snakes and deformable templates) and
these parameters are estimated either by least squares or by maximum likelihood
methods. We propose modeling the shape of the fault region by a polygon with a
large number of vertices, allowing modeling of nearly any shape and estimation
of its vertices' coordinates directly from the projections by defining the
solution as the minimizer of an appropriate regularized criterion. This
formulation can also be interpreted as a maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate in
a Bayesian estimation framework. To optimize this criterion we use either a
simulated annealing or a special purpose deterministic algorithm based on
iterated conditional modes (ICM). The simulated results are very encouraging,
especially when the number and the angles of projections are very limited.