Bayesian methods since the time of Laplace have been understood by their
practitioners as closely aligned to the scientific method. Indeed a recent
champion of Bayesian methods, E. T. Jaynes, titled his textbook on the subject
Probability Theory: the Logic of Science. Many philosophers of science
including Karl Popper and Donald Campbell have interpreted the evolution of
Science as a Darwinian process consisting of a 'copy with selective retention'
algorithm abstracted from Darwin's theory of Natural Selection. Arguments are
presented for an isomorphism between Bayesian Methods and Darwinian processes.
Universal Darwinism, as the term has been developed by Richard Dawkins, Daniel
Dennett and Susan Blackmore, is the collection of scientific theories which
explain the creation and evolution of their subject matter as due to the
operation of Darwinian processes. These subject matters span the fields of
atomic physics, chemistry, biology and the social sciences. The principle of
Maximum Entropy states that systems will evolve to states of highest entropy
subject to the constraints of scientific law. This principle may be inverted to
provide illumination as to the nature of scientific law. Our best cosmological
theories suggest the universe contained much less complexity during the period
shortly after the Big Bang than it does at present. The scientific subject
matter of atomic physics, chemistry, biology and the social sciences has been
created since that time. An explanation is proposed for the existence of this
subject matter as due to the evolution of constraints in the form of
adaptations imposed on Maximum Entropy. It is argued these adaptations were
discovered and instantiated through the operations of a succession of Darwinian
processes.