Quasar accretion disks are believed to form stars by self-gravity. Low
Luminosity Active Galactic Nuclei (LLAGN) are much dimmer galactic centers, and
are often believed to be quasars that ran out of gaseous fuel. LLAGN accretion
disks should thus co-exist with thousands to millions of stars or proto-stars
left from the previous stronger accretion activity. In principle, these stars
may produce several important effects: (i) contribute to the optical/UV spectra
of some LLAGN; (ii) reprocessing of the stellar radiation in the dusty disks
could dominate the LLAGN infra-red spectra; (iii) deplete the (accretion) gas
disk much faster than it can accrete onto the supper-massive black hole (SMBH);
(iv) stars, individually or in groups, may slow down and modulate the accretion
flow significantly due to their inertia. In this way they may produce the LLAGN
cut-off disks; (v) alternatively, frequent enough stellar collisions and
resulting stellar disruptions could keep the inner disk empty. Here we explore
these ideas. We find that, despite ``low'' luminosities of LLAGN,
unrealistically high stellar densities are required to make a sizable radiative
contribution to the (HST) optical/UV spectra of these galactic nuclei. Stellar
contribution to the infrared spectrum is more likely. Further, if LLAGN are in
a quasi steady-state for as long as 10^7 years or more, too high stellar
densities would again be required to significantly affect the dynamics of
accretion flow. However, if LLAGN are ``short''-lived phenomena, e.g. t < 10^5
years, quiescent states of quiescence-outburst cycles, then embedded stars may
be much more important through the mass effects (iii) -- (v). With observations
of LLAGN becoming progressively better, it will be more and more difficult to
neglect the presence of close stars in and around nuclear accretion disks.