Ongoing searches for supernovae (SNe) at cosmological distances have recently
started to provide large numbers of events with measured redshifts and apparent
brightnesses. Compared to quasars or galaxies, Type Ia SNe represent a
population of sources with well-known intrinsic properties, and could be used
to detect gravitational lensing even in the absence of multiple or highly
distorted images. We investigate the lensing effect of background SNe due to
mass condensations in three popular cold dark matter cosmologies (LambdaCDM,
OCDM, SCDM), and compute lensing frequencies, rates of SN explosions, and
distributions of arrival time differences and image separations. If dark halos
approximate singular isothermal spheres on galaxy scales and NFW profiles on
group/cluster scales, and are distributed in mass according to the
Press-Schechter theory, then about one every 12 SNe at z~1 will be magnified by
Delta m>0.1 mag (SCDM). The detection rate of SN Ia with magnification Delta
m>0.3 is estimated to be of order a few events per year per square degree at
maximum B-light and I<25, a hundred time smaller than the total rate expected
at these magnitude levels. In the field, events magnified by more than 0.75 mag
are 7 times less frequent: about one fifth of them gives rise to observable
multiple images. Because of the flat K-correction and wide luminosity function,
Type II SNe dominate the number counts at I>25 and have the largest fraction of
lensed objects. The optimal survey sensitivity for Type Ia's magnified by Delta
m>0.75 mag is I=23. Magnification bias increases their incidence by a factor of
50 in samples with I<22, dropping to a factor of 3.5 at 24 mag. At faint
magnitudes the enhancement is larger for SN II.