The nature of SN 1961V has been uncertain. Its peculiar optical light curve
and slow expansion velocity are similar to those of super-outbursts of luminous
blue variables (LBVs), but its nonthermal radio spectral index and declining
radio luminosity are consistent with decades-old supernovae (SNe). We have
obtained Hubble Space Telescope STIS images and spectra of the stars in the
vicinity of SN 1961V, and find Object 7 identified by Filippenko et al. to be
the closest to the optical and radio positions of SN 1961V. Object 7 is the
only point source detected in our STIS spectra and only its H-alpha emission is
detected; it cannot be the SN or its remnant because of the absence of
forbidden lines. While the H-alpha line profile of Object 7 is remarkably
similar to that of eta Car, the blue color (similar to an A2Ib supergiant) and
lack of appreciable variability are unlike known post-outburst LBVs. We have
also obtained Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) observations of SN 1961V at 18
cm. The non-detection of SN 1961V places a lower limit on the size of the
radio-emitting region, 7.6 mas or 0.34 pc, which implies an average expansion
velocity in excess of 4,400 km/s, much higher than the optical expansion
velocity measured in 1961. We conclude the following: (1) A SN occurred in the
vicinity of SN 1961V a few decades ago. (2) If the SN 1961V light maximum
originates from a giant eruption of a massive star, Object 7 is the most
probable candidate for the survivor, but its blue color and lack of significant
variability are different from a post-outburst eta Car. (3) The radio SN and
Object 7 could be physically associated with each other through a binary
system. (4) Object 7 needs to be monitored to determine its nature and
relationship to SN 1961V.