The study of turbulent flows calls for measurements with high resolution both
in space and in time. We propose a new approach to reconstruct
High-Temporal-High-Spatial resolution velocity fields by combining two sources
of information that are well-resolved either in space or in time, the
Low-Temporal-High-Spatial (LTHS) and the High-Temporal-Low-Spatial (HTLS)
resolution measurements. In the framework of co-conception between sensing and
data post-processing, this work extensively investigates a Bayesian
reconstruction approach using a simulated database. A Bayesian fusion model is
developed to solve the inverse problem of data reconstruction. The model uses a
Maximum A Posteriori estimate, which yields the most probable field knowing the
measurements. The DNS of a wall-bounded turbulent flow at moderate Reynolds
number is used to validate and assess the performances of the present approach.
Low resolution measurements are subsampled in time and space from the fully
resolved data. Reconstructed velocities are compared to the reference DNS to
estimate the reconstruction errors. The model is compared to other conventional
methods such as Linear Stochastic Estimation and cubic spline interpolation.
Results show the superior accuracy of the proposed method in all
configurations. Further investigations of model performances on various range
of scales demonstrate its robustness. Numerical experiments also permit to
estimate the expected maximum information level corresponding to limitations of
experimental instruments.