It is still being debated whether the well-known metallicity - giant planet
correlation for dwarf stars is also valid for giant stars. For this reason,
having precise metallicities is very important. Different methods can provide
different results that lead to discrepancies in the analysis of planet hosts.
To study the impact of different analyses on the metallicity scale for evolved
stars, we compare different iron line lists to use in the atmospheric parameter
derivation of evolved stars. Therefore, we use a sample of 71 evolved stars
with planets. With these new homogeneous parameters, we revisit the metallicity
- giant planet connection for evolved stars. A spectroscopic analysis based on
Kurucz models in local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE) was performed through
the MOOG code to derive the atmospheric parameters. Two different iron line
list sets were used, one built for cool FGK stars in general, and the other for
giant FGK stars. Masses were calculated through isochrone fitting, using the
Padova models. Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests (K-S tests) were then performed on the
metallicity distributions of various different samples of evolved stars and red
giants. All parameters compare well using a line list set, designed
specifically for cool and solar-like stars to provide more accurate
temperatures. All parameters derived with this line list set are preferred and
are thus adopted for future analysis. We find that evolved planet hosts are
more metal-poor than dwarf stars with giant planets. However, a bias in giant
stellar samples that are searched for planets is present. Because of a colour
cut-off, metal-rich low-gravity stars are left out of the samples, making it
hard to compare dwarf stars with giant stars. Furthermore, no metallicity
enhancement is found for red giants with planets ($\log g < 3.0$\,dex) with
respect to red giants without planets.