We have studied the impact of dust feedback on the survival and structure of
vortices in protoplanetary discs using 2-D shearing box simulations with
Lagrangian dust particles. We consider dust with a variety of sizes (stopping
time $t_s = 10^{-2}\Omega^{-1} - 10^{2}\Omega^{-1}$, from fully coupled with
the gas to the decoupling limit. We find that a vortex is destroyed by dust
feedback when the total dust-to-gas mass ratio within the vortex is larger than
30-50%, independent of the dust size. The dust distribution can still be
asymmetric in some cases after the vortex has been destroyed. With smaller
amounts of dust, a vortex can survive for at least 100 orbits, and the maximum
dust surface density within the vortex can be more than 100 times larger than
the gas surface density, potentially facilitating planetesimal formation. On
the other hand, in these stable vortices, small ($t_s < \Omega^{-1}$) and large
($t_s > \Omega^{-1}$) dust grains concentrate differently and affect the gas
dynamics in different ways. The distribution of large dust is more elongated
than that of small dust. Large dust ($t_s > \Omega^{-1}$) concentrates in the
centre of the vortex and feedback leads to turn-over in vorticity towards the
centre, forming a quiescent region within an anticyclonic vortex. Such a
turn-over is absent if the vortex is loaded with small grains. We demonstrate
that, in protoplanetary discs where both large and small dust grains are
present and under the right condition, the concentration of large dust towards
the vortex centre can lead to a quiescent centre, repelling the small dust and
forming a small dust ring around the vortex centre. Such anticorrelations
between small and large dust within vortices may explain the discrepancy
between ALMA and near-IR scattered light observations in the asymmetric region
of transitional discs.