In this paper, throughput achieved in cognitive radio channels with finite
blocklength codes under buffer limitations is studied. Cognitive users first
determine the activity of the primary users' through channel sensing and then
initiate data transmission at a power level that depends on the channel sensing
decisions. It is assumed that finite blocklength codes are employed in the data
transmission phase. Hence, errors can occur in reception and retransmissions
can be required. Primary users' activities are modeled as a two-state Markov
chain and an eight-state Markov chain is constructed in order to model the
cognitive radio channel. Channel state information (CSI) is assumed to be
perfectly known by either the secondary receiver only or both the secondary
transmitter and receiver. In the absence of CSI at the transmitter, fixed-rate
transmission is performed whereas under perfect CSI knowledge, for a given
target error probability, the transmitter varies the rate according to the
channel conditions. Under these assumptions, throughput in the presence of
buffer constraints is determined by characterizing the maximum constant arrival
rates that can be supported by the cognitive radio channel while satisfying
certain limits on buffer violation probabilities. Tradeoffs between throughput,
buffer constraints, coding blocklength, and sensing duration for both
fixed-rate and variable-rate transmissions are analyzed numerically. The
relations between average error probability, sensing threshold and sensing
duration are studied in the case of variable-rate transmissions.