Gross-Neveu type models with a finite number of fermion flavours are studied
on a two-dimensional Euclidean space-time lattice. The models are
asymptotically free and are invariant under a chiral symmetry. These
similarities to QCD make them perfect benchmark systems for fermion actions
used in large scale lattice QCD computations. The Schroedinger functional for
the Gross-Neveu models is defined for both, Wilson and Ginsparg-Wilson
fermions, and shown to be renormalisable in 1-loop lattice perturbation theory.
In two dimensions four fermion interactions of the Gross-Neveu models have
dimensionless coupling constants. The symmetry properties of the four fermion
interaction terms and the relations among them are discussed. For Wilson
fermions chiral symmetry is explicitly broken and additional terms must be
included in the action. Chiral symmetry is restored up to cut-off effects by
tuning the bare mass and one of the couplings. The critical mass and the
symmetry restoring coupling are computed to second order in lattice
perturbation theory. This result is used in the 1-loop computation of the
renormalised couplings and the associated beta-functions. The renormalised
couplings are defined in terms of suitable boundary-to-boundary correlation
functions. In the computation the known first order coefficients of the
beta-functions are reproduced. One of the couplings is found to have a
vanishing beta-function. The calculation is repeated for the recently proposed
Schroedinger functional with exact chiral symmetry, i.e. Ginsparg-Wilson
fermions. The renormalisation pattern is found to be the same as in the Wilson
case. Using the regularisation dependent finite part of the renormalised
couplings, the ratio of the Lambda-parameters is computed.