Using a sample of 63 AGNs extracted from the $Einstein$ Extended Medium
Sensitivity Survey (EMSS), we study the X-ray spectral properties of X-ray
selected AGN in the 0.1$-$2.4 keV ROSAT band. These objects are all the EMSS
AGN detected with more than 300 net counts in ROSAT PSPC images available from
the public archive (as of May 31, 1995). A Maximum-Likelihood analysis is used
to find the mean power-law spectral index $<\alpha_p>$ and the intrinsic
dispersion $\sigma_p$. We find $<\alpha_p>$=1.42 with $\sigma_p$=0.44. This
value is significantly steeper ($\Delta \alpha \sim$0.4) than the mean
$Einstein$/IPC spectral index obtained applying the ML analysis on the whole
sample of EMSS AGN. This result shows that the soft excess already noted in
optically selected AGN is present also in X-ray selected AGN. The relatively
high value obtained for the intrinsic dispersion confirms that in the soft band
AGN are characterized by a variety of spectral indices and the increase with
respect to results obtained from the analysis of Einstein data ($\Delta
\sigma_p \sim$0.16) suggests a further broadening of the spectral index
distribution as one moves to softer energies. A comparison between the mean
spectral index of Radio-quiet and Radio-loud subsamples shows that the mean
index of the RL sample is flatter than that of RQ, both in the IPC ($\Delta
\alpha \sim$0.3) and in the PSPC ($\Delta \alpha \sim$0.4) data. This suggests
that the additional X-ray component in RL AGN dominates the X-ray emission of
RL AGN over almost two decades of energy ($\sim$0.1$-$10 keV).