We find an operational interpretation for the 4-tangle as a type of residual
entanglement, somewhat similar to the interpretation of the 3-tangle. Using
this remarkable interpretation, we are able to find the class of maximally
entangled four-qubits states which is characterized by four real parameters.
The states in the class are maximally entangled in the sense that their average
bipartite entanglement with respect to all possible bi-partite cuts is maximal.
We show that while all the states in the class maximize the average tangle,
there are only few states in the class that maximize the average Tsillas or
Renyi $\alpha$-entropy of entanglement. Quite remarkably, we find that up to
local unitaries, there exists two unique states, one maximizing the average
$\alpha$-Tsallis entropy of entanglement for all $\alpha\geq 2$, while the
other maximizing it for all $0<\alpha\leq 2$ (including the von-Neumann case of
$\alpha=1$). Furthermore, among the maximally entangled four qubits states,
there are only 3 maximally entangled states that have the property that for 2,
out of the 3 bipartite cuts consisting of 2-qubits verses 2-qubits, the
entanglement is 2 ebits and for the remaining bipartite cut the entanglement
between the two groups of two qubits is 1ebit. The unique 3 maximally entangled
states are the 3 cluster states that are related by a swap operator. We also
show that the cluster states are the only states (up to local unitaries) that
maximize the average $\alpha$-Renyi entropy of entanglement for all $\alpha\geq
2$.