We follow the changes in the structure of the accretion disk of the dwarf
nova V2051 Oph along two separate outbursts in order to investigate the causes
of its recurrent outbursts. We apply eclipse mapping techniques to a set of
light curves covering a normal (July 2000) and a low-amplitude (August 2002)
outburst to derive maps of the disk surface brightness distribution at
different phases along the outburst cycles. The sequence of eclipse maps of the
2000 July outburst reveal that the disk shrinks at outburst onset while an
uneclipsed component of 13 per cent of the total light develops. The derived
radial intensity distributions suggest the presence of an outward-moving
heating wave during rise and of an inward-moving cooling wave during decline.
The inferred speed of the outward-moving heating wave is ~ 1.6 km/s, while the
speed of the cooling wave is a fraction of that. A comparison of the measured
cooling wave velocity on consecutive nights indicates that the cooling wave
accelerates as it travels towards disk center, in contradiction with the
prediction of the disk instability model. From the inferred speed of the
heating wave we derive a viscosity parameter alpha_{hot} ~ 0.13, comparable to
the measured viscosity parameter in quiescence. The 2002 August outburst had
lower amplitude (\Delta B ~ 0.8 mag) and the disk at outburst maximum was
smaller than on 2000 July. For an assumed distance of 92 pc, we find that along
both outbursts the disk brightness temperatures remain below the minimum
expected according to the disk instability model. The results suggest that the
outbursts of V2051 Oph are caused by bursts of increased mass transfer from the
mass-donor star.