The Einstein-Gauss-Bonnet equations projected from the bulk to brane lead to
a complicated Friedmann equation which simplifies to $H^2 \sim \rho^q$ in the
asymptotic regimes. The Randall-Sundrum (RS) scenario corresponds to $q=2$
whereas $q=2/3$ $&$ $q=1$ give rise to high energy Gauss-Bonnet (GB) regime and
the standard GR respectively. Amazingly, while evolving from RS regime to high
energy GB limit, one passes through a GR like region which has important
implications for brane world inflation. For tachyon GB inflation with
potentials $V(\phi) \sim \phi^p$ investigated in this paper, the scalar to
tensor ratio of perturbations $R$ is maximum around the RS region and is
generally suppressed in the high energy regime for the positive values of $p$.
The ratio is very low for $p>0$ at all energy scales relative to GB inflation
with ordinary scalar field. The models based upon tachyon inflation with
polynomial type of potentials with generic positive values of $p$ turn out to
be in the $1 \sigma$ observational contour bound at all energy scales varying
from GR to high energy GB limit. The spectral index $n_S$ improves for the
lower values of $p$ and approaches its scale invariant limit for $p=-2$ in the
high energy GB regime. The ratio $R$ also remains small for large negative
values of $p$, however, difference arises for models close to scale invariance
limit. In this case, the tensor to scale ratio is large in the GB regime
whereas it is suppressed in the intermediate region between RS and GB. Within
the frame work of patch cosmologies governed by $H^2 \sim \rho^q$, the behavior
of ordinary scalar field near cosmological singularity and the nature of
scaling solutions are distinguished for the values of $q < 1$ and $q > 1$.