We perform a systematic study of hybrid star configurations using several
parametrizations of a relativistic mean-field hadronic EoS and the NJL model
for three-flavor quark matter. For the hadronic phase we use the stiff GM1 and
TM1 parametrizations, as well as the very stiff NL3 model. In the NJL
Lagrangian we include scalar, vector and 't Hooft interactions. The vector
coupling constant $g_v$ is treated as a free parameter. We also consider that
there is a split between the deconfinement and the chiral phase transitions
which is controlled by changing the conventional value of the vacuum pressure
$- \Omega_0$ in the NJL thermodynamic potential by $- (\Omega_0 + \delta
\Omega_0)$, being $\delta \Omega_0$ a free parameter. We find that, as we
increase the value of $\delta \Omega_0$, hybrid stars have a larger maximum
mass but are less stable, i.e. hybrid configurations are stable within a
smaller range of central densities. For large enough $\delta \Omega_0$, stable
hybrid configurations are not possible at all. The effect of increasing the
coupling constant $g_v$ is very similar. We show that stable hybrid
configurations with a maximum mass larger than the observed mass of the pulsar
PSR J1614-2230 are possible for a large region of the parameter space of $g_v$
and $\delta \Omega_0$ provided the hadronic equation of state contains nucleons
only. When the baryon octet is included in the hadronic phase, only a very
small region of the parameter space allows to explain the mass of PSR
J1614-2230. We compare our results with previous calculations of hybrid stars
within the NJL model. We show that it is possible to obtain stable hybrid
configurations also in the case $\delta \Omega_0=0$ that corresponds to the
conventional NJL model for which the pressure and density vanish at zero
temperature and chemical potential.