Using Monte Carlo and analytic techniques, we study a minimal dynamic network
involving two populations of nodes, characterized by different preferred
degrees. Reminiscent of introverts and extroverts in a population, one set of
nodes, labeled \textit{introverts} ($I$), prefers fewer contacts (a lower
degree) than the other, labeled \textit{extroverts} ($E$). As a starting point,
we consider an \textit{extreme} case, in which an $I$ simply cuts one of its
links at random when chosen for updating, while an $E$ adds a link to a random
unconnected individual (node). The model has only two control parameters,
namely, the number of nodes in each group, $N_{I}$ and $N_{E}$). In the steady
state, only the number of crosslinks between the two groups fluctuates, with
remarkable properties: Its average ($X$) remains very close to 0 for all
$N_{I}>N_{E}$ or near its maximum ($\mathcal{N}\equiv N_{I}N_{E}$) if
$N_{I}<N_{E}$. At the transition ($N_{I}=N_{E}$), the fraction $X/\mathcal{N}$
wanders across a substantial part of $[0,1]$, much like a pure random walk.
Mapping this system to an Ising model with spin-flip dynamics and unusual
long-range interactions, we note that such fluctuations are far greater than
those displayed in either first or second order transitions of the latter.
Thus, we refer to the case here as an `extraordinary transition.' Thanks to the
restoration of detailed balance and the existence of a `Hamiltonian,' several
qualitative aspects of these remarkable phenomena can be understood
analytically.