(abridged) Recent studies, using OGLE data for LMC Cepheids in the optical,
strongly suggest that the period-luminosity (PL) relation for the Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC) Cepheids shows a break or non-linearity at a period of
10 days. In this paper we apply statistical tests, the chi-square test and the
F-test, to the Cepheid data from the MACHO project to test for a non-linearity
of the V- and R-band PL relations at 10 days, and extend these tests to the
near infrared (JHK-band) PL relations with 2MASS data. We correct the
extinction for these data by applying an extinction map towards the LMC. The
statistical test we use, the F-test, is able to take account of small numbers
of data points and the nature of that data on either side of the period cut at
10 days. With our data, the results we obtained imply that the VRJH-band PL
relations are non-linear around a period of 10 days, while the K-band PL
relation is (marginally) consistent with a single-line regression. The choice
of a period of 10 days, around which this non-linearity occurs, is consistent
with the results obtained when this "break" period is estimated from the data.
Long period Cepheids are supplemented from the literature to increase our
sample size. The photometry of these long period Cepheids is compared with our
data and no trend with period is found. Our main results remain unchanged when
we supplement our dataset with these long period Cepheids. By examining our
data at maximum light, we also suggest arguments why errors in reddening are
unlikely to be responsible for our results. The non-linearity of the mean
V-band PL relation as seen in both of the OGLE and MACHO data, using different
extinction maps, suggests that this non-linearity is real.