We investigate the production of ultra-high-energy cosmic ray (UHECR) in
relativistic jets from low-luminosity active galactic nuclei (LLAGN). We start
by proposing a model for the UHECR contribution from the black holes (BHs) in
LLAGN, which present a jet power $P_{\mathrm{j}} \leqslant 10^{46}$ erg
s$^{-1}$. This is in contrast to the opinion that only high-luminosity AGN can
accelerate particles to energies $ \geqslant 50$ EeV. We rewrite the equations
which describe the synchrotron self-absorbed emission of a non-thermal particle
distribution to obtain the observed radio flux density from sources with a
flat-spectrum core and its relationship to the jet power. We find that the
UHECR flux is dependent on the {\it observed radio flux density, the distance
to the AGN, and the BH mass}, where the particle acceleration regions can be
sustained by the magnetic energy extraction from the BH at the center of the
AGN. We use a complete sample of 29 radio sources with a total flux density at
5 GHz greater than 0.5 Jy to make predictions for the maximum particle energy,
luminosity, and flux of the UHECRs from nearby AGN. These predictions are then
used in a semi-analytical code developed in Mathematica (SAM code) as inputs
for the Monte-Carlo simulations to obtain the distribution of the arrival
direction at the Earth and the energy spectrum of the UHECRs, taking into
account their deflection in the intergalactic magnetic fields. For comparison,
we also use the CRPropa code with the same initial conditions as for the SAM
code. Importantly, to calculate the energy spectrum we also include the
weighting of the UHECR flux per each UHECR source. Next, we compare the energy
spectrum of the UHECRs with that obtained by the Pierre Auger Observatory.