In the theory of singular integral operators significant effort is often
required to rigorously define such an operator. This is due to the fact that
the kernels of such operators are not locally integrable on the diagonal, so
the integral formally defining the operator or its bilinear form is not well
defined (the integrand is not in L^1) even for nice functions. However, since
the kernel only has singularities on the diagonal, the bilinear form is well
defined say for bounded compactly supported functions with separated supports.
  One of the standard ways to interpret the boundedness of a singular integral
operators is to consider regularized kernels, where the cut-off function is
zero in a neighborhood of the origin, so the corresponding regularized
operators with kernel are well defined (at least on a dense set). Then one can
ask about uniform boundedness of the regularized operators. For the standard
regularizations one usually considers truncated operators.
  The main result of the paper is that for a wide class of singular integral
operators (including the classical Calderon-Zygmund operators in
non-homogeneous two weight settings), the L^p boundedness of the bilinear form
on the compactly supported functions with separated supports (the so-called
restricted L^p boundedness) implies the uniform L^p-boundedness of regularized
operators for any reasonable choice of a smooth cut-off of the kernel. If the
kernel satisfies some additional assumptions (which are satisfied for classical
singular integral operators like Hilbert Transform, Cauchy Transform,
Ahlfors--Beurling Transform, Generalized Riesz Transforms), then the restricted
L^p boundedness also implies the uniform L^p boundedness of the classical
truncated operators.