We address the origin of the incipient magnetism in TiBe$_2$ through precise
first principles calculations, which overestimate the ferromagnetic tendency
and therefore require correction to account for spin fluctuations. TiBe$_2$ has
sharp fine structure in its electronic density of states, with a van Hove
singularity only 3 meV above the Fermi level. Similarly to the isovalent weak
ferromagnet ZrZn$_2$, it is flat bands along the K-W-U lines of hexagonal face
of the fcc Brillouin zone make the system prone to magnetism, and more so if
electrons are added. We find that the Moriya $B$ coefficient (multiplying
$\frac{\omega}{q}$ in the fluctuation susceptibility $\Delta \chi(q,\omega)$)
is divergent when the velocity vanishes at a point on the Fermi surface, which
is very close (3 meV) to occurring in TiBe$_2$. In exploring how the FM
instability (the $q$=0 Stoner enhancement is $S\approx 60$) might be suppressed
by fluctuations in TiBe$_2$, we calculate that the Moriya A coefficient (of
$q^2$) is negative, so $q$=0 is not the primary instability. Explicit
calculation of $\chi_o(q)$ shows that its maximum occurs at the X point
$(1,0,0)\frac{2\pi}{a}$; TiBe$_2$ is thus an incipient {\it anti}ferromagnet
rather than ferromagnet as has been supposed. We further show that simple
temperature smearing of the peak accounts for most of the temperature
dependence of the susceptibility, which previously had been attributed to local
moments (via a Curie-Weiss fit), and that energy dependence of the density of
states also strongly affects the magnetic field variation of $\chi$.