We report high angular-resolution (~1") CO J=3--2 interferometric mapping,
using the Submillimeter Array (SMA), of IRAS22036+5306 (I22036), a bipolar
pre-planetary nebula (PPN) with knotty jets discovered in our HST SNAPshot
survey of young PPNs. In addition, we have obtained supporting lower-resolution
(~10") CO and 13CO J=1-0 observations with the Owens Valley Radio Observatory
(OVRO) interferometer, as well as optical long-slit echelle spectra at the
Palomar Observatory. The CO J=3-2 observations show the presence of a very fast
(~220 km/s), highly collimated, massive (0.03 Msun) bipolar outflow with a very
large scalar momentum (about 10^{39} g cm s^{-1}), and the characteristic
spatio-kinematic structure of bow-shocks at the tips of this outflow. The
Halpha line shows an absorption feature blue-shifted from the systemic velocity
by ~100 km/s, which most likely arises in neutral interface material between
the fast outflow and the dense walls of the bipolar lobes at low latitudes. The
fast outflow in I22036, as in most PPNs, cannot be driven by radiation
pressure. We find an unresolved source of submillimeter (and millimeter-wave)
continuum emission in I22036, implying a very substantial mass (0.02-0.04 Msun)
of large (radius >~1 mm), cold (< ~50 K) dust grains associated with I22036's
toroidal waist. We also find that the 13C/12C ratio in I22036 is very high
(0.16), close to the maximum value achieved in equilibrium CNO-nucleosynthesis
(0.33). The combination of the high circumstellar mass (i.e., in the extended
dust shell and the torus) and the high 13C/12C ratio in I22036 provides strong
support for this object having evolved from a massive (>~4 Msun) progenitor in
which hot-bottom-burning has occurred.