(Abridged) We present theoretical models of stellar angular momentum
evolution from the Orion Nebula Cluster (ONC) to the Pleiades and the Hyades.
We demonstrate that observations of the Pleiades and Hyades place tight
constraints on the angular momentum loss rate from stellar winds. The observed
periods, masses and ages of ONC stars in the range 0.2--0.5 M$_\odot$, and the
loss properties inferred from the Pleiades and Hyades stars, are then used to
test the initial conditions for stellar evolution models. We use these models
to estimate the distribution of rotational velocities for the ONC stars at the
age of the Pleiades (120 Myr). The modeled ONC and observed Pleiades
distributions of rotation rates are not consistent if only stellar winds are
included. In order to reconcile the observed loss of angu lar momentum between
these two clusters, an extrinsic loss mechanism such as protostar-accretion
disk interaction is required. Our model, which evolves the ONC stars with a
mass dependent saturation threshold normalized such that $\omega_{crit} = 5.4
\omega_\odot$ at 0.5 \m, and which includes a distribution of disk lifetimes
that is uniform over the range 0--6 Myr, is consistent with the Pleiades. This
model for disk-locking lifetimes is also consistent with inferred disk
lifetimes from the percentage of stars with infrared excesses observed in young
clusters. Different models, using a variety of initial period distributions and
different maximum disk lifetimes, are also compared to the Pleiades. For
disk-locking models that use a uniform distribution of disk lifetimes over the
range 0 to $\tau_{max}$, the acceptable range of the maximum lifetime is $3.5 <
\tau_{max} < 8.5$ Myr.