We have used the InfraRed Array Camera (IRAC) onboard the Spitzer Space
telescope to search for low mass companions of the nearby debris disk star
epsilon Eridani. The star was observed in two epochs 39 days apart, with
different focal plane rotation to allow the subtraction of the instrumental
Point Spread Function, achieving a maximum sensitivity of 0.01 MJy/sr at 3.6
and 4.5 um, and 0.05 MJy/sr at 5.8 and 8.0 um. This sensitivity is not
sufficient to directly detect scattered or thermal radiation from the epsilon
Eridani debris disk. It is however sufficient to allow the detection of Jovian
planets with mass as low as 1 MJ in the IRAC 4.5 um band. In this band, we
detected over 460 sources within the 5.70 arcmin field of view of our images.
To test if any of these sources could be a low mass companion to epsilon
Eridani, we have compared their colors and magnitudes with models and
photometry of low mass objects. Of the sources detected in at least two IRAC
bands, none fall into the range of mid-IR color and luminosity expected for
cool, 1 Gyr substellar and planetary mass companions of epsilon Eridani, as
determined by both models and observations of field M, L and T dwarf. We
identify three new sources which have detections at 4.5 um only, the lower
limit placed on their [3.6]-[4.5] color consistent with models of planetary
mass objects. Their nature cannot be established with the currently available
data and a new observation at a later epoch will be needed to measure their
proper motion, in order to determine if they are physically associated to
epsilon Eridani.