We investigate the nature of the substantial population of high-z galaxies
with Js-Ks>2.3 discovered as part of our FIRES survey. This colour cut
efficiently isolates z>2 galaxies with red rest-frame optical colors ("Distant
Red Galaxies" or DRGs). We select objects in the 2.5'x2.5' HDF-South (HDF-S)
and 5'x5' field around the MS1054-03 cluster; the surface densities at Ks<21
are 1.6+-0.6 and 1.0+-0.2 arcmin^-2. We discuss the 34 DRGs at 2<z<3.5: 11 at
Ks<22.5 in HDF-S and 23 at Ks<21.7 in the MS1054-03 field. We analyze the SEDs
constructed from our deep near-infrared (NIR) and optical imaging from the ESO
VLT and HST. We develop diagnostics involving I-Js, Js-H, and H-Ks to argue
that the red NIR colors of DRGs cannot be attributed solely to extinction and
require for many an evolved stellar population with prominent Balmer/4000A
break. In the rest-frame, the optical colours of DRGs fall within the envelope
of normal nearby galaxies and the UV colours suggest a wide range in star
formation activity and/or extinction. This contrasts with the much bluer and
more uniform SEDs of Lyman break galaxies (LBGs). From evolutionary synthesis
models with constant star formation, solar metallicity, Salpeter IMF, and
Calzetti et al. extinction law, we derive for the HDF-S (MS1054-03 field) DRGs
median ages of 1.7(2.0) Gyr, A_V = 2.7(2.4) mag, stellar masses 0.8(1.6)x10^11
Msun, M/L_V = 1.2(2.3) Msun/LVsun, and SFR = 120(170) Msun/yr. Models assuming
declining SFRs with e-folding timescales of 10Myr-1Gyr generally imply younger
ages, lower A_V's and SFRs, but similar stellar masses within a factor of two.
Compared to LBGs at similar redshifts and rest-frame L_V's, DRGs are older,
more massive, and more obscured for any given star formation history.
[ABRIDGED]