Based on multiyear INTEGRAL observations of SS433, a composite IBIS/ISGRI
18-60 keV orbital light curve is constructed around zero precessional phase
$\psi_{pr}= 0$. It shows a peculiar shape characterized by a significant excess
near the orbital phase $\phi_{orb}= 0.25$, which is not seen in the softer 2-10
keV energy band. Such a shape is likely to be due to a complex asymmetric
structure of the funnel in a supercritical accretion disk in SS433. The orbital
light curve at 40-60 keV demonstrates two almost equal bumps at phases $\sim
0.25$ and $\sim 0.75$, most likely due to nutation effects of the accretion
disk. The change of the off-eclipse 18-60 keV X-ray flux with the precessional
phase shows a double-wave form with strong primary maximum at $\psi_{pr}= 0$
and weak but significant secondary maximum at $\psi_{pr}= 0.6$. A weak
variability of the 18-60 keV flux in the middle of the orbital eclipse
correlated with the disk precessional phase is also observed. The joint
analysis of the broadband (18-60 keV) orbital and precessional light curves
obtained by INTEGRAL confirms the presence of a hot extended corona in the
central parts of the supercritical accretion disk and constrain the binary mass
ratio in SS433 in the range $0.5\gtrsim q\gtrsim 0.3$, confirming the black
hole nature of the compact object. Orbital and precessional light curves in the
hardest X-ray band 40-60 keV, which is free from emission from thermal X-ray
jets, are also best fitted by the same geometrical model with hot extended
corona at $q\sim 0.3$, stressing the conclusions of the modeling of the
broad-band X-ray orbital and precessional light curves.