A new problem formulation is presented for the Gaussian interference channels
(GIFC) with two pairs of users, which are distinguished as primary users and
secondary users, respectively. The primary users employ a pair of encoder and
decoder that were originally designed to satisfy a given error performance
requirement under the assumption that no interference exists from other users.
In the scenario when the secondary users attempt to access the same medium, we
are interested in the maximum transmission rate (defined as {\em accessible
capacity}) at which secondary users can communicate reliably without affecting
the error performance requirement by the primary users under the constraint
that the primary encoder (not the decoder) is kept unchanged. By modeling the
primary encoder as a generalized trellis code (GTC), we are then able to treat
the secondary link and the cross link from the secondary transmitter to the
primary receiver as finite state channels (FSCs). Based on this, upper and
lower bounds on the accessible capacity are derived. The impact of the error
performance requirement by the primary users on the accessible capacity is
analyzed by using the concept of interference margin. In the case of
non-trivial interference margin, the secondary message is split into common and
private parts and then encoded by superposition coding, which delivers a lower
bound on the accessible capacity. For some special cases, these bounds can be
computed numerically by using the BCJR algorithm. Numerical results are also
provided to gain insight into the impacts of the GTC and the error performance
requirement on the accessible capacity.