It is expected that at weak to intermediate coupling, d-wave
superconductivity can be induced by antiferromagnetic fluctuations. However,
one needs to clarify the role of Fermi surface topology, density of states,
pseudogap, and wave vector of the magnetic fluctuations on the nature and
strength of the induced d-wave state. To this end, we study the generalized
phase diagram of the two-dimensional half-filled Hubbard model as a function of
interaction strength $U/t$, frustration induced by second-order hopping
$t^{\prime}/t$, and temperature $T/t$. In experiment, $U/t$ and $t^{\prime}/t$
can be controlled by pressure. We use the two-particle self-consistent approach
(TPSC), valid from weak to intermediate coupling. We first calculate as a
function of $t^{\prime}/t$ and $U/t$ the temperature and wave vector at which
the spin response function begins to grow exponentially.D-wave
superconductivity in a half-filled band can be induced by such magnetic
fluctuations at weak to intermediate coupling, but only if they are near
commensurate wave vectors and not too close to perfect nesting conditions where
the pseudogap becomes detrimental to superconductivity. For given $U/t$ there
is thus an optimal value of frustration $t^{\prime}/t$ where the
superconducting $T_c$ is maximum. The non-interacting density of states plays
little role. The symmetry d$_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$ vs d$_{xy}$ of the superconducting
order parameter depends on the wave vector of the underlying magnetic
fluctuations in a way that can be understood qualitatively from simple
arguments.