This paper is devoted to the study of mean-field limit for systems of
indistinguables particles undergoing collision processes. As formulated by Kac
\cite{Kac1956} this limit is based on the {\em chaos propagation}, and we (1)
prove and quantify this property for Boltzmann collision processes with
unbounded collision rates (hard spheres or long-range interactions), (2) prove
and quantify this property \emph{uniformly in time}. This yields the first
chaos propagation result for the spatially homogeneous Boltzmann equation for
true (without cut-off) Maxwell molecules whose "Master equation" shares
similarities with the one of a L\'evy process and the first {\em quantitative}
chaos propagation result for the spatially homogeneous Boltzmann equation for
hard spheres (improvement of the %non-contructive convergence result of
Sznitman \cite{S1}). Moreover our chaos propagation results are the first
uniform in time ones for Boltzmann collision processes (to our knowledge),
which partly answers the important question raised by Kac of relating the
long-time behavior of a particle system with the one of its mean-field limit,
and we provide as a surprising application a new proof of the well-known result
of gaussian limit of rescaled marginals of uniform measure on the
$N$-dimensional sphere as $N$ goes to infinity (more applications will be
provided in a forthcoming work). Our results are based on a new method which
reduces the question of chaos propagation to the one of proving a purely
functional estimate on some generator operators ({\em consistency estimate})
together with fine stability estimates on the flow of the limiting non-linear
equation ({\em stability estimates}).