The problem of DNA$-$DNA interaction mediated by divalent counterions is
studied using a generalized Grand-canonical Monte-Carlo simulation for a system
of two salts. The effect of the divalent counterion size on the condensation
behavior of the DNA bundle is investigated. Experimentally, it is known that
multivalent counterions has strong effect on the DNA condensation phenomenon.
While tri- and tetra-valent counterions are shown to easily condense free DNA
molecules in solution into torroidal bundles, the situation with divalent
counterions are not as clear cut. Some divalent counterions like Mg$^{+2}$ are
not able to condense free DNA molecules in solution, while some like Mn$^{+2}$
can condense them into disorder bundles. In restricted environment such as in
two dimensional system or inside viral capsid, Mg$^{+2}$ can have strong effect
and able to condense them, but the condensation varies qualitatively with
different system, different coions. It has been suggested that divalent
counterions can induce attraction between DNA molecules but the strength of the
attraction is not strong enough to condense free DNA in solution. However, if
the configuration entropy of DNA is restricted, these attractions are enough to
cause appreciable effects. The variations among different divalent salts might
be due to the hydration effect of the divalent counterions. In this paper, we
try to understand this variation using a very simple parameters, the size of
the divalent counterions. We investigate how divalent counterions with
different sizes can leads to varying qualitative behavior of DNA condensation
in restricted environments.