Two-dimensional simulations of strongly anisotropic supernova explosions of a
nonrotating 15 solar mass blue supergiant progenitor are presented, which
follow the hydrodynamic evolution from times shortly after shock formation
until hours later. It is shown that explosions which around the time of shock
revival are dominated by low-order unstable modes (i.e. by a superposition of
the l=2 and l=1 modes, in which the former is strongest), are consistent with
all major observational features of SN 1987A, in contrast to models which show
high-order mode perturbations only and were published in earlier work. Among
other items, the low-mode models exhibit final iron-group velocities of up to
3300 km/s, strong mixing at the He/H composition interface, with hydrogen being
mixed downward in velocity space to only 500 km/s, and a final prolate
anisotropy of the ejecta with a major to minor axis ratio of about 1.6. The
success of low-mode explosions with an energy of about 2x10**51 erg to
reproduce these observed features is based on two effects: the (by 40%) larger
initial maximum velocities of metal-rich clumps compared to our high-mode
models, and the initial global deformation of the shock. The latter triggers
the growth of a strong Richtmyer-Meshkov instability at the He/H interface that
results in a global anisotropy of the inner ejecta at late times (i.e. t >
10000 s), although the shock itself has long become spherical by then. The
simulations suggest a coherent picture, which explains the observational data
of SN 1987A within the framework of the neutrino-driven explosion mechanism
using a minimal set of assumptions. It is therefore argued that other
paradigms, which are based on (more) controversial physics, may not be required
to explain this event. (abbreviated)