Strongly-magnetized, rapidly-rotating neutron stars are contenders for the
central engines of both long-duration gamma-ray bursts (LGRBs) and
hydrogen-poor super-luminous supernovae (SLSNe-I). Models for typical (~minute
long) LGRBs invoke magnetars with high dipole magnetic fields (Bd > 1e15 G) and
short spin-down times, while models for SLSNe-I invoke neutron stars with
weaker fields and longer spin-down times of weeks. Here we identify a
transition region in the space of Bd and birth period for which a magnetar can
power both a long GRB and a luminous SN. In particular, we show that a 2 ms
period magnetar with a spin-down time of ~1e4 s can explain the observations of
both the ultra-long GRB 111209 and its associated luminous SN2011kl. For
magnetars with longer spin down times, we predict even longer duration (~1e6 s)
GRBs and brighter supernovae, a correlation that extends to Swift J2058+05
(commonly interpreted as a tidal disruption event). We further show that
previous estimates of the maximum rotational energy of a proto-magnetar were
too conservative and energies up to Emax ~1-2e53 erg are possible. The magnetar
model can therefore comfortably accommodate the extreme energy requirements
recently posed by the most luminous supernova ASASSN-15lh. The high ionization
flux from a pulsar wind nebula powering ASASSN-15lh may lead to an "ionization
break-out" X-ray burst over the coming months, which would be accompanied by an
abrupt change in the optical spectrum. We conclude by briefly contrasting
millisecond magnetar and black hole models for SLSNe and ultra-long GRBs.