Gd3Ga5O12, (GGG), has an extraordinary magnetic phase diagram, where no long
range order is found down to 25 mK despite \Theta_CW \approx 2 K. However, long
range order is induced by an applied field of around 1 T. Motivated by recent
theoretical developments and the experimental results for a closely related
hyperkagome system, we have performed neutron diffraction measurements on a
single crystal sample of GGG in an applied magnetic field. The measurements
reveal that the H-T phase diagram of GGG is much more complicated than
previously assumed. The application of an external field at low T results in an
intensity change for most of the magnetic peaks which can be divided into three
distinct sets: ferromagnetic, commensurate antiferromagnetic, and
incommensurate antiferromagnetic. The ferromagnetic peaks (e.g. (112), (440)
and (220)) have intensities that increase with the field and saturate at high
field. The antiferromagnetic reflections have intensities that grow in low
fields, reach a maximum at an intermediate field (apart from the (002) peak
which shows two local maxima) and then decrease and disappear above 2 T. These
AFM peaks appear, disappear and reach maxima in different fields. We conclude
that the competition between magnetic interactions and alternative ground
states prevents GGG from ordering in zero field. It is, however, on the verge
of ordering and an applied magnetic field can be used to crystallise ordered
components. The range of ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic propagation
vectors found reflects the complex frustration in GGG.