The study of relativistic particle acceleration is a major topic of
high-energy astrophysics. It is well known that massive black holes in active
galaxies can release a substantial fraction of their accretion power into
energetic particles, producing gamma-rays and relativistic jets. Galactic
microquasars (hosting a compact star of 1-10 solar masses which accretes matter
from a binary companion) also produce relativistic jets. However, no direct
evidence of particle acceleration above GeV energies has ever been obtained in
microquasar ejections, leaving open the issue of the occurrence and timing of
extreme matter energization during jet formation. Here we report the detection
of transient gamma-ray emission above 100 MeV from the microquasar Cygnus X-3,
an exceptional X-ray binary which sporadically produces powerful radio jets.
Four gamma-ray flares (each lasting 1-2 days) were detected by the AGILE
satellite simultaneously with special spectral states of Cygnus X-3 during the
period mid-2007/mid-2009. Our observations show that very efficient particle
acceleration and gamma-ray propagation out of the inner disk of a microquasar
usually occur a few days before major relativistic jet ejections. Flaring
particle energies can be thousands of times larger than previously detected
maximum values (with Lorentz factors of 105 and 102 for electrons and protons,
respectively). We show that the transitional nature of gamma-ray flares and
particle acceleration above GeV energies in Cygnus X-3 is clearly linked to
special radio/X-ray states preceding strong radio flares. Thus gamma-rays
provide unique insight into the nature of physical processes in microquasars.