We present observations of the Type Ia supernova 2003du and report the
detectionof an unusual, high-velocity component in the Ca II infrared triplet,
similar tofeatures previously observed in SN 2000cx and SN 2001el. This feature
exhibits a large expansion velocity (~18,000 km/s) which is nearly constant
between -7 and +2 days relative to maximum light, and disappears shortly
thereafter. Otherthan this feature, the spectral evolution and light curve
resemble those of a normal SN Ia.
  We find that the Ca II feature can plausibly be caused by a dense shell
formed when circumstellar material of solar abundance is overrun by the rapidly
expanding outermost layers of the SN ejecta. Model calculations show that the
optical and infrared spectra are remarkably unaffected by the circumstellar
interaction. In particular, no hydrogen lines are detectable in either
absorption or emission. The only qualitatively different features are the
strong, high-velocity feature in the Ca II IR-triplet, and a somewhat weaker O
I feature near 7,300 AA. The morphology and time evolution of these features
provide an estimate for the amount of accumulated matter and an indication of
the mixing in the dense shell. We apply these diagnostic tools to SN 2003du and
infer that about 2 x 10^{-2} M_sun of solar abundance material may have
accumulated in a circumstellar shell prior to the observations. Furthermore,
the early light curve data imply that the circumstellar material was originally
very close to the progenitor system, perhaps from an accretion disk, Roche lobe
or common envelope.