We show that appealing to a Quark-Nova (QN) in a tight binary system
containing a massive neutron star and a CO white dwarf (WD), a Type Ia
explosion could occur. The QN ejecta collides with the WD driving a shock that
triggers Carbon burning under degenerate conditions (the QN-Ia). The conditions
in the compressed low-mass WD (M_WD < 0.9M_sun) in our model mimics those of a
Chandrasekhar mass WD. The spin-down luminosity from the QN compact remnant
(the quark star) provides additional power that makes the QN-Ia light-curve
brighter and broader than a standard SN-Ia with similar 56Ni yield. In QNe-Ia,
photometry and spectroscopy are not necessarily linked since the kinetic energy
of the ejecta has a contribution from spin-down power and nuclear decay.
Although QNe-Ia may not obey the Phillips relationship, their brightness and
their relatively "normal looking" light-curves means they could be included in
the cosmological sample. Light-curve fitters would be confused by the
discrepancy between spectroscopy at peak and photometry and would correct for
it by effectively brightening or dimming the QNe-Ia apparent magnitudes. Thus
over- or under-estimating the true magnitude of these spin-down powered SNe-Ia.
Contamination of QNe-Ia in samples of SNe-Ia used for cosmological analyses
could systematically bias measurements of cosmological parameters if QNe-Ia are
numerous enough at high-redshift. The strong mixing induced by spin-down wind
combined with the low 56Ni yields in QNe-Ia means that these would lack a
secondary maximum in the i-band despite their luminous nature. We discuss
possible QNe-Ia progenitors.