We compared the treatment planning performance of RapidArc (RA) vs.
CyberKnife (CK) for spinal stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). Ten
patients with spinal lesions who had been treated with CK were re-planned with
RA, which consisted of two complete arcs. Computed tomography (CT) and
volumetric dose data of CK, generated using the Multiplan (Accuray) treatment
planning system (TPS) and the Ray-Trace algorithm, were imported to Varian
Eclipse TPS in Dicom format, and the data were compared with the RA plan using
analytical anisotropic algorithm (AAA) dose calculation. The optimized dose
priorities for both CK and RA plans were similar for all patients. The highest
priority was to provide enough dose coverage to the planned target volume (PTV)
while limiting the maximum dose to the spinal cord. Plan quality was evaluated
with respect to PTV coverage, conformity index (CI), high-dose spillage,
intermediate-dose spillage (R50% and D2cm), and maximum dose to the spinal
cord, which are criteria recommended by RTOG 0631 spine and 0915 lung SBRT
protocols. The mean CI +/- SD values of PTV were 1.11 +/- 0.03 and 1.17 +/-
0.10 for RA and CK (p = 0.02), respectively. On average, the maximum dose
delivered to the spinal cord in CK plans was approximately 11.6% higher than in
RA plans, and this difference was statistically significant (p < 0.001).
High-dose spillages were 0.86% and 2.26% for RA and CK (p = 0.203),
respectively. Intermediate-dose spillage characterized by D2cm was lower for RA
than for CK; however, R50% was not statistically different. Even though both
systems can create highly conformal volumetric dose distributions, the current
study shows that RA demonstrates lower high- and intermediate-dose spillage
than CK. Therefore, RA plans for spinal SBRT may be superior to CK.