We investigate the spherical harmonic degree (l) dependence of the "seismic"
quasi-biennial oscillation (QBO) observed in low-degree solar p-mode
frequencies, using Sun-as-a-star Birmingham Solar Oscillations Network (BiSON)
data. The amplitude of the seismic QBO is modulated by the 11-yr solar cycle,
with the amplitude of the signal being largest at solar maximum. The amplitude
of the signal is noticeably larger for the l=2 and 3 modes than for the l=0 and
1 modes. The seismic QBO shows some frequency dependence but this dependence is
not as strong as observed in the 11-yr solar cycle. These results are
consistent with the seismic QBO having its origins in shallow layers of the
interior (one possibility being the bottom of the shear layer extending 5per
cent below the solar surface). Under this scenario the magnetic flux
responsible for the seismic QBO is brought to the surface (where its influence
on the p modes is stronger) by buoyant flux from the 11-yr cycle, the strong
component of which is observed at predominantly low-latitudes. As the l=2 and 3
modes are much more sensitive to equatorial latitudes than the l=0 and 1 modes
the influence of the 11-yr cycle on the seismic QBO is more visible in l=2 and
3 mode frequencies. Our results imply that close to solar maximum the main
influence of the seismic QBO occurs at low latitudes (<45 degrees), which is
where the strong component of the 11-yr solar cycle resides. To isolate the
latitudinal dependence of the seismic QBO from the 11-yr solar cycle we must
consider epochs when the 11-yr solar cycle is weak. However, away from solar
maximum, the amplitude of the seismic QBO is weak making the latitudinal
dependence hard to constrain.