We main goal of this paper is to test whether the NIR peak magnitudes of SNe
Ia could be accurately estimated with only a single observation obtained close
to maximum light, provided the time of B band maximum and the optical stretch
parameter are known. We obtained multi-epoch UBVRI and single-epoch J and H
photometric observations of 16 SNe Ia in the redshift range z=0.037-0.183,
doubling the leverage of the current SN Ia NIR Hubble diagram and the number of
SNe beyond redshift 0.04. This sample was analyzed together with 102 NIR and
458 optical light curves (LCs) of normal SNe Ia from the literature.
  The analysis of 45 well-sampled NIR LCs shows that a single template
accurately describes them if its time axis is stretched with the optical
stretch parameter. This allows us to estimate the NIR peak magnitudes even with
one observation obtained within 10 days from B-band maximum. We find that the
NIR Hubble residuals show weak correlation with DM_15 and E(B-V), and for the
first time we report a possible dependence on the J_max-H_max color. The
intrinsic NIR luminosity scatter of SNe Ia is estimated to be less than
0.08-0.10 mag, which is smaller than what can be derived for a similarly
heterogeneous sample at optical wavelengths. In conclusion, we find that SNe Ia
are at least as good standard candles in the NIR as in the optical. We showed
that it is feasible to extended the NIR SN Ia Hubble diagram to z=0.2 with very
modest sampling of the NIR LCs, if complemented by well-sampled optical LCs.
Our results suggest that the most efficient way to extend the NIR Hubble
diagram to high redshift would be to obtain a single observation close to the
NIR maximum. (abridged)