We investigate the interactions of high-redshift galaxy outflows with
low-mass virialized (Tvir < 10,000K) clouds of primordial composition. While
atomic cooling allows star formation in larger primordial objects, such
"minihalos" are generally unable to form stars by themselves. However, the
large population of high-redshift starburst galaxies may have induced
widespread star formation in these objects, via shocks that caused intense
cooling both through nonequilibrium H2 formation and metal-line emission. Using
a simple analytic model, we show that the resulting star clusters naturally
reproduce three key features of the observed population of halo globular
clusters (GCs). First, the 10,000 K maximum virial temperature corresponds to
the ~ 10^6 solar mass upper limit on the stellar mass of GCs. Secondly, the
momentum imparted in such interactions is sufficient to strip the gas from its
associated dark matter halo, explaining why GCs do not reside in dark matter
potential wells. Finally, the mixing of ejected metals into the primordial gas
is able to explain the ~ 0.1 dex homogeneity of stellar metallicities within a
given GC, while at the same time allowing for a large spread in metallicity
between different clusters. To study this possibility in detail, we use a
simple 1D numerical model of turbulence transport to simulate mixing in
cloud-outflow interactions. We find that as the shock shears across the side of
the cloud, Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities arise, which cause mixing of enriched
material into > 20% of the cloud. Such estimates ignore the likely presence of
large-scale vortices, however, which would further enhance turbulence
generation. Thus quantitative mixing predictions must await more detailed
numerical studies.