Pulsar wind nebulae (PWNe) are outstanding accelerators in Nature, in the
sense that they accelerate electrons up to the radiation reaction limit.
Motivated by this observation, this paper examines the possibility that young
pulsar wind nebulae can accelerate ions to ultra-high energies at the
termination shock of the pulsar wind. We consider here powerful PWNe, fed by
pulsars born with $\sim\,$millisecond periods. Assuming that such pulsars
exist, at least during a few years after the birth of the neutron star, and
that they inject ions into the wind, we find that protons could be accelerated
up to energies of the order of the Greisen-Zatsepin-Kuzmin cut-off, for a
fiducial rotation period $P\,\sim\,1\,$msec and a pulsar magnetic field
$B_{\star}\,\sim\,10^{13}\,$G, implying a fiducial wind luminosity $L_{\rm
p}\,\sim\,10^{45}\,$erg/s and a spin-down time $t_{\rm sd}\,\sim 3\times
10^7\,$s. The main limiting factor is set by synchrotron losses in the nebula
and by the size of the termination shock; ions with $Z\geq 1$ may therefore be
accelerated to even higher energies. We derive an associated neutrino flux
produced by interactions in the source region. For a proton-dominated
composition, our maximum flux lies slightly below the 5-year sensitivity of
IceCube-86 and above the 3-year sensitivity of the projected Askaryan Radio
Array. It might thus become detectable in the next decade, depending on the
exact level of contribution of these millisecond pulsar wind nebulae to the
ultra-high energy cosmic ray flux.