Successful inference from asteroseismology relies on at least two things:
that the oscillations in the stars have amplitudes large enough to be clearly
observable; and that the oscillations themselves be stable enough to enable
precise measurements of mode frequencies and other parameters. Solar-like p
modes are damped by convection, and hence the stability of the modes depends on
the lifetime.
  We seek a simple scaling relation between the mean lifetime of the most
prominent solar-like p modes in stars, and the fundamental stellar parameters.
  We base our search for a relation on use of stellar equilibrium and pulsation
computations of a grid of stellar models, and the first asteroseismic results
on lifetimes of main-sequence, sub-giant and red-giant stars.
  We find that the mean lifetimes of all three classes of solar-like stars
scale like $T_{\rm eff}^{-4}$ (where $T_{\rm eff}$ is the effective
temperature). When this relation is combined with the well-known scaling
relation of Kjeldsen & Bedding (1995) for mode amplitudes observed in
narrow-band intensity observations, we obtain the unexpected result that the
height (the maximum power spectral density) of mode peaks in the frequency
power spectrum scales as $g^{-2}$ (where $g$ is the surface gravity). As it is
the mode height (and not the amplitude) that fixes the S/N at which the modes
can be measured, and as $g$ changes only slowly along the main sequence, this
suggests that stars cooler than the Sun might be as good targets for
asteroseismology as their hotter counterparts. When observations are instead
made in Doppler velocity, our results imply that mode height then does increase
with increasing effective temperature.