New high resolution interferometer data of 10 IR ultraluminous galaxies shows
the molecular gas is in rotating nuclear rings or disks with radii 300 to 800
pc. Most of the CO flux comes from a moderate-density, warm, intercloud medium
rather than self-gravitating clouds. Gas masses of ~ 5 x 10^9 Msun, 5 times
lower than the standard method are derived from a model of the molecular disks.
The ratio of molecular gas to dynamical mass, is M_gas/M_dyn ~ 1/6 with a
maximum ratio of gas to total mass surface density of 1/3. For the galaxies
VIIZw31, Arp193, and IRAS 10565+24, there is good evidence for rotating
molecular rings with a central gap. In addition to the rotating rings a new
class of star formation region is identified which we call an Extreme
Starburst. They have a characteristic size of only 100 pc., about 10^9 Msun of
gas and an IR luminosity of ~3 x 10^11 Lsun. Four extreme starbursts are
identified in the 3 closest galaxies in the sample Arp220, Arp193 and Mrk273.
They are the most prodigious star formation events in the local universe, each
representing about 1000 times as many OB stars as 30 Doradus. In Arp220, the CO
and 1.3 mm continuum maps show the two ``nuclei'' embedded in a central ring or
disk and a fainter structure extending 3 kpc to the east, normal to the nuclear
disk. There is no evidence that these sources really are the pre-merger nuclei.
They are compact, extreme starburst regions containing 10^9 Msun of dense
molecular gas and new stars, but no old stars. Most of the dust emission and
HCN emission arises in the two extreme starbursts. The entire bolometric
luminosity of Arp~220 comes from starbursts, not an AGN. In Mrk231, the disk
geometry shows that the molecular disk cannot be heated by the AGN; the far IR
luminosity of Mrk~231 is powered by a starburst, not the AGN. (Abridged)