We classify condensed matter systems in terms of the spacetime symmetries
they spontaneously break. In particular, we characterize condensed matter
itself as any state in a Poincar\'e-invariant theory that spontaneously breaks
Lorentz boosts while preserving at large distances some form of spatial
translations, time-translations, and possibly spatial rotations. Surprisingly,
the simplest, most minimal system achieving this symmetry breaking
pattern---the "framid"---does not seem to be realized in Nature. Instead,
Nature usually adopts a more cumbersome strategy: that of introducing internal
translational symmetries---and possibly rotational ones---and of spontaneously
breaking them along with their space-time counterparts, while preserving
unbroken diagonal subgroups. This symmetry breaking pattern describes the
infrared dynamics of ordinary solids, fluids, superfluids, and---if they
exist---supersolids. A third, "extra-ordinary", possibility involves replacing
these internal symmetries with other symmetries that do not commute with the
Poincar\'e group, for instance the galileon symmetry, supersymmetry or gauge
symmetries. Among these options, we pick the systems based on the galileon
symmetry, the "galileids", for a more detailed study. Despite some similarity,
all different patterns produce truly distinct physical systems with different
observable properties. For instance, the low-energy $2\to 2$ scattering
amplitudes for the Goldstone excitations in the cases of framids, solids and
galileids scale respectively as $E^2$, $E^4$, and $E^6$. Similarly the energy
momentum tensor in the ground state is "trivial" for framids ($\rho +p=0$),
normal for solids ($\rho+p>0$) and even inhomogenous for galileids.