In this study extremely halophilic and moderately thermophilic microorganisms
from a hypersaline microbial mat were screened for their ability to produce
antibacterial, antidiatom, antialgal and quorum sensing (QS) inhibitory
compounds. Five bacterial strains belonging to the genera Marinobacter and
Halomonas and one archaeal strain belonging to the genus Haloterrigena were
isolated from a microbial mat. The strains were able to grow at a maximum
salinity of 22-25% and a maximum temperature of 45-60{\deg}C. Hexanes,
dichloromethane and butanol extracts from the strains inhibited the growth of
at least one out of nine human pathogens. Only butanol extracts of supernatants
of Halomonas sp. SK-1 inhibited growth of the microalga Dunaliella salina. Most
extracts from isolates inhibited QS of the acyl homoserine lactone producer and
reporter Chromobacterium violaceum CV017. Purification of QS inhibitory
dichloromethane extracts of Marinobacter sp. SK-3 resulted in isolation of four
related diketopiperazines (DKPs): cyclo(L-Pro-L-Phe), cyclo(L-Pro-L-Leu),
cyclo(L-Pro-L-isoLeu) and cyclo(L-Pro-D-Phe). QS inhibitory properties of these
DKPs were tested using C. violaceum CV017 and Escherichia coli-based QS
reporters (pSB401 and pSB1075) deficient in AHL production. Cyclo(L-Pro-L-Phe)
and cyclo(L-Pro-L-isoLeu) inhibited QS dependent production of violacein by C.
violaceum CV017. Cyclo(L-Pro-L-Phe), cyclo(L-Pro-L-Leu), and
cyclo(L-Pro-L-isoLeu) reduced QS dependent luminescence of the reporter E. coli
pSB401 induced by 3-oxo-C6-HSL. Our study demonstrated the ability of
halophilic and moderately thermophilic strains from a hypersaline microbial mat
produce biotechnologically-relevant compounds that could be used as antifouling
agents