Recent studies have predicted extraordinary properties for transverse domain
walls in cylindrical nanowires: zero depinning current, the absence of the
Walker breakdown, and applications as domain wall oscillators. In order to
reliably control the domain wall motion, it is important to understand how they
interact with energy barriers.
  In this paper, we study the motion and depinning of transverse domain walls
through potential barriers in ferromagnetic cylindrical nanowires. We use
magnetic fields and spin-polarized currents to drive the domain walls along the
wire. Using magnetic fields, we find that the minimum and the maximum fields
required to push the domain wall through the barrier differ by 30 %. On the
contrary, using spin-polarized currents, we find variations of a factor 130
between the minimum value of the depinning current density and the maximum
value.
  We study the depinning current density as a function of the height of the
energy barrier using numerical and analytical methods. We find that, for a
barrier of 40 k_B T, a depinning current density of about 5 uA is sufficient to
depin the domain wall.
  We reveal and explain the mechanism that leads to these unusually low
depinning currents. One requirement for this new depinning mechanism is for the
domain wall to be able to rotate around its own axis. With the right barrier
design, the spin torque transfer term is acting exactly against the damping in
the micromagnetic system, and thus the low current density is sufficient to
accumulate enough energy quickly. These key insights may be crucial in
furthering the development of novel memory technologies, such as the racetrack
memory, that can be controlled through low current densities.