Motivated by the suggestion of Kang, Ryu \& Jones (1996) that particles can
be accelerated to high energies via diffusive shock acceleration process at the
accretion shocks formed by the infalling flow toward the clusters of galaxies,
we have calculated the expected particle flux from a cosmological ensemble of
clusters. We use the observed temperature distribution of local clusters and
assume a simple power-law evolutionary model for the comoving density of the
clusters. The shock parameters such as the shock radius and velocity are
deduced from the ICM temperature using the self-similar solutions for secondary
infall onto the clusters. The magnetic field strength is assume to be in
equipartition with the postshock thermal energy behind the accretion shock. We
also assume that the injected energy spectrum is a power-law with the
exponential cutoff at the maximum energy which is calculated from the condition
that the energy gain rate for diffusive shock acceleration is balanced by the
loss rate due to the interactions with the cosmic background radiation. In
contrast to the earlier paper we have adopted here the description of the
cosmic ray diffusion by Jokipii (1987) which leads to considerably higher
particle energies. Finally the injected particle spectrum at the clusters is
integrated over the cosmological distance to earth by considering the energy
loss due to the interactions with the cosmic background radiation. Our
calculations show that the expected spectrum of high-energy protons from the
cosmological ensemble of the cluster accretion shocks could match well the
observed cosmic ray spectrum near $10^{19}$eV with reasonable parameters and
models if about $10^{-4}$ of the infalling kinetic energy can be injected into
the intergalactic space as the high energy particles.