Total solar irradiance variations, about 0.1% between solar activity maximum
and minimum, are available from accurate satellite measurements since 1978 and
thus do not provide useful information on longer-term secular trends. Recently,
Krivova et al., 2007 reconstructed, using suitable models, the total solar
irradiance from the end of the Maunder minimum to the present, based on
variations of the surface distribution of the solar magnetic field. The latter
is calculated from the long historical record of the sunspot numbers using a
simple but consistent physical model. There are many classes of proposed
prediction methods for solar cycles behavior, based on different direct solar
activity indices or on various valuable proxies. In particular, the precursor
based methods, utilize a given proxy index to predict the future evolution of
solar activity. Long-term time series of sunspot numbers, allow us to reliably
predict the behavior of the next solar cycle, few years in advance. In previous
papers we predicted the full-shape curve of future solar cycles, using a proper
non-linear dynamics method applied to monthly smoothed sunspot numbers. In
particular, we proved that a sufficiently reliable phase-amplitude prediction
of the current solar cycle 24, requires the knowledge of the initial increasing
phase of the cycle spanning at least two years. The aim of the present paper is
to give a robust long-term prediction of solar cycle activity, many years in
advance and for at least three successive solar cycles using the same nonlinear
method and, as solar activity proxy index, the reconstructed total solar
irrandiance.