We have used SCUBA to survey an area of 50 square arcmin, detecting 19
sources down to a 3sigma sensitivity limit of 3.5 mJy at 850 microns. We have
used Monte-Carlo simulations to assess the effect of source confusion and noise
on the SCUBA fluxes and positions, finding that the fluxes of sources in the
SCUBA surveys are significantly biased upwards and that the fraction of the 850
micron background that has been resolved by SCUBA has been overestimated. The
radio/submillmetre flux ratios imply that the dust in these galaxies is being
heated by young stars rather than AGN. We have used simple evolution models
based on our parallel SCUBA survey of the local universe to address the major
questions about the SCUBA sources: (1) what fraction of the star formation at
high redshift is hidden by dust? (2) Does the submillimetre luminosity density
reach a maximum at some redshift? (3) If the SCUBA sources are
proto-ellipticals, when exactly did ellipticals form? However, we show that the
observations are not yet good enough for definitive answers to these questions.
There are, for example, acceptable models in which 10 times as much
high-redshift star formation is hidden by dust as is seen at optical
wavelengths, but also acceptable ones in which the amount of hidden star
formation is less than that seen optically. There are acceptable models in
which very little star formation occurred before a redshift of three (as might
be expected in models of hierarchical galaxy formation), but also ones in which
30% of the stars have formed by this redshift. The key to answering these
questions are measurements of the dust temperatures and redshifts of the SCUBA
sources.