In this work, we present a multi-wavelength study of XRF 040912, aimed at
measuring its distance scale and the intrinsic burst properties. We performed a
detailed spectral and temporal analysis of both the prompt and the afterglow
emission and we estimated the distance scale of the likely host galaxy. We then
used the currently available sample of XRFs with known distance to discuss the
connection between XRFs and classical Gamma-ray Bursts (GRBs). We found that
the prompt emission properties unambiguously identify this burst as an XRF,
with an observed peak energy of E_p=17+/-13 keV and a burst fluence ratio
S(2-30keV)/S(30-400keV)>1. A non-fading optical source with R~24 mag and with
an apparently extended morphology is spatially consistent with the X-ray
afterglow, likely the host galaxy. XRF 040912 is a very dark burst since no
afterglow optical counterpart is detected down to R>25 mag (3 sigma limiting
magnitude) at 13.6 hours after the burst. The host galaxy spectrum detected
from 3800A to 10000A, shows a single emission line at 9552A. The lack of any
other strong emission lines blue-ward of the detected one and the absence of
the Ly alpha cut-off down to 3800A are consistent with the hypothesis of the
[OII] line at redshift z=1.563+/-0.001. The intrinsic spectral properties rank
this XRF among the soft GRBs in the E_peak-E_iso diagram. Similar results were
obtained for most XRFs at known redshift. Only XRF 060218 and XRF 020903
represent a good example of instrinsic XRF(i-XRF) and are possibly associated
with a different progenitor population. This scenario may calls for a new
definition of XRFs.