We model the plume "splashback" phase of the SL9 collisions with Jupiter
using the ZEUS-3D hydrodynamic code. We modified the Zeus code to include gray
radiative transport, and we present validation tests. We couple the infalling
mass and momentum fluxes of SL9 plume material (from paper I) to a jovian
atmospheric model. A strong and complex shock structure results. The modeled
shock temperatures agree well with observations, and the structure and
evolution of the modeled shocks account for the appearance of high excitation
molecular line emission after the peak of the continuum light curve. The
splashback region cools by radial expansion as well as by radiation. The
morphology of our synthetic continuum light curves agree with observations over
a broad wavelength range (0.9 to 12 microns). A feature of our ballistic plume
is a shell of mass at the highest velocities, which we term the "vanguard".
Portions of the vanguard ejected on shallow trajectories produce a lateral
shock front, whose initial expansion accounts for the "third precursors" seen
in the 2-micron light curves of the larger impacts, and for hot methane
emission at early times. Continued propagation of this lateral shock
approximately reproduces the radii, propagation speed, and centroid positions
of the large rings observed at 3-4 microns by McGregor et al. The portion of
the vanguard ejected closer to the vertical falls back with high z-component
velocities just after maximum light, producing CO emission and the "flare" seen
at 0.9 microns. The model also produces secondary maxima ("bounces") whose
amplitudes and periods are in agreement with observations.