Using computer simulations, the electrophoretic motion of a positively
charged colloid (macroion) in an electrolyte solution is studied in the
framework of the primitive model. Hydrodynamic interactions are fully taken
into account by applying a hybrid simulation scheme, where the charged ions
(i.e. macroion and electrolyte), propagated via molecular dynamics (MD), are
coupled to a Lattice Boltzmann (LB) fluid. In a recent experiment it was shown
that, for multivalent salt ions, the mobility $\mu$ initially increases with
charge density $\sigma$, reaches a maximum and then decreases with further
increase of $\sigma$. The aim of the present work is to elucidate the behaviour
of $\mu$ at high values of $\sigma$. Even for the case of monovalent microions,
we find a decrease of $\mu$ with $\sigma$. A dynamic Stern layer is defined
that includes all the counterions that move with the macroion while subject to
an external electrical field. The number of counterions in the Stern layer,
$q_0$, is a crucial parameter for the behavior of $\mu$ at high values of
$\sigma$. In this case, the mobility $\mu$ depends primarily on the ratio
$q_0/Q$ (with $Q$ the valency of the macroion). The previous contention that
the increase in the distortion of the electric double layer (EDL) with
increasing $\sigma$ leads to the lowering of $\mu$ does not hold for high
$\sigma$. In fact, we show that the deformation of the EDL decreases with
increase of $\sigma$. The role of hydrodynamic interactions is inferred from
direct comparisons to Langevin simulations where the coupling to the LB fluid
is switched off. Moreover, systems with divalent counterions are considered. In
this case, at high values of $\sigma$ the phenomenon of charge inversion is
found.