The classic algorithms of Needleman--Wunsch and Smith--Waterman find a
maximum a posteriori probability alignment for a pair hidden Markov model
(PHMM). In order to process large genomes that have undergone complex genome
rearrangements, almost all existing whole genome alignment methods apply fast
heuristics to divide genomes into small pieces which are suitable for
Needleman--Wunsch alignment. In these alignment methods, it is standard
practice to fix the parameters and to produce a single alignment for subsequent
analysis by biologists.
  Our main result is the construction of a whole genome parametric alignment of
Drosophila melanogaster and Drosophila pseudoobscura. Parametric alignment
resolves the issue of robustness to changes in parameters by finding all
optimal alignments for all possible parameters in a PHMM. Our alignment draws
on existing heuristics for dividing whole genomes into small pieces for
alignment, and it relies on advances we have made in computing convex polytopes
that allow us to parametrically align non-coding regions using biologically
realistic models. We demonstrate the utility of our parametric alignment for
biological inference by showing that cis-regulatory elements are more conserved
between Drosophila melanogaster and Drosophila pseudoobscura than previously
thought. We also show how whole genome parametric alignment can be used to
quantitatively assess the dependence of branch length estimates on alignment
parameters.
  The alignment polytopes, software, and supplementary material can be
downloaded at http://bio.math.berkeley.edu/parametric/.