In recent years, compressive sensing (CS) has attracted significant attention
in parameter estimation tasks, including frequency estimation, time delay
estimation, and localization. In order to use CS in parameter estimation,
parametric dictionaries (PDs) collect observations for a sampling of the
parameter space and yield sparse representations for signals of interest when
the sampling is sufficiently dense. While this dense sampling can lead to high
coherence in the dictionary, it is possible to leverage structured sparsity
models to prevent highly coherent dictionary elements from appearing
simultaneously in the signal representations, alleviating these coherence
issues. However, the resulting approaches depend heavily on a careful setting
of the maximum allowable coherence; furthermore, their guarantees applied on
the coefficient vector recovery do not translate in general to the parameter
estimation task. In this paper, we propose the use of the earth mover's
distance (EMD), as applied to a pair of true and estimate PD coefficient
vectors, to measure the error in sparsity-based parameter estimation. We
formally analyze the connection between the aforementioned EMD and the
parameter estimation error. Additionally, we leverage the relationship between
$K$-median clustering and EMD-based sparse approximation to develop improved
PD-based parameter estimation algorithms. We theoretically show that the EMD
provides a better-suited metric for the performance of PD-based parameter
estimation. Finally, we present numerical experiments that verify our
theoretical results and show the performance improvements for the proposed
compressive parameter estimation algorithms.