A sample of 35 SNe Ia with good to excellent photometry in B and V, minimum
internal absorption, and 1200 < v < \approx 30000 km/s is compiled from the
literature. As far as their spectra are known they are all Branch-normal. For
29 of the SNe Ia also peak magnitudes in I are known. The SNe Ia have uniform
colors at maximum, i.e. <B-V>=-0.012 mag (sigma=0.051) and <V-I>=-0.276 mag
(sigma=0.078). In the Hubble diagram they define a Hubble line with a scatter
of $\sigma_M$=0.21-0.16 mag, decreasing with wavelength. The scatter is further
reduced if the SNe Ia are corrected for differences in decline rate Delta_m_15
or color (B-V). A combined correction reduces the scatter to sigma<=0.13 mag.
After the correction no significant dependence remains on Hubble type or
galactocentric distance. The Hubble line suggests some curvature which can be
differently interpreted. A consistent solution is obtained for a cosmological
model with Omega_M=0.3, Omega_Lambda=0.7, which is indicated also by much more
distant SNe Ia. Absolute magnitudes are available for eight equally blue
(Branch-normal) SNe Ia in spirals, whose Cepheid distances are known. If their
well defined mean values of M_B, M_V, and M_I are used to fit the Hubble line
to the above sample of SNe Ia one obtains H_0=58.3 km/s/Mpc, or, after
adjusting all SNe Ia to the average values of Delta_m_15 and (B-V), H_0=60.9
km/s/Mpc. Various systematic errors are discussed whose elimination tends to
decrease H_0. The finally adopted value at the 90-percent level, including
random and systematic errors, is H_0=58.5 +/- 6.3 km/s/Mpc. Several higher
values of H_0 from SNe Ia, as suggested in the literature, are found to depend
on large corrections for variations of the light curve parameter and/or on an
unwarranted reduction of the Cepheid distances of the calibrating SNe Ia.