Phenomenological relations exist between the peak luminosity and other
observables of type Ia supernovae (SNe~Ia), that allow one to standardize their
peak luminosities. However, several issues are yet to be clarified: SNe~Ia show
color variations after the standardization. Also, individual SNe~Ia can show
residuals in their standardized peak absolute magnitude at the level of $\sim
0.15$ mag. In this paper, we explore how the color and luminosity residual are
related to the wavelength shift of nebular emission lines observed at $\gsim
150$ days after maximum light. A sample of 11 SNe Ia which likely suffer from
little host extinction indicates a correlation ($3.3\sigma$) between the peak
$B-V$ color and the late-time emission-line shift. Furthermore, a nearly
identical relation applies for a larger sample in which only three SNe with
$B-V \gsim 0.2$ mag are excluded. Following the interpretation that the
late-time emission-line shift is a tracer of the viewing direction from which
an off-centre explosion is observed, we suggest that the viewing direction is a
dominant factor controlling the SN color and that a large part of the color
variations is intrinsic, rather than due to the host extinction. We also
investigate a relation between the peak luminosity residuals and the wavelength
shift in nebular emission lines in a sample of 20 SNe. We thereby found a hint
of a correlation (at $\sim 1.6 \sigma$ level). The confirmation of this will
require a future sample of SNe with more accurate distance estimates. Radiation
transfer simulations for a toy explosion model where different viewing angles
cause the late-time emission-line shift are presented, predicting a strong
correlation between the color and shift, and a weaker one for the luminosity
residual.