Measuring the masses of companions to single-line spectroscopic binary stars
is (in general) not possible because of the unknown orbital plane inclination.
Even when the mass of the visible star can be measured, only a lower limit can
be placed on the mass of the unseen companion. However, since these inclination
angles should be isotropically distributed, for a large enough, unbiased
sample, the companion mass distribution can be deconvolved from the
distribution of observables. In this work, we construct a hierarchical
probabilistic model to infer properties of unseen companion stars given
observations of the orbital period and projected radial velocity of the primary
star. We apply this model to three mock samples of low-mass white dwarfs
(LMWDs, $M\lesssim0.45~\Msun$) and a sample of post-common-envelope binaries.
We use a mixture of two Gaussians to model the WD and neutron star (NS)
companion mass distributions. Our model successfully recovers the initial
parameters of these test data sets. We then apply our model to 55 WDs in the
extremely low-mass (ELM) WD Survey. Our maximum a posteriori model for the WD
companion population has a mean mass $\mu_{\rm WD} = 0.74~\Msun$, with a
standard deviation $\sigma_{\rm WD} = 0.24~\Msun$. Our model constrains the NS
companion fraction $f_{\rm NS}$ to be $<$16\% at 68\% confidence. We make
samples from the posterior distribution publicly available so that future
observational efforts may compute the NS probability for newly discovered
LMWDs.