We present the results of a series of Swift and quasi simultaneous
ground-based infra-red observations of the blazar 3C 454.3 carried out in
April-May 2005 when the source was 10 to 30 times brighter than previously
observed. We found 3C 454.3 to be very bright and variable at all frequencies
covered by our instrumentation. The broad-band Spectral Energy Distribution
(SED) shows the usual two-bump shape (in nu-nu f(nu) space) with the Infra-red,
optical and UV data sampling the declining part of the synchrotron emission
that, even during this extremely large outburst, had its maximum in the
far-infrared. The X-ray spectral data from the XRT and BAT instruments are flat
and due to inverse Compton emission. The remarkable SED observed implies that
at the time of the Swift pointings 3C 454.3 was one of the brightest objects in
the extragalactic sky with a gamma-ray emission similar or brighter than that
of 3C 279 when observed in a high state by EGRET. Time variability in the
optical-UV flux is very different from that in the X-ray data: while the first
component varied by about a factor two within a single exposure, but remained
approximately constant between different observations, the inverse Compton
component did not vary on short time-scales but changed by more than a factor
of 3 between observations separated by a few days. This different dynamical
behaviour illustrates the need to collect simultaneous multi-frequency data
over a wide range of time-scales to fully constrain physical parameters in
blazars.