We apply the time evolution of grain size distributions by accretion and
coagulation found in our previous work to the modelling of the wavelength
dependence of interstellar linear polarization. We especially focus on the
parameters of the Serkowski curve $K$ and $\lambda_{\max}$ characterizing the
width and the maximum wavelength of this curve, respectively. We use aligned
silicate and non-aligned carbonaceous spheroidal particles with different
aspect ratios $a/b$. The imperfect alignment of grains with sizes larger than a
cut-off size $r_{V,\rm cut}$ is considered. We find that the evolutionary
effects on the polarization curve are negligible in the original model with
commonly used material parameters (hydrogen number density $n_\mathrm{H}=10^3$
cm$^{-3}$, gas temperature $T_\mathrm{gas}=10$~K, and the sticking probability
for accretion $S_\mathrm{acc}=0.3$). Therefore, we apply the tuned model where
the coagulation threshold of silicate is removed. In this model,
$\lambda_{\max}$ displaces to the longer wavelengths and the polarization curve
becomes wider ($K$ reduces) on time-scales $\sim (30 - 50) (n_\mathrm{H}/10^3
\mathrm{cm}^{-3})^{-1}$ Myr. The tuned models at $T < 30 (n_\mathrm{H}/10^3
\mathrm{cm}^{-3})^{-1} $ Myr and different values of the parameters $r_{V,\rm
cut}$ can also explain the observed trend between $K$ and $\lambda_{\max}$. It
is significant that the evolutionary effect appears in the perpendicular
direction to the effect of $r_{V,\rm cut}$ on the $K$ - $\lambda_{\max}$
diagram. Very narrow polarization curves can be reproduced if we change the
type of particles (prolate/oblate) and/or vary $a/b$.