From 1979--1996 the Green Bank Interferometer was used by the Naval Research
Laboratory to monitor the flux density from 146 compact radio sources at
frequencies near 2 and 8 GHz. We filter the ``light curves'' to separate
intrinsic variations on times of a year or more from more rapid interstellar
scintilation (ISS) on times of 5--50 d. Whereas the intrinsic variation at 2
GHz is similar to that at 8 GHz (though diminished in amplitude), the ISS
variation is much stronger at 2 than at 8 GHz. We characterize the ISS
variation by an rms amplitude and a timescale and examine the statistics of
these parameters for the 121 sources with significant ISS at 2 GHz. We model
the scintillations using the NE2001 Galactic electron model assuming the
sources are brightness-limited.
  We find the observed rms amplitude to be in general agreement with the model,
provided that the compact components of the sources have about 50% of their
flux density in a component with maximum brightness temperatures
$10^{11}$--$10^{12}$K. Thus our results are consistent with cm-wavelength VLBI
studies of compact AGNs, in that the maximum brightness temperatures found are
consistent with the inverse synchrotron limit at $3 \times 10^{11}$ K, boosted
in jet configurations by Doppler factors up to about 20. The average of the
observed 2 GHz ISS timescales is in reasonable agreement with the model at
Galactic latitudes above about 10\de. At lower latitudes the observed
timescales are too fast, suggesting that the transverse plasma velocity
increases more than expected beyond about 1 kpc.