We investigate the early phase of the first state change during the 2008
September-November outburst of H1743-322, first detected by the INTEGRAL
satellite. We analyse INTEGRAL, RXTE, Swift, and XMM/Newton observations, which
provide coverage of the quiescence to outburst evolution in the 3-200 keV range
every few days. The energy spectra are well fitted by a phenomenological model
consisting of an exponentially cut-off power law plus a disc component. A more
physical model of thermal Comptonisation (and a disc) represents the spectra
equally well. In a first phase (up to MJD 54760), the photon index and
temperature of the disc do not vary significantly, and have values reminiscent
of the Hard State (HS). The timing analysis is also consistent with that of a
HS, and shows in particular a rather high degree of variability (~30%), and a
strong ~0.5-1 Hz QPO with its first harmonic. The timing and spectral
characteristics of H1743-322 are similar to those of the first HS during its
2003 outburst. After MJD 54760, a change to softer spectra and a ~5-6 Hz QPO
indicate that the source underwent a state transition into a Hard-Intermediate
State (HIMS). We observe in both states a correlation between the QPO frequency
and the photon index, which indicates a strong link between the accretion disc,
generally understood to determine the QPO frequency, and the corona, which
determines the QPO power. The gradual disappearance of the QPO harmonic, and
the slowly decreasing hard X-ray flux, imply that the accretion disc gradually
moved inwards during the HS.