In this study, we considered stellar spots, stellar flares, and also the
relation between these two magnetic proccesses that take place on UV Cet stars.
In addition, the hypothesis about slow flares described by Gurzadyan (1986
Ap&SS, 125, 127) was investigated. All of these discussions were based on the
results of three years of observations of UV Cet-type stars: AD Leo, EV Lac,
V1005 Ori, EQ Peg, and V1054 Oph. First of all, the results show that stellar
spot activity occurs on the stellar surface of EV Lac, V1005 Ori, and EQ Peg,
while AD Leo does not show any short-term variability and V1054 Oph does not
exhibit any variability. We report on new ephemerides for EV Lac, V1005 Ori,
and EQ Peg, obtained from time-series analyses. The phases, computed at
intervals of 0.10 phase length, where the mean flare occurence rates to obtain
maximum amplitude; also, the phases of rotational modulation were compared in
order to investigate whether there is any longitudinal relation between stellar
flares and spots. Although the results show that flare events are related with
spotted areas on stellar surfaces during some of the observing seasons, we did
not find any clear correlation among them. Finally, it was tested whether slow
flares are fast flares occurring on the opposite side of the stars according to
the direction of the observers, as mentioned in a hypothesis developed by <A
>Gurzadyan (1986)</A>. The flare occurence rates reveal that both slow and fast
flares can occur in any rotational phases. The flare occurence rates of both
fast and slow flares vary in the same way along the longitudes for all program
stars. These results are not expected based on the case mentioned in the
hypothesis.