The collision of two particles in the background of a Sen black hole is
studied. With the equations of motion of the particles, the center-of-mass
energy is investigated when the collision takes place at the horizon of a Sen
black hole. For an extremal Sen black hole, we find that the center-of-mass
energy will be arbitrarily high with two conditions: (1) spin $a\neq 0$ and (2)
one of the colliding particles has the critical angular momentum
$l_{\text{c}}=2$. For a nonextremal Sen black hole, we show that, in order to
obtain an unlimited center-of-mass energy, one of the colliding particles
should have the critical angular momentum $l'_{\text{c}}=2 r_{+}/a$ ($r_{+}$ is
the radius of the outer horizon for a nonextremal black hole). However, a
particle with the angular momentum $l=l'_{\text{c}}$ could not approach the
black hole from outside of the horizon through free fall, which implies that
the collision with arbitrarily high center-of-mass energy could not take place.
Thus, there is an upper bound of the center-of-mass energy for the nonextremal
black hole. We also obtain the maximal center-of-mass energy for a
near-extremal black hole and the result implies that the Planck-scale energy is
hard to be approached. Furthermore, we also consider the back-reaction effects.
The result shows that, neglecting the gravitational radiation, it has a weak
effect on the center-of-mass energy. However, we argue that the maximum allowed
center-of-mass energy will be greatly reduced to below the Planck-scale when
the gravitational radiation is included.