The distribution of the light-variation amplitudes, A(a), in addition to
determining the number of undiscovered contact binary systems falling below
photometric detection thresholds and thus lost to statistics, can serve as a
tool in determination of the mass-ratio distribution, Q(q), which is very
important for understanding of the evolution of contact binaries. Calculations
of the expected A(a) show that it tends to converge to a mass-ratio dependent
constant value for a->0. Strong dependence of A(a) on Q(q) can be used to
determine the latter distribution, but the technique is limited by the presence
of unresolved visual companions and by blending in crowded areas of the sky.
The bright-star sample to 7.5 magnitude is too small for an application of the
technique while the the Baade's Window sample from the OGLE project may suffer
stronger blending; thus the present results are preliminary and illustrative
only. Estimates based on the Baade's Window data from the OGLE project, for
amplitudes a>0.3 mag. where the statistics appear to be complete allowing
determination of Q(q) over 0.12<q<1, suggest a steep increase of Q(q) with
q->0. The mass-ratio distribution can be approximated by a power law, either
Q(q)~(1-q)^a1 with a1=6+/-2 or Q(q)~q^b1, with b1=-2+/-0.5, with a slight
preference for the former form. Both forms must be modified by the
theoretically expected cut-off caused by a tidal instability at about q_min
0.07-0.1. An expected maximum in Q(q), is expected to be mapped into a local
maximum in A(a) around 0.2-0.25 mag.