The interpretation of galaxy number counts in terms of cosmological models is
fraught with difficulty due to uncertainties in the overall galaxy population
(mix of morphological types, luminosity functions etc.) and in the observations
(loss of low surface brightness images, image blending etc.). Many of these can
be overcome if we use deep high resolution imaging of a single class of high
surface brightness galaxies, whose evolution is thought to be fairly well
understood. This is now possible by selecting elliptical and S0 galaxies using
Hubble Space Telescope images from the Medium Deep Survey and other ultradeep
WFPC2 images. In the present paper, we examine whether such data can be used to
discriminate between open and closed universes, or between conventional
cosmological models and those dominated by a cosmological constant. We find,
based on the currently available data, that unless elliptical galaxies undergo
very strong merging since $z \sim 1$ (and/or very large errors exist in the
morphological classifications), then flat models dominated by a cosmological
constant are ruled out. However, both an Einstein-de Sitter ($\Omega_{0}=1$)
model with standard passive stellar evolution and an open ($\Omega_{0}=0.05$)
model with no net evolution ({\it i.e.} cancelling stellar and dynamical
evolution) predict virtually identical elliptical and S0 galaxy counts.
 Based on these findings and the recent reportings of $H_{o} \simeq 80$ km/s
Mpc/s, we find that the maximum acceptable age of the universe is 13.3 Gyrs and
a value of $\leq 9$ Gyrs favored. A flat---$\Lambda \neq 0$---universe is
therefore {\it not} a viable solution to the $H_{o}$/globular cluster age
problem.