The pervasive presence spatial and size structure in biological populations
challenges fundamental assumptions at the heart of continuum models of
population dynamics based on mean densities (local or global) only.
Individual-based models (IBM's) were introduced over the last decade in an
attempt to overcome this limitation by following explicitly each individual in
the population. Although the IBM approach has been quite insightful, the
capability to follow each individual usually comes at the expense of analytical
tractability, which limits the generality of the statements that can be made.
For the specific case of spatial structure in populations of sessile (and
identical) organisms, space-time point processes with local regulation seem to
cover the middle ground between analytical tractability and a higher degree of
biological realism. Continuum approximations of these stochastic processes
distill their fundamental properties, but they often result in infinite
hierarchies of moment equations. We use the principle of constrained maximum
entropy to derive a closure relationship for one such hierarchy truncated at
second order using normalization and the product densities of first and second
orders as constraints. The resulting `maxent' closure is similar to the
Kirkwood superposition approximation, but it is complemented with previously
unknown correction terms that depend on on the area for which third order
correlations are irreducible. This region also serves as a validation check,
since it can only be found if the assumptions of the closure are met.
Comparisons between simulations of the point process, alternative heuristic
closures, and the maxent closure show significant improvements in the ability
of the maxent closure to predict equilibrium values for mildly aggregated
spatial patterns.