We calculate the $U(1)$ continuum gauge coupling using the values of action
parameters at the multiple point in the phase diagram of a lattice gauge
theory. The multiple point is where a maximum number of phases convene. We
obtain for the running inverse finestructure constant the values
$\alpha_1^{-1}=56\pm 5$ and $\alpha_1^{-1}=99\pm 5$ at respectively the Planck
scale and the $M_Z$ scale. The gauge group underlying the phase diagram in
which we seek multiple point values of action parameters is what we call the
Anti Grand Unified Theory (AGUT) gauge group $SMG^3$ which is the Cartesian
product of 3 standard model groups (SMGs). There is one SMG factor for each of
the $N_{gen}=3$ generations of quarks and leptons. In our model, this gauge
group $SMG^3$ is the predecessor to the usual standard model group. The latter
arises as the diagonal subgroup surviving the Planck scale breakdown of $SMG^3.
This breakdown leads to a weakening of the $U(1)$ coupling by a
$N_{gen}$-related factor. The most important correction obtained from using
multiple point parameter values (in a multi-parameter phase diagram instead of
the single critical parameter value obtained say in the 1-dimensional phase
diagram of a Wilson action) comes from including the influence of having phases
confined solely w.r.t. discrete subgroups. In particular, what matters is that
the degree of first-orderness is taken into account in making the transition
from these latter phases at the multiple point to the totally Coulomb-like
phase. Combined with the results of earlier work on the non-Abelian gauge
couplings, the results presented here lead to our prediction of
$\alpha^{-1}=136._8\pm 9$ as the value for the fine-structure constant at low
energies.