We present photometry for all bright red giant branch (RGB), horizontal
branch (HB), and asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars within 10' of the center
of M13. We find support for the idea that the population of HB stars redder
than the primary group are noticeably evolved, which resolves a disagreement
between distance moduli derived from the tip of the RGB and from stars near the
instability strip. The sharp cut at the red end of the HB provides strong
evidence that stars from the dominant HB group must still be undergoing blue
loops, implying that diffusion is being inhibited. We argue that M13's HB is a
somewhat pathological case - the dominant HB population occurs very near the
"knee" in optical CMDs, and evolved stars exclusively appear redward of that
peak, leading to the incorrect appearance of a continuation of the unevolved
HB.
  M13 has a distinct group of HB stars previously identified with the second U
jump, which may be examples of early hot flashers that ignite core helium
fusion shortly after leaving the RGB. However, there is not convincing evidence
that a large fraction of stars leave the RGB before helium flash. We revisited
the helium-sensitive R ratio, and find that M13's ratio is in agreement with
theoretical values for primordial helium abundance Y_P = 0.245 and inconsistent
with a helium enhancement DY = 0.04. The brightness of the HB (both in
comparison to the end of the canonical HB and to the tip of the RGB) also
appears to rule out the idea that the envelopes of the reddest HB stars have
been significantly enriched in helium. The absolute colors of the turnoffs of
M3 and M13 may potentially be used to look for differences in their mean helium
abundances.(ABRIDGED)