We present angle-dependent, broad-band intensity spectra from accretion disks
around black holes of 10 M$_\odot$. In our computations disks are assumed to be
slim, which means that the radial advection is taken into account while
computing effective temperature of the disk. We attempt to reconstruct
continuum and line spectra of X-ray binaries in soft state, i.e. dominated by
the disk component of multitemperature shape.
  We follow how the iron line complex depends on the external irradiation, an
accretion rate and a black hole spin. Full radiative transfer is solved
including effects of Compton scattering, free-free and all important bound-free
transitions of 10 main elements. Moreover, we include here the fundamental
series of iron lines from helium-like and hydrogen-like ions, and fluorescent
K$_{\alpha}$ and K$_{\beta}$ lines from low ionized iron. We consider two
cases: non-rotating black hole, and black hole rotating with almost maximum
spin a=0.98, and obtain spectra for five accretion disks from hard X-rays to
the infrared. In non irradiated disks, resonance lines from He-like and H-like
iron appear mostly in absorption. Such disk spectra exhibit limb-darkening in
the whole energy range. External irradiation causes that iron resonance lines
appear in emission. Furthermore, depending on disk effective temperature,
fluorescent iron K$_{\alpha}$ and K$_{\beta}$ lines are present in disk
emitting spectra.All models with irradiation exhibit limb-brightening in their
X-ray reflected continua. We show, that the disk around stellar black hole
itself is hot enought to produce strong absorption resonance lines of iron.
Emission lines can be observed only if heating by external X-rays dominates
over thermal processess in hot disk atmosphere. Irradiated disks are usually
brighter in X-ray continuum when seen edge on, and fainter when seen face on.