The TeV blazar PKS 2155-304 was monitored with the X-ray satellite ASCA in
1994 May, as part of a multiwavelength campaign from the radio to X-ray bands.
At the beginning of the two-day continuous observation, we detected a large
flare, where the 2-10 keV flux changed by a factor of 2 on a time scale of 3 x
10^4 sec. During the flare, the increase in the hard X-ray flux clearly
preceded that observed in the soft X-rays, the spectral evolution tracking a
`clockwise loop' in the flux versus photon index plane. Ascribing the
energy-dependent variability to differential synchrotron cooling of
relativistic electrons, we estimate the magnetic field B in the emission
region. We tested two different methods of comparing the time series in various
X-ray bands: (i) fitting the light curves to a Gaussian and searching for the
time shift of the peak of the flare, and (ii) calculating the discrete
correlation function. Both methods yielded a consistent solution of B ~ 0.1 G.
We also found that the flare amplitude becomes larger as the photon energy
increases, while the duration of the flare stays roughly constant through the
ASCA energy band (0.7-7.5 keV). In the framework of the time dependent
synchrotron self-Compton model in a homogeneous region, we consider a flare
where the maximum Lorentz factor (Gmax) of the injected electrons increases
uniformly throughout the emission volume. The temporal evolution of spectra as
well as the light curves were reproduced with the physical parameters
self-consistently determined from seven observables. We obtain B ~ 0.1-0.2 G
and a region size R ~ 10^-2 pc, for relativistic beaming with a Doppler factor
of D ~ 20-30. We discuss the significance of light travel time effects.