Recent technological advances in cutting-edge ultrasensitive fluorescence
microscopy have allowed single-molecule imaging experiments in living cells
across all three domains of life to become commonplace. Single-molecule
live-cell data is typically obtained in a low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)
regime sometimes only marginally in excess of 1, in which a combination of
detector shot noise, sub-optimal probe photophysics, native cell
autofluorescence and intrinsically underlying stochastic of molecules result in
highly noisy datasets for which underlying true molecular behaviour is
non-trivial to discern. The ability to elucidate real molecular phenomena is
essential in relating experimental single-molecule observations to both the
biological system under study as well as offering insight into the fine details
of the physical and chemical environments of the living cell. To confront this
problem of faithful signal extraction and analysis in a noise-dominated regime,
the needle in a haystack challenge, such experiments benefit enormously from a
suite of objective, automated, high-throughput analysis tools that can home in
on the underlying molecular signature and generate meaningful statistics across
a large population of individual cells and molecules. Here, I discuss the
development and application of several analytical methods applied to real case
studies, including objective methods of segmenting cellular images from light
microscopy data, tools to robustly localize and track single
fluorescently-labelled molecules, algorithms to objectively interpret molecular
mobility, analysis protocols to reliably estimate molecular stoichiometry and
turnover, and methods to objectively render distributions of molecular
parameters