The most important evidence of non-thermal phenomena in galaxy clusters comes
from Giant Radio Halos (GRHs), synchrotron radio sources extended over Mpc
scales, detected in a growing number of massive galaxy clusters. A promising
possibility to explain these sources is given by "in situ" stochastic
reacceleration of relativistic electrons by turbulence generated in the cluster
volume during merger events. Cassano & Brunetti (2005) have recently shown that
the expected fraction of clusters with GRHs and the increase of such a fraction
with cluster mass can be reconciled with present observations provided that a
fraction of 20-30 % of the turbulence in clusters is in the form of
compressible modes. In this work we extend these calculations by including a
scaling of the magnetic field strength with cluster mass. We show that the
observed correlations between the synchrotron radio power of a sample of 17
GRHs and the X-ray properties of the hosting clusters are consistent with, and
actually predicted by a magnetic field dependence on the virial mass of the
form B \propto M^b, with b>0.5 and typical micro Gauss strengths of the average
B intensity. The occurrence of GRHs as a function of both cluster mass and
redshift is obtained. The most relevant findings are that the predicted
luminosity functions of GRHs are peaked around a power P_{1.4 GHz} 10^{24}
W/Hz, and severely cut-off at low radio powers due to the decrease of the
electron reacceleration in smaller galaxy clusters. We expect a total number of
GRHs to be discovered at ~mJy radio fluxes of ~100 at 1.4 GHz. Finally, the
occurrence of GRHs and their number counts at 150 MHz are estimated in view of
the fortcoming operation of low frequency observatories (LOFAR, LWA) and
compared with those at higher radio frequencies.