We examine the Mg-sigma relation for early-type galaxies in the EFAR sample
and its dependence on cluster properties. A maximum likelihood fit gives global
Mg-sigma relations of Mgb'=0.131log(sigma)-0.131 and Mg2=0.257log(sigma)-0.305,
with intrinsic scatter of 0.016 mag in Mgb' and 0.023 mag in Mg2. The zeropoint
for cD galaxies is higher than for E/S0 galaxies, implying cDs are older and/or
more metal-rich than E/S0s with the same sigma. Mg-sigma zeropoint variations
between clusters are consistent with the number of galaxies observed per
cluster and the global intrinsic scatter in Mg-sigma. We find no significant
correlation between the Mg-sigma zeropoint and the cluster velocity dispersion,
X-ray luminosity or X-ray temperature over a wide range in cluster mass. We
compare the intrinsic scatter in the Mg-sigma and Fundamental Plane (FP)
relations with stellar population models to constrain the dispersion in ages,
metallicities and M/L ratios for early-type galaxies at fixed sigma. Variations
in age alone or metallicity alone cannot explain the measured intrinsic scatter
in both Mg-sigma and the FP. We derive the joint constraints on the dispersion
in age and metallicity implied by the scatter in the Mg-sigma and FP relations
for a simple Gaussian model. We find upper limits on the dispersions at fixed
sigma of 32% in dt/t and 38% in dZ/Z if variations in age and metallicity are
uncorrelated; only strongly anti-correlated variations lead to significantly
higher upper limits. The joint distribution of residuals from the Mg-sigma and
FP relations is only marginally consistent with a model having no correlation
between age and metallicity, and is better-matched by a model in which age and
metallicity variations are moderately anti-correlated, with younger galaxies
being more metal-rich. (Abridged)