We present the first general relativistic hydrodynamic models of the launch
and evolution of relativistic jets and winds, driven by thermal energy
deposition, possibly due to neutrino-antineutrino annihilation, in the close
vicinity of black hole-accretion torus systems. The latter are considered to be
the remnants of compact object mergers. Our two-dimensional simulations
establish the link between such mergers and future observations of short
gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) by the SWIFT satellite. They show that
ultrarelativistic outflow with maximum terminal Lorentz factors (Gamma) around
1000 develops for polar energy deposition rates above some 1e48 erg/s per
steradian, provided the merger environment has a sufficiently low baryon
density. Due to the collimation by the dense accretion torus the typical
semi-opening angles of the Gamma > 100 cone are 5-10 degrees, corresponding to
about 0.4-1.5% of the hemisphere and apparent isotropized energies (kinetic
plus internal) up to ~1e51 erg. 10-30% of the deposited energy are transferred
to the outflow with Gamma > 100. Our models confirm the viability of
post-merger BH-torus systems as engines of short, hard GRBs and can explain the
durations of all observed short GRBs, because different propagation velocities
of the front and rear ends lead to a radial stretching of the ultrarelativistic
fireball before transparency is reached. The ultrarelativistic flow reveals a
highly non-uniform structure with Lorentz factor variations up to factors of a
few, caused by the action of Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities that originate at
the fireball-torus interface (abbreviated).