The activity of growing living bacteria was investigated using real-time and
in situ rheology -- in stationary and oscillatory shear. Two different strains
of the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus -- strain COL and its isogenic cell
wall autolysis mutant -- were considered in this work. For low bacteria
density, strain COL forms small clusters, while the mutant, presenting
deficient cell separation, forms irregular larger aggregates. In the early
stages of growth, when subjected to a stationary shear, the viscosity of both
strains increases with the population of cells. As the bacteria reach the
exponential phase of growth, the viscosity of the two strains follow different
and rich behaviours, with no counterpart in the optical density or in the
population's colony forming units measurements. While the viscosity of strain
COL keeps increasing during the exponential phase and returns close to its
initial value for the late phase of growth, where the population stabilizes,
the viscosity of the mutant strain decreases steeply, still in the exponential
phase, remains constant for some time and increases again, reaching a constant
plateau at a maximum value for the late phase of growth. These complex
viscoelastic behaviours, which were observed to be shear stress dependent, are
a consequence of two coupled effects: the cell density continuous increase and
its changing interacting properties. The viscous and elastic moduli of strain
COL, obtained with oscillatory shear, exhibit power-law behaviours whose
exponent are dependent on the bacteria growth stage. The viscous and elastic
moduli of the mutant have complex behaviours, emerging from the different
relaxation times that are associated with the large molecules of the medium and
the self-organized structures of bacteria. These behaviours reflect
nevertheless the bacteria growth stage.