The probability of detecting a planetary companion of a lensing star during a
microlensing event toward the Galactic center, averaged over all relevant event
and galactic parameters, when the planet-star mass ratio $q=0.001$ has a
maximum exceeding 10% at an orbit semimajor axis $a$ near 1.5 AU for a uniform
distribution of impact parameters. The maximum probability is raised to more
than 20% for a distribution of source-lens impact parameters that is determined
by the efficiency of event detection. The averaging procedures are carefully
defined, and they determinine the dependence of the detection probabilities on
several properties of the Galaxy. The probabilities scale approximately as
$\sqrt{q}$. A planet is assumed detectable if the perturbation of the single
lens light curve exceeds $2/(S/N)$ for at least 20 consecutive photometric
points sometime during the event. Two meter telescopes with 60 second
integrations in I-band with high time resolution photometry throughout the
duration of an ongoing event are assumed. The probabilities are derived as a
function of $a$, where they remain significant for $0.6<a<10$ AU. Dependence of
the detection probabilities on the lens mass function, luminosity function of
the source stars as modified by extinction, distribution of source-lens impact
parameters, and the line of sight to the source are also determined, and the
probabilities are averaged over the distribution of the projected planet
position, the lens mass function, the distribution of impact parameters, the
lens and source distances as weighted by their distributions along the line of
sight and over the $I$-band apparent luminosity function of the sources. The
extraction of the probabilility as a function of $a$ for a particular $q$ from
empirical data is indicated.