Measurements by the U.C. Berkeley Infrared Spatial Interferometer at
11.15 micron have yielded strong evidence for multiple dust shells and/or
significant asymmetric dust emission around NML Cyg. New observations reported
also include multiple 8-13 micron spectra taken from 1994-1995 and N band
(10.2 micron) photometry from 1980-1992. These and past measurements are
analyzed and fitted to a model of the dust distribution around NML Cyg. No
spherically symmetric single dust shell model is found consistent with both
near- and mid-infrared observations. However, a circularly symmetric maximum
entropy reconstruction of the 11 micron brightness distribution suggests a
double shell model for the dust distribution. Such a model, consisting of a
geometrically thin shell of intermediate optical depth ($\tau_{11 micron}
\sim 1.9$) plus an outer shell ($\tau_{11 micron} \sim 0.33$), is consistent
not only with the 11 micron visibility data, but also with near-infrared
speckle measurements, the broadband spectrum, and the 9.7 micron silicate
feature. The outer shell, or large scale structure, is revealed only by
long-baseline interferometry at 11 micron, being too cold ($\sim$ 400 K) to
contribute in the near-infrared and having no unambiguous spectral signature in
the mid-infrared. The optical constants of Ossenkopf, Henning, & Mathis (1992)
proved superior to the Draine & Lee (1984) constants in fitting the detailed
shape of the silicate feature and broadband spectrum for this object. Recent
observations of H$_2$O maser emission around NML Cyg by Richards, Yates, &
Cohen (1996) are consistent with the location of the two dust shells and
provide further evidence for the two-shell model.