Photographic images are valuable data resources for studying long term
changes in the solar magnetic field and its influence on the Earth's climate
and weather.
  We digitized more than 100 years of white light images stored in photographic
plates and films that are available at Kodaikanal observatory starting from
1904. The digitized images were calibrated for relative plate density and
aligned in such a way that the solar north is in upward direction. A
semi-automated sunspot detection technique was used to identify the sunspots on
the digitized images. In addition to describing the calibration procedure and
availability of the data, we here present preliminary results on the sunspot
area measurements and their variation with time. The results show that the
white-light images have a uniform spatial resolution throughout the 90 years of
observations. However, the contrast of the images decreases from 1968 onwards.
The images are circular and do not show any major geometrical distortions. The
measured monthly averaged sunspot areas closely match the Greenwich sunspot
area over the four solar cycles studied here. The yearly averaged sunspot area
shows a high degree of correlation with the Greenwich sunspot area. Though the
monthly averaged sunspot number shows a good correlation with the monthly
averaged sunspot areas, there is a slight anti-correlation between the two
during solar maximum The Kodaikanal data archive is hosted at
http://kso.iiap.res.in. The long time sequence of the Kodaikanal white light
images provides a consistent data set for sunspot areas and other proxies. Many
studies can be performed using Kodaikanal data alone without requiring
intercalibration between different data sources.