New non-linear, spatially periodic, long wavelength electrostatic modes of an
electron fluid oscillating against a motionless ion fluid (Langmuir waves) are
given, with viscous and resistive effects included. The cold plasma
approximation is adopted, which requires the wavelength to be sufficiently
large. The pertinent requirement valid for large amplitude waves is determined.
The general non-linear solution of the continuity and momentum transfer
equations for the electron fluid along with Poisson's equation is obtained in
simple parametric form. It is shown that in all typical hydrogen plasmas, the
influence of plasma resistivity on the modes in question is negligible. Within
the limitations of the solution found, the non-linear time evolution of any
(periodic) initial electron number density profile n_e(x, t=0) can be
determined (examples). For the modes in question, an idealized model of a
strictly cold and collisionless plasma is shown to be applicable to any real
plasma, provided that the wavelength lambda >> lambda_{min}(n_0,T_e), where n_0
= const and T_e are the equilibrium values of the electron number density and
electron temperature. Within this idealized model, the minimum of the initial
electron density n_e(x_{min}, t=0) must be larger than half its equilibrium
value, n_0/2. Otherwise, the corresponding maximum n_e(x_{max},t=tau_p/2),
obtained after half a period of the plasma oscillation blows up. Relaxation of
this restriction on n_e(x, t=0) as one decreases lambda, due to the increase of
the electron viscosity effects, is examined in detail. Strong plasma viscosity
is shown to change considerably the density profile during the time evolution,
e.g., by splitting the largest maximum in two.