We enlighten some critical aspects of the three-dimensional ($d=3$)
random-field Ising model from simulations performed at zero temperature. We
consider two different, in terms of the field distribution, versions of model,
namely a Gaussian random-field Ising model and an equal-weight trimodal
random-field Ising model. By implementing a computational approach that maps
the ground-state of the system to the maximum-flow optimization problem of a
network, we employ the most up-to-date version of the push-relabel algorithm
and simulate large ensembles of disorder realizations of both models for a
broad range of random-field values and systems sizes $\mathcal{V}=L\times
L\times L$, where $L$ denotes linear lattice size and $L_{\rm max}=156$. Using
as finite-size measures the sample-to-sample fluctuations of various quantities
of physical and technical origin, and the primitive operations of the
push-relabel algorithm, we propose, for both types of distributions, estimates
of the critical field $h_{\rm c}$ and the critical exponent $\nu$ of the
correlation length, the latter clearly suggesting that both models share the
same universality class. Additional simulations of the Gaussian random-field
Ising model at the best-known value of the critical field provide the magnetic
exponent ratio $\beta/\nu$ with high accuracy and clear out the controversial
issue of the critical exponent $\alpha$ of the specific heat. Finally, we
discuss the infinite-limit size extrapolation of energy- and
order-parameter-based noise to signal ratios related to the self-averaging
properties of the model, as well as the critical slowing down aspects of the
algorithm.