This article focuses on parameter estimation of multi-levels nonlinear mixed
effects models (MNLMEMs). These models are used to analyze data presenting
multiple hierarchical levels of grouping (cluster data, clinical trials with
several observation periods,...). The variability of the individual parameters
of the regression function is thus decomposed as a between-sub ject variability
and higher levels of variability (for example within-sub ject variability). We
propose maximum likelihood estimates of parameters of those MNLMEMs with two
levels of random effects, using an extension of the SAEM-MCMC algorithm. The
extended SAEM algorithm is split into an explicit direct EM algorithm and a
stochastic EM part. Compared to the original algorithm, additional sufficient
statistics have to be approximated by relying on the conditional distribution
of the second level of random effects. This estimation method is evaluated on
pharmacokinetic cross-over simulated trials, mimicking theophyllin
concentration data. Results obtained on those datasets with either the SAEM
algorithm or the FOCE algorithm (implemented in the nlme function of R
software) are compared: biases and RMSEs of almost all the SAEM estimates are
smaller than the FOCE ones. Finally, we apply the extended SAEM algorithm to
analyze the pharmacokinetic interaction of tenofovir on atazanavir, a novel
protease inhibitor, from the ANRS 107-Puzzle 2 study. A significant decrease of
the area under the curve of atazanavir is found in patients receiving both
treatments.