(Abridged) We report on the analysis of high-speed photometry of the dwarf
nova EX Dra through its outburst cycle with eclipse mapping techniques. The
eclipse maps show evidence of the formation of a one-armed spiral structure in
the disc at the early stages of the outburst and reveal how the disc expands
during the rise until it fills most of the primary Roche lobe at maximum light.
The eclipse maps also suggest the presence of an inward and an outward-moving
heating wave during the rise and an inward-moving cooling wave in the decline.
Our results suggest a systematic deceleration of both the heating and the
cooling waves as they travel across the disc, in agreement with predictions of
the disc instability model. The analysis of the brightness temperature profiles
indicates that most of the disc appears to be in steady-state during quiescence
and at outburst maximum, but not during the intermediate stages. As a general
trend, the mass accretion rate in the outer regions is larger than in the inner
disc on the rising branch, while the opposite holds during the decline branch.
We estimate a mass accretion rate of Mdot= 10^{-8} Msun/yr at outburst maximum
and Mdot= 10^{-9.1} Msun/yr in quiescence. The brightness temperature profile
in quiescence also suggests that the viscosity parameter is high at this stage
which favours the mass-transfer instability model. The uneclipsed light has a
steady component, understood in terms of emission from the red secondary star,
and a variable component that is proportional to the out of eclipse flux and
corresponds to about 3 per cent of the total brightness of the system. The
variable component is interpreted as arising in a disc wind.