One of the least understood aspects of white dwarf evolution is the process
by which they are formed. We are aided, however, by the fact that many H- and
He-deficient pre-white dwarfs (PWDs) are multiperiodic g-mode pulsators.
Pulsations in PWDs provide a unique opportunity to probe their interiors, which
are otherwise inaccesible to direct observation. Until now, however, the nature
of the pulsation mechanism, the precise boundaries of the instability strip,
and the mass distribution of the PWDs were complete mysteries. These problems
must be addressed before we can apply knowledge of pulsating PWDs to improve
understanding of white dwarf formation. This paper lays the groundwork for
future theoretical investigations of these stars. In recent years, Whole Earth
Telescope observations led to determination of mass and luminosity for the
majority of the (non-central star) PWD pulsators. With these observations, we
identify the common properties and trends PWDs exhibit as a class. We find that
pulsators of low mass have higher luminosity, suggesting the range of
instability is highly mass-dependent. The observed trend of decreasing periods
with decreasing luminosity matches a decrease in the maximum (standing-wave)
g-mode period across the instability strip. We show that the red edge can be
caused by the lengthening of the driving timescale beyond the maximum
sustainable period. This result is general for ionization-based driving
mechanisms, and it explains the mass-dependence of the red edge. The observed
form of the mass-dependence provides a vital starting point for future
theoretical investigations of the driving mechanism. We also show that the blue
edge probably remains undetected because of selection effects arising from
rapid evolution.