In this paper, we define and study the new problem Simultaneous PQ-Ordering.
Its input consists of a set of PQ-trees, which represent sets of circular
orders of their leaves, together with a set of child-parent relations between
these PQ-trees, such that the leaves of the child form a subset of the leaves
of the parent. Simultaneous PQ-Ordering asks whether orders of the leaves of
each of the trees can be chosen simultaneously, that is, for every child-parent
relation the order chosen for the parent is an extension of the order chosen
for the child. We show that Simultaneous PQ-Ordering is NP-complete in general
and that it is efficiently solvable for a special subset of instances, the
2-fixed instances. We then show that several constrained embedding problems can
be formulated as such 2-fixed instances.
  In particular, we obtain a linear-time algorithm for Partially PQ-Constrained
Planarity for biconnected graphs, a common generalization of two recently
considered embedding problems, and a quadratic-time algorithm for Simultaneous
Embedding with Fixed Edges for biconnected graphs with a connected
intersection; formerly only the much more restricted case that the intersection
is biconnected was known to be efficiently solvable. Both results can be
extended to the case where the input graphs are not necessarily biconnected but
have the property that each cutvertex is contained in at most two non-trivial
blocks. This includes for example the case where both graphs have maximum
degree 5. Moreover, we give an optimal linear-time algorithm for recognition of
simultaneous interval graphs, improving upon a recent O(n^2 log n)-time
algorithm due to Jampani and Lubiw and show that this can be used to also solve
the problem of extending partial interval representations of graphs with n
vertices and m edges in time O(n + m), improving a recent result of Klav\'ik et
al.