Two-magnon Raman scattering provides important information about electronic
correlations in the insulating parent compounds of high-$T_c$ materials. Recent
experiments have shown a strong dependence of the Raman signal in $B_{1g}$
geometry on the frequency of the incoming photon. We present an analytical and
numerical study of the Raman intensity in the resonant regime. It has been
previously argued by one of us (A.Ch) and D. Frenkel that the most relevant
contribution to the Raman vertex at resonance is given by the triple resonance
diagram. We derive an expression for the Raman intensity in which we
simultaneously include the enhancement due to the triple resonance and a final
state interaction. We compute the two-magnon peak height (TMPH) as a function
of incident frequency and find two maxima at $\omega^{(1)}_{res} \approx
2\Delta + 3J$ and $\omega^{(2)}_{res} \approx 2\Delta + 8J$. We argue that the
high-frequency maximum is cut only by a quasiparticle damping, while the
low-frequency maximum has a finite amplitude even in the absence of damping. We
also obtain an evolution of the Raman profile from an asymmetric form around
$\omega^{(1)}_{res}$ to a symmetric form around $\omega^{(2)}_{res}$. We
further show that the TMPH depends on the fermionic quasiparticle damping, the
next-nearest neighbor hopping term $t^{\prime}$ and the corrections to the
interaction vertex between light and the fermionic current. We discuss our
results in the context of recent experiments by Blumberg et al. on
$Sr_2CuO_2Cl_2$ and $YBa_2Cu_3O_{6.1}$ and R\"{u}bhausen et al. on
$PrBa_2Cu_3O_7$ and show that the triple resonance theory yields a qualitative
and to some extent also quantitative understanding of the experimental data.