Bivariate ordered logistic models (BOLMs) are appealing to jointly model the
marginal distribution of two ordered responses and their association, given a
set of covariates. When the number of categories of the responses increases,
the number of global odds ratios (or their re-parametrizations) to be estimated
also increases and estimating the association structure becomes crucial for
this type of data. In fact, such data could be too "rich" to be fully modelled
with an ordinary BOLM while, sometimes, the well-known Dale's model could be
too parsimonious to provide a good fit. In addition, when the cross-tabulation
of the responses contains some zeros, for a number of model configurations,
including the bivariate version of the partial proportional odds model (PPOM),
estimation of a BOLM by the Fisher-scoring algorithm may either fail or
estimate a too "irregular" association structure. In this work, we propose to
use a nonparametric approach for the maximum likelihood estimation of a BOLM.
We apply penalties to the differences between adjacent row and column effects.
As a result, estimation is less demanding than an ordinary BOLM, permitting the
fit of PPOMs and/or the smoothing of the marginal and association parameters by
polynomial curves and surfaces, with scores chosen by the data. Model selection
is based on the penalized log-likelihood ratio, whose limiting distribution has
been studied through simulations, and AIC. Our proposal is compared to the
Goodman's model and the Dale's model, in terms of goodness-of-fit and
parsimony, on a literature data set. Finally, an application on an original
data set of liver disease patients is proposed.