We consider a fading point-to-point link with packets arriving randomly at
rate $\lambda$ per slot to the transmitter queue. We assume that the
transmitter can control the number of packets served in a slot by varying the
transmit power for the slot. We restrict to transmitter scheduling policies
that are monotone and stationary, i.e., the number of packets served is a
non-decreasing function of the queue length at the beginning of the slot for
every slot fade state. For such policies, we obtain asymptotic lower bounds for
the minimum average delay of the packets, when average transmitter power is a
small positive quantity $V$ more than the minimum average power required for
transmitter queue stability. We show that the minimum average delay grows
either to a finite value or as $\Omega\brap{\log(1/V)}$ or $\Omega\brap{1/V}$
when $V \downarrow 0$, for certain sets of values of $\lambda$. These sets are
determined by the distribution of fading gain, the maximum number of packets
which can be transmitted in a slot, and the transmit power function of the
fading gain and the number of packets transmitted that is assumed. We identify
a case where the above behaviour of the tradeoff differs from that obtained
from a previously considered approximate model, in which the random queue
length process is assumed to evolve on the non-negative real line, and the
transmit power function is strictly convex. We also consider a fading
point-to-point link, where the transmitter, in addition to controlling the
number of packets served, can also control the number of packets admitted in
every slot. Our approach, which uses bounds on the stationary probability
distribution of the queue length, also leads to an intuitive explanation of the
asymptotic behaviour of average delay in the regime where $V \downarrow 0$.