On 2014 Dec. 9.61, the All-Sky Automated Survey for SuperNovae (ASAS-SN or
"Assassin") discovered ASASSN-14lp just $\sim2$ days after first light using a
global array of 14-cm diameter telescopes. ASASSN-14lp went on to become a
bright supernova ($V = 11.94$ mag), second only to SN 2014J for the year. We
present prediscovery photometry (with a detection less than a day after first
light) and ultraviolet through near-infrared photometric and spectroscopic data
covering the rise and fall of ASASSN-14lp for more than 100 days. We find that
ASASSN-14lp had a broad light curve ($\Delta m_{15}(B) = 0.796 \pm
0.001_{\textrm{stat}}$), a $B$-band maximum at $2457015.823 \pm
0.030_{\textrm{stat}}$, a rise time of $16.94^{+ 0.11 }_{- 0.11 }$ days, and
moderate host--galaxy extinction ($E(B-V)_{\textrm{host}} = 0.329 \pm
0.001_{\textrm{stat}}$). Using ASASSN-14lp we derive a distance modulus for NGC
4666 of $\mu = 30.834 \pm 0.003_{\textrm{stat}} \pm 0.16_{\textrm{syst}}$
corresponding to a distance of $14.68 \pm 0.02_{\textrm{stat}} \pm
1.15_{\textrm{syst}}$ Mpc. However, a tip of the red giant branch distance to
the host galaxy should be measured to allow ASASSN-14lp to be added to the
calibrating sample of Type Ia supernovae. Finally, using our early-time
photometric and spectroscopic data along with our derived light curve
properties, we rule out red giant secondaries with limits on the radius of a
non-degenerate companion as small as $0.34 \rm{R}_\odot$ for favorable viewing
angles and estimates of the explosion time.