AGN-driven outflows are invoked by galaxy evolutionary models to quench star
formation and to explain the origin of the relations observed locally between
super massive black holes and their host galaxies. This work aims to detect the
presence of extended ionised outflows in luminous quasars where we expect the
maximum activity both in star formation and in black hole accretion. Currently,
there are only a few studies based on spatially resolved observations of
outflows at high redshift, $z>2$. We analyse a sample of six luminous (${\rm
L>10^{47} \ erg/s}$) quasars at $z\sim2.4$, observed in H-band using the
near-IR integral field spectrometer SINFONI at VLT. We perform a kinematic
analysis of the [OIII] emission line at $\lambda = 5007\AA$. [OIII] has a
complex gas kinematic, with blue-shifted velocities of a few hundreds of km/s
and line widths up to 1500 km/s. Using the spectroastrometric method we infer
size of the ionised outflows of up to $\sim$2 kpc. The properties of the
ionised outflows, mass outflow rate, momentum rate and kinetic power, are
correlated with the AGN luminosity. The increase in outflow rate with
increasing AGN luminosity is consistent with the idea that a luminous AGN
pushes away the surrounding gas through fast outflows driven by radiation
pressure, which depends on the emitted luminosity. We derive mass outflow rates
of about 6-700 M$_{\odot}$/yr for our sample, which are lower than those
observed in molecular outflows. Indeed physical properties of ionised outflows
show dependences on AGN luminosity which are similar to those of molecular
outflows but indicating that the mass of ionised gas is smaller than that of
the molecular one. Alternatively, this discrepancy between ionised and
molecular outflows could be explained with different acceleration mechanisms.