We propose a random matrix model for families of elliptic curve L-functions
of finite conductor. A repulsion of the critical zeros of these L-functions
away from the center of the critical strip was observed numerically by S. J.
Miller in 2006; such behaviour deviates qualitatively from the conjectural
limiting distribution of the zeros (for large conductors this distribution is
expected to approach the one-level density of eigenvalues of orthogonal
matrices after appropriate rescaling).Our purpose here is to provide a random
matrix model for Miller's surprising discovery. We consider the family of even
quadratic twists of a given elliptic curve. The main ingredient in our model is
a calculation of the eigenvalue distribution of random orthogonal matrices
whose characteristic polynomials are larger than some given value at the
symmetry point in the spectra. We call this sub-ensemble of SO(2N) the excised
orthogonal ensemble. The sieving-off of matrices with small values of the
characteristic polynomial is akin to the discretization of the central values
of L-functions implied by the formula of Waldspurger and Kohnen-Zagier.The
cut-off scale appropriate to modeling elliptic curve L-functions is
exponentially small relative to the matrix size N. The one-level density of the
excised ensemble can be expressed in terms of that of the well-known Jacobi
ensemble, enabling the former to be explicitly calculated. It exhibits an
exponentially small (on the scale of the mean spacing) hard gap determined by
the cut-off value, followed by soft repulsion on a much larger scale. Neither
of these features is present in the one-level density of SO(2N). When N tends
to infinity we recover the limiting orthogonal behaviour. Our results agree
qualitatively with Miller's discrepancy. Choosing the cut-off appropriately
gives a model in good quantitative agreement with the number-theoretical data.