In recent years, dynamic indentation tests have been shown to be useful both
in identification of mechanical properties of biological tissues (such as
articular cartilage) and assessing their viability. We consider frictionless
flat-ended and spherical sinusoidally-driven indentation tests utilizing
displacement-controlled loading protocol. Articular cartilage tissue is modeled
as a viscoelastic material with a time-independent Poisson's ratio. We study
the dynamic indentation stiffness with the aim of formulating criteria for
evaluation the quality of articular cartilage in order to be able to
discriminate its degenerative state. In particular, evaluating the dynamic
indentation stiffness at the turning point of the flat-ended indentation test,
we introduce the so-called incomplete storage modulus. Considering the time
difference between the time moments when the dynamic stiffness vanishes
(contact force reaches its maximum) and the dynamic stiffness becomes infinite
(indenter displacement reaches its maximum), we introduce the so-called
incomplete loss angle. Analogous quantities can be introduced in the spherical
sinusoidally-driven indentation test, however, to account for the thickness
effect, a special approach is required. We apply an asymptotic modeling
approach for analyzing and interpreting the results of the dynamic spherical
indentation test in terms of the geometrical parameter of the indenter and
viscoelastic characteristics of the material. Some implications to
non-destructive indentation diagnostics of cartilage degeneration are
discussed.