We present detailed calculations of the magnification distribution, including
both weak and strong lensing, using very recent solutions of the Dyer-Roeder
(1973) equation for light propagation in a inhomogeneous universe with a
cosmological constant and up-to-date models for the evolving cosmological
distribution of dark matter halos. We address in particular the effect of a
non-zero cosmological constant, of different density profiles of lenses, and of
finite sizes of lensed sources.
  We show that, if dark matter fluctuations are normalized to the local cluster
abundance, in the presence of a cosmological constant the optical depth for
lensing {\em decreases} compared to the case of an Einstein-de Sitter universe,
because halos in the relevant mass range are less abundant over a large
redshift interval. We also discuss the differences in the magnification
probability distributions produced by Navarro, Frenk & White (NFW) and by
Singular Isothermal Sphere (SIS) density profiles of lenses. We find that the
NFW lens is more efficient for moderate magnifications ($2\lsim A\lsim 4$), and
less efficient for larger magnifications. Moreover, we discuss quantitatively
the maximum magnification, $A_{\rm max}$, that can be achieved in the case of
extended sources (galaxies) with realistic luminosity profiles, taking into
account the possible ellipticity of the lens potential. Finally, we apply our
results to a class of sources following the luminosity evolution typical for a
unified scheme of QSO formation. We find that the lensed source counts at $850
\mu$m can be larger than the unlensed ones by several orders of magnitude at
flux densities $\gta100 $mJy.