A series of {\sl ROSAT\/}, {\sl ASCA\/} and Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory
({\sl CGRO\/}) observations of the Seyfert galaxy NGC 4151 were carried out
during the period 1993 November 30 to December 13 as part of an intensive
campaign to study the multiwavelength spectral characteristics of its short
time-scale variability. In the softest X-ray bands monitored by {\sl ROSAT}
(0.1--0.4 keV, 0.5--1.0 keV) the source flux remained constant throughout the
observing period. However, in an adjacent band (1.0--2.0 keV) significant
variability was evident, the most obvious feature being a marked increase
(factor 1.45) in the count rate over a timescale of $\sim 2$ days commencing
roughly 3 days into the monitoring period. In contrast, only a low amplitude of
variability ($\simless 10\%$) was measured in the four {\sl ASCA} observations
in the 2-10 keV band (but note that the first {\sl ASCA} observation was
performed somewhat after the onset of the flux increase seen by {\sl ROSAT}).
The count rates recorded by the Oriented Scintillation Spectrometer Experiment
(OSSE) on {\sl CGRO\/} are consistent with $\pm 15\%$ variations in the 50--150
keV gamma-ray band but there is no direct correspondence between the gamma-ray
and soft X-ray light curves.
  The 0.1 to $\sim300$ keV spectrum of NGC 4151 is dominated by a hard
power-law continuum which is cut-off at both high ($\sim90$ keV) and low
($\sim4$ keV) energy. A high energy cut-off is characteristic of a continuum
generated by the process of thermal Comptonization whereas that at low energy
arises from absorption in line-of-sight gas. In NGC 4151 this gas may be
partially photoionized by the continuum source but still retains significant
opacity below 1 keV. The observed soft X-ray variability may be the result of