Space dimensionality is a crucial variable in the analysis of the structure
and dynamics of natural systems and phenomena. The dimensionality effects of
the blackbody radiation has been the subject of considerable research activity
in recent years. These studies are still somewhat fragmentary, pos- ing
formidable qualitative and quantitative problems for various scientific and
technological areas. In this work we carry out an information-theoretical
analysis of the spectral energy density of a d-dimensional blackbody at
temperature T by means of various entropy-like quantities (disequilibrium,
Shannon entropy, Fisher information) as well as by three (dimensionless)
complexity measures (Cr\'amer-Rao, Fisher-Shannon and LMC). All these
frequency-functional quantities are calculated and discussed in terms of
temperature and dimensionality. It is shown that all three measures of
complexity have an universal character in the sense that they depend neither on
temperature nor on the Planck and Boltzmann constants, but only on the the
space dimensionality d. Moreover, they decrease when d is increasing; in
particular, the values 2.28415, 1.90979 and 1.17685 are found for the
Cr\'amer-Rao, Fisher-Shannon and LMC measures of complexity of the
3-dimensional blackbody radiation, respectively. In addition, beyond the
frequency at which the spectral density is maximum (which follows the
well-known Wien displacement law), three further characteristic frequencies are
defined in terms of the previous entropy quantities; they are shown to obey
Wien-like laws. The potential usefulness of these distinctive features of the
blackbody spectrum is physically discussed.