Incubation with noradrenaline (norepinephrine) of isolated membranes of rat's
brain corpus striatum and cortex, showed that ionic-magnesium (Mg2+) is
required for the neurotransmitter activatory response of Adenylate Cyclase [ATP
pyrophosphate-lyase (cyclizing), (EC 4.6.1.1)], AC.An Mg2+-dependent response
to the activatory effects of adrenaline, and subsequent inhibition by calcium,
suggest capability for a turnover, associated with cyclic changes in membrane
potential and participation in a short term-memory pathway.In the cell, the
neurotransmitter by activating AC generates intracellular cyclic AMP. Calcium
entrance in the cell inhibits the enzyme. The increment of cyclic AMP activates
kinaseA and their protein phosphorylating activity, allowing a long term memory
pathway. Hence, consolidating neuronal circuits, related to emotional learning
and memory affirmation.The activatory effect relates to an enzyme-noradrenaline
complex which may participate on the physiology of the fight or flight
response, by prolonged exposure. However, the persistence of an unstable enzyme
complex turns the enzyme inactive. Effect concordant, with the observation that
prolonged exposure to adrenaline, participate in the etiology of stress
triggered pathologies. At the cell physiological level AC responsiveness to
hormones could be modulated by the concentration of Chelating Metabolites.
These ones produce the release of free ATP4-, a negative modulator of AC and
the Mg2+ activated insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (IRTK). Thus, allowing an
integration of the hormonal response of both enzymes by ionic controls. This
effect could supersede the metabolic feedback control by energy-charge.
Accordingly, maximum hormonal response of both enzymes, to high Mg2+ and low
free ATP4-, allows a correlation with the known effects of low caloric intake
increasing average life expectancy.