We have extended our earlier calculations of the distance to the Heliospheric
Termination Shock (HTS) - which covered the period from the launch of V1 and V2
in 1977 to 2005 - to the period from 2006 to 2011. During this latter period
the solar wind speed, ram pressure and magnetic field decreased to the lowest
levels in recent history, related to the sunspot minimum in 2008-2009. The HTS
distance has decreased correspondingly so that V1, which was crossed by the HTS
at 94 AU in late 2004, would now, in early 2011, be expected to reach the HTS
at a distance ~80 AU, when the HTS distance would be expected to be at its
minimum. Similarly V2, which was crossed by the HTS at 84 AU in mid 2007,
would, in early 2011, reach the HTS at a distance of only 74 AU. These
distances, in early 2011, are ~15% less than those at which V1 and V2 initially
reached the HTS. The distance to the Heliopause (HP) is more uncertain but
recent calculations place its equilibrium distance at between 1.4-1.6 times the
HTS distance. Allowing for an additional 1 year for the HP to reach its
equilibrium minimum distance relative to the HTS would mean that, assuming this
distance remains a constant fraction larger than the HTS distance, the HP
distance would be at its minimum distance of (1.4-1.6) x 80 AU = 112-128 AU at
V1 in early 2012. At this time V1 will be at a distance of ~120 AU so that
there is a possibility that V1 could cross the HP and enter interstellar space
at the time 2012.0 \pm 1 year. If the crossing does not happen during this time
period, then it is unlikely that V1 will reach this defining boundary before
about 2016 because of the expected outward motion of the HTS and the HP towards
their more normal distances of 85-96 and ~120 -140 AU coincident with the
maximum of the new sunspot cycle.