We consider the Gaussian interference channel with an intermediate relay as a
main building block for cooperative interference networks. On the achievability
side, we consider compress-and-forward based strategies. Specifically, a
generalized compress-and-forward strategy, where the destinations jointly
decode the compression indices and the source messages, is shown to improve
upon the compress-and-forward strategy which sequentially decodes the
compression indices and source messages, and the recently proposed generalized
hash-and-forward strategy. We also construct a nested lattice code based
compute-and-forward relaying scheme, which outperforms other relaying schemes
when the direct link is weak. In this case, it is shown that, with a relay, the
interference link can be useful for decoding the source messages. Noting the
need for upperbounding the capacity for this channel, we propose a new
technique with which the sum rate can be bounded. In particular, the sum
capacity is upperbounded by considering the channel when the relay node has
abundant power and is named potent for that reason. For the Gaussian
interference relay channel with potent relay, we study the strong and the weak
interference regimes and establish the sum capacity, which, in turn, serve as
upperbounds for the sum capacity of the GIFRC with finite relay power.
Numerical results demonstrate that upperbounds are tighter than the cut-set
bound, and coincide with known achievable sum rates for many scenarios of
interest. Additionally, the degrees of freedom of the GIFRC are shown to be 2
when the relay has large power, achievable using compress-and-forward.