X-ray observations are a powerful diagnostic tool for transport,
acceleration, and heating of electrons in solar flares. Height and size
measurements of X-ray footpoints sources can be used to determine the
chromospheric density and constrain the parameters of magnetic field
convergence and electron pitch-angle evolution. We investigate the influence of
the chromospheric density, magnetic mirroring and collisional pitch-angle
scattering on the size of X-ray sources. The time-independent Fokker-Planck
equation for electron transport is solved numerically and analytically to find
the electron distribution as a function of height above the photosphere. From
this distribution, the expected X-ray flux as a function of height, its peak
height and full width at half maximum are calculated and compared with RHESSI
observations. A purely instrumental explanation for the observed source size
was ruled out by using simulated RHESSI images. We find that magnetic mirroring
and collisional pitch-angle scattering tend to change the electron flux such
that electrons are stopped higher in the atmosphere compared with the simple
case with collisional energy loss only. However, the resulting X-ray flux is
dominated by the density structure in the chromosphere and only marginal
increases in source width are found. Very high loop densities (>10^{11}
cm^{-3}) could explain the observed sizes at higher energies, but are
unrealistic and would result in no footpoint emission below about 40 keV,
contrary to observations. We conclude that within a monolithic density model
the vertical sizes are given mostly by the density scale-height and are
predicted smaller than the RHESSI results show.