We investigate the viability of the magnetorotational instability (MRI) in
accretion disks around both solar-type stars and very low mass stars. In
particular, we determine the disk regions where the MRI can be shut off either
by Ohmic resistivity (the so-called Dead and Undead Zones) or by ampipolar
diffusion (a region we term the Zombie Zone). We consider 2 stellar masses:
Mstar = 0.7 and 0.1 Msun. In each case, we assume that: the disk surface
density profile is that of a scaled Minimum Mass Solar Nebula, with Mdisk/Mstar
~ 0.01 as currently estimated; disk ionisation is driven primarily by stellar
X-rays, complemented by cosmic rays and radionuclides; and the stellar X-ray
luminosity scales with bolometric luminosity as Lx/Lstar ~ 10^-3.5, as
observed. Ionization rates are calculated with the MOCCASIN code, and
ionisation balance determined using a simplified chemical network, including
well-mixed 0.1 um grains at various levels of depletion. We find that (1)
ambipolar diffusion is the primary factor controlling MRI activity in disks
around both solar-type and very low mass stars. Assuming that the MRI yields
the maximum possible field strength at each radius, we further find that: (2)
the MRI-active layer constitutes only ~ 5-10% of the total disk mass; (3) the
accretion rate (Mdot) varies radially in both magnitude and sign (inward or
outward), implying time-variable accretion as well as the creation of disk gaps
and overdensities, with consequences for planet formation and migration; (4)
achieving the empirical accretion rates in solar-type and very low mass stars
requires a depletion of well-mixed small grains by a factor of 10-1000 relative
to the standard dust-to-gas mass ratio of 10^-2; and (5) the current
non-detection of polarized emission from field-aligned grains in the outer disk
regions is consistent with active MRI at those radii.