The ALEPH data on hadronic tau-decay is throughly analysed in the framework
of QCD. The perturbative calculations are performed in 1-4-loop approximation.
The analytical properties of the polarization operators are used in the whole
complex q^2 plane. It is shown that the QCD prediction for R_{tau} agrees with
the measured value R_{tau} not only for conventional Lambda^{conv}_3 =
(618+-29) MeV but as well as for Lambda^{new}_3 = (1666+-7) MeV. The
polarization operator calculated using the renormgroup has nonphysical cut
[-Lambda^2_3, 0]. If Lambda_3 = Lambda^{conv}_3, the contribution of only
physical cut is deficient in the explanation of the ALEPH experiment. If
Lambda_3 = Lambda^{new}_3 the contribution of nonphysical cut is very small and
only the physical cut explains the ALEPH experiment. The new sum rules which
follow only from analytical properties of polarization operators are obtained.
Basing on the sum rules obtained, it is shown that there is an essential
disagreement between QCD perturbation theory and the tau-lepton hadronic decay
experiment at conventional value Lambda_3. In the evolution upwards to larger
energies the matching of r(q^2) (Eq.(12)) at the masses J/psi, Upsilon and 2m_t
was performed. The obtained value alpha_s(-m^2_z) = 0.141+-0.004 (at Lambda_3 =
Lambda^{new}_3) differs essentially from conventional value, but the
calculation of the values R(s) = sigma(e+e- -> hadrons)/sigma(e+e- -> mu+mu-),
R_l = Gamma(Z -> hadrons)/Gamma(Z -> leptons), alpha_s(-3 GeV^2), alpha_s(-2.5
GeV^2) does not contradict the experiments.