Spin properties and spectral variations of high mass X-ray binary 4U 2206+54
are studied with long-term hard X-ray monitoring observations by INTEGRAL. A
long-period X-ray pulsar of P_spin\sim 5558 s has been identified in 4U
2206+54. The spin evolution of the neutron star in 4U 2206+54 is detected with
the INTEGRAL/IBIS data. From 2005 to 2011, the spin period of the neutron star
in 4U 2206+54 varies from \sim 5558 s to 5588 s. The average spin-down rate in
the last 20 years is derived as \sim 5\times 10^{-7} s s^{-1}. 4U 2206+54 is a
variable source with luminosities of \sim 10^{35} - 10^{36} erg s^{-1} in the
range of 3 -- 100 keV. Its spectrum can be described by an absorbed power-law
model with exponential rolloff. The hydrogen column density and photon index
show the anti-correlations with hard X-ray luminosity: low column density and
small photon index at maximum of luminosity. This spectral variation pattern
suggests that 4U 2206+54 would be a highly obscured binary system. Furthermore,
the possible cyclotron line features are searched for in the spectra of
different luminosities. The possible cyclotron absorption feature around 30 keV
is not confirmed in our work. The physical origin and evolutional track of this
very slow pulsation neutron star are still unclear. We suggest that 4U 2206+54
would be a young system with the long-term spin-down trend, would evolve to a
longer spin period range and transit to the spin-up phase similar to 2S
0114+65. These very slow pulsation X-ray pulsars would belong to a new class of
compact objects -- accreting magnetars.