We present results from multiwavelength observations of the galaxy NGC5005.
We use new neutral hydrogen (HI) observations from the Very Large Array to
examine the neutral gas morphology and kinematics. We find an HI disk with a
well-behaved flat rotation curve in the radial range 20\arcsec-140\arcsec.
Ionized gas observations from the SparsePak integral field unit on the WIYN
3.5m telescope provide kinematics for the central 70\arcsec. We use both the
SparsePak and HI velocity fields to derive a rotation curve for NGC5005. Deep
3.6{\mu}m observations from the Spitzer Space Telescope probe the faint
extended stellar population of NGC5005. The images reveal a large stellar disk
with a high surface brightness component that transitions to a low surface
brightness component at a radius nearly 1.6 times farther than the extent of
the gas disk detected in HI. The 3.6{\mu}m image is also decomposed into bulge
and disk components to account for the stellar light distribution. Optical
broadband B and R and narrowband H{\alpha} from the WIYN 0.9m telescope
complement the 3.6{\mu}m data by providing information about the dominant
stellar population and current star formation activity. The neutral and ionized
gas rotation curve is used along with the stellar bulge and disk light profiles
to decompose the mass distributions in NGC5005 and determine a dark matter halo
model. The maximum stellar disk contribution to the total rotation curve is
only about 70\%, suggesting that dark matter makes a significant contribution
to the dynamics at all radii.