(abridged) We model the nucleosynthesis during the thermal pulse phase of a
rotating, solar metallicity AGB star of 3M_sun. Rotationally induced mixing
during the thermal pulses produces a layer (~2E-5M_sun) on top of the CO-core
where large amounts of protons and C12 co-exist. We follow the abundance
evolution in this layer, in particular that of the neutron source C13 and of
the neutron poison N14. In our AGB model mixing persists during the entire
interpulse phase due to the steep angular velocity gradient at the
core-envelope interface. We follow the neutron production during the interpulse
phase, and find a resulting maximum neutron exposure of tau_max =0.04 mbarn^-1,
which is too small to produce any significant s-process. In parametric models,
we then investigate the combined effects of diffusive overshooting from the
convective envelope and rotationally induced mixing. Models with overshoot and
weaker interpulse mixing - as perhaps expected from more slowly rotating stars
- yield larger neutron exposures. We conclude that the incorporation of
rotationally induce mixing processes has important consequences for the
production of heavy elements in AGB stars. Through a distribution of initial
rotation rates it may lead to a natural spread in the neutron exposures
obtained in AGB stars of a given mass - as appears to be required by
observations. Our results suggest that both processes, diffusive overshoot and
rotational mixing, may be required to obtain a consistent description of the
s-process in AGB stars which fulfils all observational constraints. Finally, we
find that mixing due to rotation within our current framework does increase the
production of N15 in the partial mixing zone, however still falling short of
what seems required by observations.