The multipole moments and the tidal Love numbers of neutron stars and quark
stars satisfy certain relations which are almost insensitive to the star's
internal structure. A natural question is whether the same relations hold for
different compact objects and how they possibly approach the black-hole limit.
Here we consider "gravastars," which are hypothetical compact objects sustained
by their internal vacuum energy. Such solutions have been proposed as exotic
alternatives to the black-hole paradigm because they can be as compact as black
holes and exist in any mass range. By constructing slowly-rotating, thin-shell
gravastars to quadratic order in the spin, we compute the moment of inertia
$I$, the mass quadrupole moment $Q$, and the tidal Love number $\lambda$ in
exact form. When suitably normalized, these quantities are nonanalytical
functions of the compactness of the object. The $I$-$\lambda$-$Q$ relations of
a gravastar are dramatically different from those of an ordinary compact star,
but the black-hole limit is continuous, i.e. these quantities approach their
Kerr counterparts when the compactness is maximum. Therefore, such relations
can be used to discern a gravastar from an ordinary compact star, but not to
break the degeneracy with the black-hole case. Based on these results, we
conjecture that the full multipolar structure and the tidal deformability of a
spinning, ultracompact gravastar are identical to those of a Kerr black hole.
The approach to the black-hole limit is nonanalytical, thus violating the
critical behavior recently found for strongly anisotropic neutron stars.