A variety of researchers have successfully obtained the parameters of low
dimensional diffusion models using the data that comes out of atomistic
simulations. This naturally raises a variety of questions about efficient
estimation, goodness-of-fit tests, and confidence interval estimation. The
first part of this article uses maximum likelihood estimation to obtain the
parameters of a diffusion model from a scalar time series. I address numerical
issues associated with attempting to realize asymptotic statistics results with
moderate sample sizes in the presence of exact and approximated transition
densities. Approximate transition densities are used because the analytic
solution of a transition density associated with a parametric diffusion model
is often unknown.I am primarily interested in how well the deterministic
transition density expansions of Ait-Sahalia capture the curvature of the
transition density in (idealized) situations that occur when one carries out
simulations in the presence of a "glassy" interaction potential. Accurate
approximation of the curvature of the transition density is desirable because
it can be used to quantify the goodness-of-fit of the model and to calculate
asymptotic confidence intervals of the estimated parameters. The second part of
this paper contributes a heuristic estimation technique for approximating a
nonlinear diffusion model. A "global" nonlinear model is obtained by taking a
batch of time series and applying simple local models to portions of the data.
I demonstrate the technique on a diffusion model with a known transition
density and on data generated by the Stochastic Simulation Algorithm.