The review presents analysis and physical interpretation of available
statistical data about solar wind plasma and interplanetary magnetic field
(IMF) properties as measured in-situ at 1 A.U. by numerous space experiments
during time period from 1964 to 2007. The experimental information have been
collected in the OMNI Web/NSSDC data set of hourly averaged heliospheric
parameters for last four solar cycles from 20th to 23rd. We studied statistical
characteristics of such key heliospheric parameters as solar wind proton number
density, temperature, bulk velocity, and IMF vector as well as dimensionless
parameters. From harmonic analysis of the variations of key parameters we found
basic periods of 13.5 days, 27 days, 1 year, and ~11 years, which correspond to
rotation of the Sun, Earth and to the solar cycle. We also revealed other
periodicities such as specific five-year plasma density and temperature
variations, which origin is a subject of discussion. We have found that the
distribution of solar wind proton density, temperature and IMF is very close to
a log-normal function, while the solar wind velocity is characterized by a very
broad statistical distribution. Detailed study of the variability of
statistical distributions with solar activity was performed using a method of
running histograms. In general, the distributions of heliospheric parameters
are wider during maximum and declining phase of the solar cycle. More
complicated behavior was revealed for the solar wind velocity and temperature,
which distribution is characterized by two- or even tree-peak structure in
dependence on the phase of solar cycle. Our findings support the concepts of
solar wind sources in the open, closed and intermittent magnetic regions on the
Sun.