We present extensive optical observations of a Type IIn supernova (SN) 2010jl
for the first 1.5 years after the discovery. The UBVRI light curves
demonstrated an interesting two-stage evolution during the nebular phase, which
almost flatten out after about 90 days from the optical maximum. SN 2010jl has
one of the highest intrinsic H_alpha luminosity ever recorded for a SN IIn,
especially at late phase, suggesting a strong interaction of SN ejecta with the
dense circumstellar material (CSM) ejected by the progenitor. This is also
indicated by the remarkably strong Balmer lines persisting in the optical
spectra. One interesting spectral evolution about SN 2010jl is the appearance
of asymmetry of the Balmer lines. These lines can be well decomposed into a
narrow component and an intermediate-width component. The intermediate-width
component showed a steady increase in both strength and blueshift with time
until t ~ 400 days after maximum, but it became less blueshifted at t ~ 500
days when the line profile appeared relatively symmetric again. Owing to that a
pure reddening effect will lead to a sudden decline of the light curves and a
progressive blueshift of the spectral lines, we therefore propose that the
asymmetric profiles of H lines seen in SN 2010jl is unlikely due to the
extinction by newly formed dust inside the ejecta, contrary to the explanation
by some early studies. Based on a simple CSM-interaction model, we speculate
that the progenitor of SN 2010jl may suffer a gigantic mass loss (~ 30-50
M_sun) in a few decades before explosion. Considering a slow moving stellar
wind (e.g., ~ 28 km/s) inferred for the preexisting, dense CSM shell and the
extremely high mass-loss rate (1-2 M_sun per yr), we suggest that the
progenitor of SN 2010jl might have experienced a red supergiant stage and
explode finally as a post-red supergiant star with an initial mass above 30-40
M_sun.