R Coronae Borealis stars (RCBs) are hydrogen-deficient and carbon-rich
supergiant stars. They are very rare, as only $\sim50$ are actually known in
our Galaxy. Interestingly, RCBs are strongly suspected to be the evolved merger
product of two white dwarfs and could therefore be an important tool to
understand Supernovae type Ia in the double degenerate scenario. Constraints on
the spatial distribution and the formation rate of such stars are needed to
picture their origin and test it in the context of actual population synthesis
results. To do so, it is crucial to increase significantly the number of known
RCBs. With an absolute magnitude $\mathrm{M_V\sim-5}$ and a bright/hot
circumstellar shell made of amorphous carbon grains, RCBs are really
distinctive stars. Mono-epoch mid-infrared data can help us to discriminate
RCBs among other dust-producing stars. The aim is to produce from the WISE and
2MASS infrared catalogues a new catalogue of reasonable size, enriched with RCB
stars. Colour-Colour cuts used on all stars detected are the main selection
criteria. The selection efficiency was monitored using the 52 known RCBs. It
has been found that selection cuts in mid-infrared colour-colour diagrams are a
very efficient method of discriminating RCBs from other stars. An RCB enriched
catalogue made of only 1602 stars, with a high detection efficiency of about
77%, was produced. Spectral energy distributions of 49 known RCBs and 5 known
HdCs are also presented with estimates of their photosphere and circumstellar
shell temperatures. The newly released WISE all sky catalogue has proven to be
a valuable resource in finding RCB stars. Actual scenarios predict that between
100 and 500 RCBs exist in our Galaxy. The newly created RCB enriched catalogue
is an important step forward to significantly increase the number of known RCB
stars and therefore better understand their origin.