Histogram-based empirical Bayes methods developed for analyzing data for
large numbers of genes, SNPs, or other biological features tend to have large
biases when applied to data with a smaller number of features such as genes
with expression measured conventionally, proteins, and metabolites. To analyze
such small-scale and medium-scale data in an empirical Bayes framework, we
introduce corrections of maximum likelihood estimators (MLE) of the local false
discovery rate (LFDR). In this context, the MLE estimates the LFDR, which is a
posterior probability of null hypothesis truth, by estimating the prior
distribution. The corrections lie in excluding each feature when estimating one
or more parameters on which the prior depends. An application of the new
estimators and previous estimators to protein abundance data illustrates how
different estimators lead to very different conclusions about which proteins
are affected by cancer.
  The estimators are compared using simulated data of two different numbers of
features, two different detectability levels, and all possible numbers of
affected features. The simulations show that some of the corrected MLEs
substantially reduce a negative bias of the MLE. (The best-performing corrected
MLE was derived from the minimum description length principle.) However, even
the corrected MLEs have strong negative biases when the proportion of features
that are unaffected is greater than 90%. Therefore, since the number of
affected features is unknown in the case of real data, we recommend an
optimally weighted combination of the best of the corrected MLEs with a
conservative estimator that has weaker parametric assumptions.