The scaling of the yields of heavy projectile residues from the reactions of
25 MeV/nucleon 86Kr projectiles with 124Sn,112Sn and 64Ni, 58Nitargets is
studied. Isotopically resolved yield distributions of projectile fragments in
the range Z=10-36 from these reaction pairs were measured with the MARS recoil
separator in the angular range 2.7-5.3 degrees. The velocities of the residues,
monotonically decreasing with Z down to Z~26-28, are employed to characterize
the excitation energy. The yield ratios R21(N,Z) for each pair of systems are
found to exhibit isotopic scaling (isoscaling), namely, an exponential
dependence on the fragment atomic number Z and neutron number N. The isoscaling
is found to occur in the residue Z range corresponding to the maximum observed
excitation energies. The corresponding isoscaling parameters are alpha=0.43 and
beta=-0.50 for the Kr+Sn system and alpha=0.27 and beta=-0.34 for the Kr+Ni
system. For the Kr+Sn system, for which the experimental angular acceptance
range lies inside the grazing angle, isoscaling was found to occur for Z<26 and
N<34. For heavier fragments from Kr+Sn, the parameters vary monotonically,
alpha decreasing with Z and beta increasing with N. This variation is found to
be related to the evolution towards isospin equilibration and, as such, it can
serve as a tracer of the N/Z equilibration process. The present heavy-residue
data extend the observation of isotopic scaling from the intermediate mass
fragment region to the heavy-residue region. Such high-resolution mass
spectrometric data can provide important information on the role of isospin in
peripheral and mid-peripheral collisions, complementary to that accessible from
modern large-acceptance multidetector devices.