We present new lightcurves of the massive hot Jupiter system WASP-18 obtained
with the Spitzer spacecraft covering the entire orbit at 3.6 micron and 4.5
micron. These lightcurves are used to measure the amplitude, shape and phase of
the thermal phase effect for WASP-18b. We find that our results for the thermal
phase effect are limited to an accuracy of about 0.01% by systematic noise
sources of unknown origin. At this level of accuracy we find that the thermal
phase effect has a peak-to-peak amplitude approximately equal to the secondary
eclipse depth, has a sinusoidal shape and that the maximum brightness occurs at
the same phase as mid-occultation to within about 5 degrees at 3.6 micron and
to within about 10 degrees at 4.5 micron. The shape and amplitude of the
thermal phase curve imply very low levels of heat redistribution within the
atmosphere of the planet. We also perform a separate analysis to determine the
system geometry by fitting a lightcurve model to the data covering the
occultation and the transit. The secondary eclipse depths we measure at 3.6
micron and 4.5 micron are in good agreement with previous measurements and
imply a very low albedo for WASP-18b. The parameters of the system (masses,
radii, etc.) derived from our analysis are in also good agreement with those
from previous studies, but with improved precision. We use new high-resolution
imaging and published limits on the rate of change of the mean radial velocity
to check for the presence of any faint companion stars that may affect our
results. We find that there is unlikely to be any significant contribution to
the flux at Spitzer wavelengths from a stellar companion to WASP-18. We find
that there is no evidence for variations in the times of eclipse from a linear
ephemeris greater than about 100 seconds over 3 years.