Evolutionary hypotheses to explain the greater numbers of species in the
tropics than the temperate zone include greater age and area, higher
temperature and metabolic rates, and greater ecological opportunity. These
ideas make contrasting predictions about the relationship between speciation
processes and latitude, which I elaborate and evaluate. Available data suggest
that per capita speciation rates are currently highest in the temperate zone,
and that diversification rates (speciation minus extinction) are similar
between latitudes. In contrast, clades whose oldest analyzed dates precede the
Eocene thermal maximum, when the extent of the tropics was much greater than
today, tend to show highest speciation and diversification rates in the
tropics. These findings are consistent with age and area, which is alone among
hypotheses in predicting a time trend. Higher recent speciation rates in the
temperate zone than the tropics suggest an additional response to high
ecological opportunity associated with low species diversity. These broad
patterns are compelling but provide limited insights into underlying
mechanisms, arguing that studies of speciation processes along the latitudinal
gradient will be vital. Using threespine stickleback in depauperate northern
lakes as an example, I show how high ecological opportunity can lead to rapid
speciation. The results support a role for ecological opportunity in
speciation, but its importance in the evolution of the latitudinal gradient
remains uncertain. I conclude that per-capita evolutionary rates are no longer
higher in the tropics than the temperate zone. Nevertheless, the vast numbers
of species that have already accumulated in the tropics ensure that total rate
of species production remains highest there. Thus, tropical evolutionary
momentum helps to perpetuate the steep latitudinal biodiversity gradient.