Background: Theoretical approaches based on density functional theory provide
the only tractable method to incorporate the wide range of densities and
isospin asymmetries required to describe finite nuclei, infinite nuclear
matter, and neutron stars. Purpose: A relativistic energy density functional
(EDF) is developed to address the complexity of such diverse nuclear systems.
Moreover, a statistical perspective is adopted to describe the information
content of various physical observables. Methods: We implement the model
optimization by minimizing a suitably constructed chi-square objective function
using various properties of finite nuclei and neutron stars. The minimization
is then supplemented by a covariance analysis that includes both uncertainty
estimates and correlation coefficients. Results: A new model, FSUGold2, is
created that can well reproduce the ground-state properties of finite nuclei,
their monopole response, and that accounts for the maximum neutron star mass
observed up to date. In particular, the model predicts both a stiff symmetry
energy and a soft equation of state for symmetric nuclear matter--suggesting a
fairly large neutron-skin thickness in Pb208 and a moderate value of the
nuclear incompressibility. Conclusions: We conclude that without any meaningful
constraint on the isovector sector, relativistic EDFs will continue to predict
significantly large neutron skins. However, the calibration scheme adopted here
is flexible enough to create models with different assumptions on various
observables. Such a scheme--properly supplemented by a covariance
analysis--provides a powerful tool to identify the critical measurements
required to place meaningful constraints on theoretical models.