Recent research on global climate changes points to three distinct sources of
climate disturbance: anthropogenic; natural changes in the oceans and
atmosphere; and irregularities in the solar cycles. One of the most direct ways
to survey an exogenous component of the climatic variability is through the
measurement of variations in the diameter and shape of the solar disk. At
Observatorio Nacional/MCTI, Rio de Janeiro, after several years of diameter
observation using a CCD Solar Astrolabe, these measurements are now performed
by a state-of-the-art Solar Heliometer. The heliometric method is one of the
most successful techniques to measure small variations of angles. Its principle
has been used for the latest space borne astrometric missions, aiming to
milli-arcsecond precision. The success of this method relies in the fact that
it minimizes the dependence of angular measurements to the thermal and
mechanical stability of the instrument. However in the classic heliometer the
objective is split into two halves to which is applied a linear displacement
along the cut, thus still leaving room for a residual dependence with the
focus, due to non-concentricity of the beams of the two images. The focus
variation, as well as the effects brought by the large temperature variations
during solar observations, was tackled in the Solar Heliometer by having all
optical elements and their niches made on CCZ, and the telescope tube on carbon
fiber, both materials of negligible thermal coefficient. Additionally, the
measures are made perpendicular to the separation direction and the plate scale
can be known at every time from the solar motion itself. We present the results
from the first year of measurements, in special exploring the upheaval of solar
activity on late 2011.