Bulk properties of cold and hot neutron stars (NSs) are studied on the basis
of the hadron-quark crossover picture where a smooth transition from the
hadronic phase to the quark phase takes place at finite baryon density. By
using a phenomenological equation of state (EOS) "CRover" which interpolates
the two phases at around 3 times the nuclear matter density, it is found that
the cold NSs with the gravitational mass larger than 2-solarmass can be
sustained. This is in sharp contrast to the case of the first-order
hadron-quark transition. The radii of the cold NSs with the CRover EOS are in
the narrow range which is insensitive to the NS masses. Due to the stiffening
of the EOS induced by the hadron-quark crossover, the central density of the
NSs is at most 4 times the nuclear matter density and the hyperon-mixing barely
occurs inside the NS core. This constitutes a solution of the long-standing
hyperon puzzle. The effect of color superconductivity (CSC) on the NS
structures is also examined with the hadron-quark crossover. For the typical
strength of the diquark attraction, a slight softening of the EOS due to
two-flavor CSC (2SC) takes place and the maximum mass is reduced by about
0.2-solarmass.
  The CRover EOS is generalized to the supernova matter at finite temperature
to describe the hot NSs at birth. The hadron-quark crossover is found to
decrease the central temperature of the hot NSs under isentropic condition. The
gravitational energy release and the spin-up rate during the contraction from
the hot NS to the cold NS are also estimated.