In August 2008, the accreting milli-second X-ray pulsar (AMXP), IGR
J00291+5934, underwent an outburst lasting ~ 100 days, the first since its
discovery in 2004. We present data from the double-peaked outburst from Faulkes
Telescope North, the INT, the Keck Telescope, PAIRITEL, the Westerbork
Synthesis Radio Telescope and the Swift, XMM-Newton and RXTE X-ray missions. We
study the outburst's evolution at various wavelengths. We study the light curve
morphology, presenting the first radio-X-ray Spectral Energy Distributions
(SEDs) for this source and the most detailed UV-IR SEDs for any outbursting
AMXP. We show simple models that attempt to identify the emission mechanisms
responsible. We analyse short-timescale optical variability, and compare a
medium resolution optical spectrum with those from 2004. The outburst
morphology is unusual for an AMXP, comprising two peaks, the second containing
a 'plateau' of ~ 10 days at maximum brightness within 30 days of the initial
activity. This has implications on duty cycles of short-period X-ray
transients. The X-ray spectrum can be fitted by a single, hard power-law. We
detect optical variability of ~ 0.05 magnitudes, on timescales of minutes, but
find no periodic modulation. In the optical, the SEDs contain a blue component,
indicative of an irradiated disc, and a transient near-infrared (NIR) excess.
This excess is consistent with a simple model of an optically thick synchrotron
jet (as seen in other outbursting AMXPs). The optical spectrum shows a
double-peaked H alpha profile, a diagnostic of an accretion disc, but we do not
clearly see other lines (e.g. He I, II) reported in 2004. Optical/IR
observations of AMXPs are excellent for studying the evolution of both the
outer accretion disc and the inner jet, and may eventually provide us with
tight constraints to model disc-jet coupling in accreting neutron stars.