The statistical validation of transiting exoplanets proved to be an efficient
technique to secure the nature of small exoplanet signals which cannot be
established by purely spectroscopic means. However, the spectroscopic diagnoses
are providing us with useful constraints on the presence of blended stellar
contaminants. In this paper, we present how a contaminating star affects the
measurements of the various spectroscopic diagnoses as function of the
parameters of the target and contaminating stars using the model implemented
into the PASTIS planet-validation software. We find particular cases for which
a blend might produce a large radial velocity signal but no bisector variation.
It might also produce a bisector variation anti-correlated with the radial
velocity one, as in the case of stellar spots. In those cases, the full width
half maximum variation provides complementary constraints. These results can be
used to constrain blend scenarios for transiting planet candidates or radial
velocity planets. We review all the spectroscopic diagnoses reported in the
literature so far, especially the ones to monitor the line asymmetry. We
estimate their uncertainty and compare their sensitivity to blends. Based on
that, we recommend the use of BiGauss which is the most sensitive diagnosis to
monitor line-profile asymmetry. In this paper, we also investigate the
sensitivity of the radial velocities to constrain blend scenarios and develop a
formalism to estimate the level of dilution of a blended signal. Finally, we
apply our blend model to re-analyse the spectroscopic diagnoses of HD16702, an
unresolved face-on binary which exhibits bisector variations.