The galactic magnetic chemically peculiar (mCP) stars of the upper main
sequence are well known as periodic spectral and light variables. The observed
variability is obviously caused by the uneven distribution of overabundant
chemical elements on the surfaces of rigidly rotating stars. The mechanism
causing the clustering of some chemical elements into disparate structures on
mCP stars has not been fully understood up to now. The observations of light
changes of mCP candidates recently revealed in the nearby Large Magellanic
Cloud (LMC) should provide us with information about their rotational periods
and about the distribution of optically active elements on mCP stars born in
other galaxies. We queried for photometry at the Optical Gravitational Lensing
Experiment (OGLE)-III survey of published mCP candidates selected because of
the presence of the characteristic 5200A flux depression. In total, the
intersection of both sources resulted in twelve stars. We performed our own and
standard periodogram time series analyses of all available data. The final
results are, amongst others, the frequency of the maximum peak and the
bootstrap probability of its reality. We detected that only two mCP candidates,
190.1 1581 and 190.1 15527, may show some weak rotationally modulated light
variations with periods of 1.23 and 0.49 days; however, the 49% and 32%
probabilities of their reality are not very satisfying. The variability of the
other 10 mCP candidates is too low to be detectable by their V and I OGLE
photometry. The relatively low amplitude variability of the studied LMC mCP
candidates sample can be explained by the absence of photometric spots of
overabundant optically active chemical elements. The unexpected LMC mCPs
behaviour is probably caused by different conditions during the star formation
in the LMC and the Galaxy.