The CoRoT mission is in its third year of observation and the data from the
second long run in the galactic centre direction are being analysed. The
solar-like oscillating stars that have been observed up to now have given some
interesting results, specially concerning the amplitudes that are lower than
predicted. We present here the results from the analysis of the star HD
170987.The goal of this research work is to characterise the global parameters
of HD 170987. We look for global seismic parameters such as the mean large
separation, maximum amplitude of the modes, and surface rotation because the
signal-to-noise ratio in the observations do not allow us to measure individual
modes. We also want to retrieve the stellar parameters of the star and its
chemical composition.We have studied the chemical composition of the star using
ground-based observations performed with the NARVAL spectrograph. We have used
several methods to calculate the global parameters from the acoustic
oscillations based on CoRoT data. The light curve of the star has been
interpolated using inpainting algorithms to reduce the effect of data gaps. We
find power excess related to p modes in the range [400 - 1200]muHz with a mean
large separation of 55.2+-0.8muHz with a probability above 95% that increases
to 55.9 +-0.2muHz in a higher frequency range [500 - 1250] muHz and a rejection
level of 1%. A hint of the variation of this quantity with frequency is also
found. The rotation period of the star is estimated to be around 4.3 days with
an inclination axis of i=50 deg +20/-13. We measure a bolometric amplitude per
radial mode in a range [2.4 - 2.9] ppm around 1000 muHz. Finally, using a grid
of models, we estimate the stellar mass, M=1.43+-0.05 Msun, the radius,
R=1.96+-0.046 Rsun, and the age ~2.4 Gyr.