Erasure codes are being increasingly used in distributed-storage systems in
place of data-replication, since they provide the same level of reliability
with much lower storage overhead. We consider the problem of constructing
explicit erasure codes for distributed storage with the following desirable
properties motivated by practice: (i) Maximum-Distance-Separable (MDS): to
provide maximal reliability at minimum storage overhead, (ii) Optimal
repair-bandwidth: to minimize the amount of data needed to be transferred to
repair a failed node from remaining ones, (iii) Flexibility in repair: to allow
maximal flexibility in selecting subset of nodes to use for repair, which
includes not requiring that all surviving nodes be used for repair, (iv)
Systematic Form: to ensure that the original data exists in uncoded form, and
(v) Fast encoding: to minimize the cost of generating encoded data (enabled by
a sparse generator matrix).
  This paper presents the first explicit code construction which theoretically
guarantees all the five desired properties simultaneously. Our construction
builds on a powerful class of codes called Product-Matrix (PM) codes. PM codes
satisfy properties (i)-(iii), and either (iv) or (v), but not both
simultaneously. Indeed, native PM codes have inherent structure that leads to
sparsity, but this structure is destroyed when the codes are made systematic.
We first present an analytical framework for understanding the interaction
between the design of PM codes and the systematic property. Using this
framework, we provide an explicit code construction that simultaneously
achieves all the above desired properties. We also present general ways of
transforming existing storage and repair optimal codes to enable fast encoding
through sparsity. In practice, such sparse codes result in encoding speedup by
a factor of about 4 for typical parameters.