We performed optical spectropolarimetric observations of the subluminous Type
Ia SN2005ke at 3 epochs (days -8, -7, and +76). The explosion properties are
derived by comparing the data to explosion and radiation transfer models. The
SN shows polarimetric properties that are very similar to the only other
subluminous event for which spectropolarimetry is available, i.e. SN1999by. The
data present a very marked dominant axis, which is shared by both the continuum
and lines such as SiII 6355, suggesting that the relatively large, global
asymmetry is common to the photosphere and the line-forming region. The maximum
polarization degree observed in the SiII 6355 absorption reaches 0.39+/-0.08%.
At variance with what is seen in core-normal Type Ia, SN2005ke displays
significant continuum polarization, which grows from the blue to the red and
peaks at about 7000 A, reaching ~0.7%. The properties of the polarization and
flux spectra can be understood within the framework of a subluminous
delayed-detonation (DD), or pulsating DD scenario, or WD mergers. The
difference in appearance with respect to core-normal SNe Ia is caused by low
photospheric temperatures in combination with layers of unburned C, and more
massive layers of the products of explosive C and O burning. The comparatively
high level of continuum polarization is explained in terms of a significant
global asymmetry (~15%), which is well reproduced by an oblate ellipsoidal
geometry. Our results suggest that SN2005ke arose either from a
single-degenerate system in which the WD is especially rapidly rotating, close
to the break-up velocity, or from a double-degenerate merger. Based on the
current polarization data, we cannot distinguish between these two
possibilities.