We investigate the radial transport of magnetic flux in a thin accretion
disc, the turbulence being modelled by effective diffusion coefficients
(viscosity and resistivity). Both turbulent diffusion and advection by the
accretion flow contribute to flux transport, and they are likely to act in
opposition. We study the consequences of the vertical variation of the
diffusion coefficients, due to a varying strength of the turbulence. For this
purpose, we consider three different vertical profiles of these coefficients.
The first one is aimed at mimicking the turbulent stress profile observed in
numerical simulations of MHD turbulence in stratified discs. This enables us to
confirm the robustness of the main result of Paper I obtained for uniform
diffusion coefficients that, for weak magnetic fields, the contribution of the
accretion flow to the transport velocity of magnetic flux is much larger than
the transport velocity of mass. We then consider the presence of a dead zone
around the equatorial plane, where the physical resistivity is high while the
turbulent viscosity is low. We find that it amplifies the previous effect: weak
magnetic fields can be advected orders of magnitude faster than mass, for dead
zones with a large vertical extension. The ratio of advection to diffusion,
determining the maximum inclination of the field at the surface of the disc, is
however not much affected. Finally, we study the effect of a non-turbulent
layer at the surface of the disc, which has been suggested as a way to reduce
the diffusion of the magnetic flux. We find that the reduction of the diffusion
requires the conducting layer to extend below the height at which the magnetic
pressure equals the thermal pressure. As a consequence, if the absence of
turbulence is caused by the large-scale magnetic field, the highly conducting
layer is inefficient at reducing the diffusion.