We present light curves of three classical novae (KT Eridani, V598 Puppis,
V1280 Scorpii) and one recurrent nova (RS Ophiuchi) derived from data obtained
by the Solar Mass Ejection Imager (SMEI) on board the Coriolis satellite. SMEI
provides near complete sky-map coverage with precision visible-light photometry
at 102-minute cadence. The light curves derived from these sky maps offer
unprecedented temporal resolution around, and especially before, maximum light,
a phase of the nova eruption normally not covered by ground-based observations.
They allow us to explore fundamental parameters of individual objects including
the epoch of the initial explosion, the reality and duration of any pre-maximum
halt (found in all three fast novae in our sample), the presence of secondary
maxima, speed of decline of the initial light curve, plus precise timing of the
onset of dust formation (in V1280 Sco) leading to estimation of the bolometric
luminosity, white dwarf mass and object distance. For KT Eri, Liverpool
Telescope SkyCamT data confirm important features of the SMEI light curve and
overall our results add weight to the proposed similarities of this object to
recurrent rather than to classical novae. In RS Oph, comparison with hard X-ray
data from the 2006 outburst implies that the onset of the outburst coincides
with extensive high velocity mass-loss. It is also noted that two of the four
novae we have detected (V598 Pup and KT Eri) were only discovered by
ground-based observers weeks or months after maximum light, yet these novae
reached peak magnitudes of 3.46 and 5.42 respectively. This emphasizes the fact
that many bright novae per year are still overlooked, particularly those of the
very fast speed class. Coupled with its ability to observe novae in detail even
when relatively close to the Sun in the sky, we estimate that as many as 5
novae per year may be detectable by SMEI.