The structure of a sample of high-redshift (z=2), rotating galaxies with high
star formation rates and turbulent gas velocities of sigma=40-80 km/s is
investigated. Fitting the observed disk rotational velocities and radii with a
Mo, Mao, White (1998) (MMW) model requires unusually large disk spin parameters
lambda_d>0.1 and disk-to-dark halo mass fraction m_d=0.2, close to the cosmic
baryon fraction. The galaxies segregate into dispersion-dominated systems with
1<vmax/sigma<3, maximum rotational velocities vmax<200 km/s and disk half-light
radii rd=1-3 kpc and rotation-dominated systems with vmax>200 km/s,
vmax/sigma>3 and rd=4-8 kpc. For the dispersion-dominated sample, radial
pressure gradients partly compensate the gravitational force, reducing the
rotational velocities. Including this pressure effect in the MMW model,
dispersion-dominated galaxies can be fitted well with spin parameters lf
lambda_d=0.03-0.05 for high disk mass fractions of m_d=0.2 and with
lambda_d=0.01-0.03 for m_d=0.05. These values are in good agreement with
cosmological expectations. For the rotation-dominated sample however pressure
effects are small and better agreement with theoretically expected disk spin
parameters can only be achieved if the dark halo mass contribution in the
visible disk regime (2-3*rd) is smaller than predicted by the MMW model. We
argue that these galaxies can still be embedded in standard cold dark matter
halos if the halos did not contract adiabatically in response to disk
formation. It is shown that the observed high turbulent gas motions of the
galaxies are consistent with a Toomre instability parameter Q=1 which is equal
to the critical value, expected for gravitational disk instability to be the
major driver of turbulence. The dominant energy source of turbulence is then
the potential energy of the gas in the disk.