The process of tidal dissipation inside Jupiter is not yet understood. Its
tidal quality factor ($Q$) is inferred to lie between $10^5$ and $10^6$. We
examine effects of inertial-modes on tidal dissipation in a neutrally bouyant,
core-less, uniformly rotating planet. The rate of dissipation caused by
resonantly excited inertial-modes depends on the following three parameters:
how well they are coupled to the tidal potential, how strongly they are
dissipated (by the turbulent viscosity), and how densely distributed they are
in frequency. We find that as a function of tidal frequency, the $Q$ value
exhibits large fluctuations, with its maximum value set by the group of
inertial-modes that have a typical offset from an exact resonance of order
their turbulent damping rates. In our model, inertial-modes shed their tidally
acquired energy very close to the surface within a narrow latitudinal zone (the
'singularity belt'), and the tidal luminosity escapes freely out of the planet.
Strength of coupling between the tidal potential and inertial-modes is
sensitive to the presence of density discontinuities inside Jupiter. In the
case of a discreet density jump (as may be caused by the transition between
metallic and molecular hydrogen), we find a time-averaged $Q \sim 10^7$. Even
though it remains unclear whether tidal dissipation due to resonant
inertial-modes is the correct answer to the problem, it is impressive that our
simple treatment here already leads to three to five orders of magnitude
stronger damping than that from the equilibrium tide. Moreover, our conclusions
are not affected by the presence of a small solid core, a different
prescription for the turbulent viscosity, or nonlinear mode coupling, but they
depend critically on the static stability in the upper atmosphere of Jupiter.