This paper is concerned with an investigation into a function of macroscopic
variables known as the singular potential, building on previous work by Ball
and Majumdar. The singular potential is a function of the admissible
statistical averages of probability distributions on a state space, defined so
that it corresponds to the maximum possible entropy given known observed
statistical averages, although non-classical entropy-like objective functions
will also be considered. First the set of admissible moments must be
established, and under the conditions presented in this work the set is open,
bounded and convex allowing a description in terms of supporting hyperplanes,
which provides estimates on the development of singularities for related
probability distributions. Under appropriate conditions it is shown that the
singular potential is strictly convex, as differentiable as the microscopic
entropy, and blows up uniformly as the macroscopic variable tends to the
boundary of the set of admissible moments. Applications of the singular
potential are then discussed, and particular consideration will be given to
certain free energy functionals typical in mean-field theory, demonstrating an
equivalence between certain microscopic and macroscopic free-energy
functionals. Also, the difficulties in approximating the singular potential by
everywhere defined functions, in particular by polynomial functions, are
addressed, with examples demonstrating the failure of the Taylor approximation
to preserve relevant shape properties of the singular potential.