We present the characterization of the Kepler-93 exoplanetary system, based
on three years of photometry gathered by the Kepler spacecraft. The duration
and cadence of the Kepler observations, in tandem with the brightness of the
star, enable unusually precise constraints on both the planet and its host. We
conduct an asteroseismic analysis of the Kepler photometry and conclude that
the star has an average density of 1.652+/-0.006 g/cm^3. Its mass of
0.911+/-0.033 M_Sun renders it one of the lowest-mass subjects of asteroseismic
study. An analysis of the transit signature produced by the planet Kepler-93b,
which appears with a period of 4.72673978+/-9.7x10^-7 days, returns a
consistent but less precise measurement of the stellar density, 1.72+0.02-0.28
g/cm^3. The agreement of these two values lends credence to the planetary
interpretation of the transit signal. The achromatic transit depth, as compared
between Kepler and the Spitzer Space Telescope, supports the same conclusion.
We observed seven transits of Kepler-93b with Spitzer, three of which we
conducted in a new observing mode. The pointing strategy we employed to gather
this subset of observations halved our uncertainty on the transit radius ratio
R_p/R_star. We find, after folding together the stellar radius measurement of
0.919+/-0.011 R_Sun with the transit depth, a best-fit value for the planetary
radius of 1.481+/-0.019 R_Earth. The uncertainty of 120 km on our measurement
of the planet's size currently renders it one of the most precisely measured
planetary radii outside of the Solar System. Together with the radius, the
planetary mass of 3.8+/-1.5 M_Earth corresponds to a rocky density of 6.3+/-2.6
g/cm^3. After applying a prior on the plausible maximum densities of
similarly-sized worlds between 1--1.5 R_Earth, we find that Kepler-93b
possesses an average density within this group.