S\'ersic (1968) generalized the de Vaucouleurs law which follows the
projected (observed) one dimensional radial profile of elliptical galaxies
closely and Dehnen (1993) proposed an analytical formula of the 3-dimensional
light distributions whose projected line profile resembles the de Vaucouleurs
law. This paper is involved to recover the Dehnen model and generalize the
model to account for galaxy elliptical shapes by means of curvilinear
coordinate systems and employing a symmetry principle. The symmetry principle
maps an orthogonal coordinate system to a light distribution pattern. The
coordinate system for elliptical galaxy patterns turns out to be the one which
is formed by the complex-plane reciprocal transformation $Z=1/W$. The resulting
spatial (3-dimensional) light distribution is spherically symmetric and has
infinite gradient at its centre, which is called spherical-nucleus solution and
is used to model galaxy central area. We can make changes of the coordinate
system by cutting out some column areas of its definition domain, the areas
containing the galaxy centre. The resulting spatial (3-dimensional) light
distributions are axisymmetric or triaxial and have zero gradient at the
centre, which are called elliptical-shape solutions and are used to model
global elliptical patterns. The two types of logarithmic light distributions
are added together to model full elliptical galaxy patterns. The model is a
generalization of the Dehnen model. One of the elliptical-shape solutions
permits realistic numerical calculation and is fitted to all R-band elliptical
images from the Frei {\it et al.}(1996)'s galaxy sample. The fitting is
satisfactory. This suggests that elliptical galaxy patterns can be represented
in terms of a few basic parameters.