The paper provides a rigorous analysis of the dispersion spectrum of SH
(shear horizontal) elastic waves in periodically stratified solids. The problem
consists of an ordinary differential wave equation with periodic coefficients,
which involves two free parameters $\omega $ (the frequency) and $k$ (the
wavenumber in the direction orthogonal to the axis of periodicity). Solutions
of this equation satisfy a quasi-periodic boundary condition which yields the
Floquet parameter $K$. The resulting dispersion surface $\omega (K,k)$ may be
characterized through its cuts at constant values of $K, k$ and $\omega $ that
define the passband (real $K$) and stopband areas, the Floquet branches and the
isofrequency curves, respectively. The paper combines complementary approaches
based on eigenvalue problems and on the monodromy matrix $\mathbf{M}$. The
pivotal object is the Lyapunov function $\Delta (\omega ^{2},k^{2}) \equiv
1/2\mathrm{trace}\mathbf{M}=\cos K$ which is generalized as a function of two
variables. Its analytical properties, asymptotics and bounds are examined and
an explicit form of its derivatives obtained. Attention is given to the special
case of a zero-width stopband. These ingredients are used to analyze the cuts
of the surface $\omega (K,k).$ The derivatives of the functions $\omega (k)$ at
fixed $K$ and $\omega (K)$ at fixed $k$ and of the function $K(k)$ at fixed
$\omega $ are described in detail. The curves $\omega (k)$ at fixed $K$ are
shown to be monotonic for real $K,$ while they may be looped for complex $K$
(i.e. in the stopband areas). The convexity of the closed (first) real
isofrequency curve $K(k)$ is proved thus ruling out low-frequency caustics of
group velocity. The results are relevant to the broad area of applicability of
ordinary differential equation for scalar waves in 1D phononic (solid or fluid)
and photonic crystals.