We present the results of a joint spectral analysis of RXTE PCA, ASCA SIS,
and ROSAT PSPC data of the supernova remnant SN 1006. This work represents the
first attempt to model both the thermal and nonthermal X-ray emission over the
entire X-ray energy band from 0.12 to 17 keV. The thermal flux is described by
a nonequilibrium ionization model with an electron temperature kT = 0.6 keV, an
ionization timescale n0t = 9 x 10^9 s / cm^3, and a relative elemental
abundance of silicon that is 10-18 times larger than the solar abundance. The
nonthermal X-ray spectrum is described by a broken power law model with low-
and high-energy photon indices Gamma_1 = 2.1 and Gamma_2 = 3.0, respectively.
Since the nonthermal X-ray spectrum steepens with increasing energy, the
results of the present analysis corroborate previous claims that the nonthermal
X-ray emission is produced by synchrotron radiation. We argue that the magnetic
field strength is significantly larger than previous estimates of about 1 x
10^-5 G and arbitrarily use a value of 4 x 10^-5 G to estimate the parameters
of the cosmic-ray electron, proton, and helium spectra of the remnant. The
results for the ratio of the number densities of protons and electrons (R = 160
at 1 GeV), the total energy in cosmic rays (E_cr = 1 x 10^50 ergs), and the
spectral index of the electrons at 1 GeV (Gamma_e = 2.14 +/- 0.12) are
consistent with the hypothesis that Galactic cosmic rays are accelerated
predominantly in the shocks of supernova remnants. Yet, the remnant may or may
not accelerate nuclei to energies as high as the energy of the "knee,"
depending on the reason why the maximum energy of the electrons is only 10 TeV.