We study the distribution of dark matter in the Draco dwarf spheroidal galaxy
by modelling the moments of the line-of-sight velocity distribution of stars
obtained from new velocity data of Wilkinson et al. The luminosity distribution
is approximated by a Sersic profile fitted to the data by Odenkirchen et al. We
assume that the dark matter density profile is given by a formula with an inner
cusp and an outer exponential cut-off, as recently proposed by Kazantzidis et
al. as a result of simulations of tidal stripping of dwarfs by the potential of
the Milky Way. The dark matter distribution is characterized by the total dark
mass and the cut-off radius. The models have arbitrary velocity anisotropy
parameter assumed to be constant with radius. We estimate the three parameters
by fitting both the line-of-sight velocity dispersion and kurtosis profiles,
which allows us to break the degeneracy between the mass distribution and
velocity anisotropy. The results of the fitting procedure turn out to be very
different depending on the stellar sample considered, that is on our choice of
stars with discrepant velocities to be discarded as interlopers. For our most
reliable sample, the model parameters remain weakly constrained, but the robust
result is the preference for weakly tangential stellar orbits and high
mass-to-light ratios. The best-fitting total mass is then 7 10^7 M_sun, much
lower than recent estimates, while the mass-to-light ratio is M/L_V = 300 and
almost constant with radius. If the binary fraction in the stellar population
of Draco turns out to be significant, the kurtosis of the global velocity
distribution will be smaller and the orbits inferred will be more tangential,
while the resulting mass estimate lower.