We present final results on the angular power spectrum of total intensity
anisotropies in the CMB from the CBI. Our analysis includes all primordial
anisotropy data collected between January 2000 and April 2005, and benefits
significantly from an improved maximum likelihood analysis pipeline. It also
includes results from a 30 GHz foreground survey conducted with the Green Bank
Telescope (GBT) which places significant constraints on the possible
contamination due to foreground point sources. We improve on previous CBI
results by about a factor of two in the damping tail. These data confirm, at
~3-sigma, the existence of an excess of power over intrinsic CMB anisotropy on
small angular scales (l > 1800). Using the GBT survey, we find currently known
radio source populations are not capable of generating the power; a new
population of faint sources with steeply rising spectral indices would be
required to explain the excess with sources... We also present a full
cosmological parameter analysis of the new CBI power spectrum... With CBI
alone, the full parameter analysis finds the excess is 1.6-sigma above the
level expected for a sigma_8=0.8 universe. We find the addition of high-l CMB
data substantially improves constraints on cosmic string contributions to the
TT power spectrum as well as the running of the scalar spectral index... We
also present forecasts for what other experiments should see at different
frequencies and angular resolutions given the excess power observed by CBI. We
find that the reported high-l bandpowers from current high resolution CMB
bolometer experiments are consistent with each other and CBI if the excess
power is due to the SZE at the CBI-level of 2.5 +/- 1 times the sigma_8=0.8
standard SZ template. <Abridged>