A stochastic model of the chemical enrichment of metal-poor systems by
core-collapse (Type II) supernovae is presented, allowing for large-scale
mixing of the enriched material by turbulent motions and cloud collisions in
the interstellar medium. Infall of pristine material is taken into account by
following the evolution of the gas density in the medium. Analytical
expressions were derived for the number of stars enriched by a given number of
supernovae, as well as for the amount of mass with which the ejected material
from a supernova is mixed before being locked up in a subsequently formed star.
It is shown that for reasonable values of the gas density (~0.1 cm-3) and of
the supernova rate (~0.25 kpc-3 Myr-1) of the Galactic halo, the resulting
metallicity distributions of the extreme Population II stars show a distinct
cut-off at [Fe/H] ~= -4. In fact, by assuming no low-mass Population III stars
were able to form out of the primordial interstellar medium, the derived
fraction of stars below [Fe/H] = -4 is in agreement with observations.
Moreover, the probability is high that even the most metal-poor stars observed
to date have been enriched by several contributing supernovae. This partly
explains the relatively small star-to-star scatter in many chemical-abundance
ratios for stars down to [Fe/H] = -4, as recently found in several
observational studies. Contribution from the thermonuclear (Type Ia) supernovae
is found to be negligible over almost the entire extremely metal-poor regime.
(***abridged***)