A theoretical light curve for the 1987 outburst of V394 Coronae Austrinae
(V394 CrA) is modeled to obtain various physical parameters of this recurrent
nova. We then apply the same set of parametersto a quiescent phase and confirm
that these parameters give a unified picture of the binary. The early visual
light curve (1-10 days after the optical maximum) is well reproduced by a
thermonuclear runaway model on a very massive WD close to the Chandrasekhar
limit (1.37 +- 0.01 M_sun). The ensuing plateau phase (10-30 days) is also
reproduced by the combination of a slightly irradiated MS and a fully
irradiated flaring-up disk with a radius ~1.4 times the Roche lobe size. The
best fit parameters are the WD mass 1.37 M_sun, the companion mass 1.5 M_sun
(0.8-2.0 M_sun is acceptable), the inclination angle of the orbit i~65-68
degree, and the flaring-up rim ~0.30 times the disk radius. The envelope mass
at the optical peak is estimated to be ~6 x 10^{-6} M_sun, which indicates an
average mass accretion rate of 1.5 x 10^{-7} M_sun yr^{-1} during the quiescent
phase between the 1949 and 1987 outbursts. In the quiescent phase, the observed
light curve can be reproduced with a disk size of 0.7 times the Roche lobe size
and a rather slim thickness of 0.05 times the accretion disk size at the rim.
About 0.5 mag sinusoidal variation of the light curve requires the mass
accretion rate higher than ~1.0 x 10^{-7} M_sun yr^{-1}, which is consistent
with the above estimation from the 1987 outburst. These newly obtained
quantities are exactly the same as those predicted in a new progenitor model of
Type Ia supernovae.