Two-dimensional simulations of a Type II and a Type Ib-like supernova
explosion are presented that encompass shock revival by neutrino heating,
neutrino-driven convection, explosive nucleosynthesis, the growth of
Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities, and the propagation of newly formed metal clumps
through the exploding star. In both cases we find very high Ni56 velocities of
17000 km/s shortly after shock-revival, and a complete fragmentation of the
progenitor's metal core within the first few minutes after core bounce, due to
the growth of Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities at the Si/O and (C+O)/He
composition interfaces. This leads to the formation of high-velocity,
metal-rich clumps which eventually decouple from the flow and move
ballistically through the ejecta. Maximum final metal velocities of 3500-5500
km/s and 1200 km/s are obtained for the Type Ib model and the Type II model,
respectively. The low maximum metal velocities in the Type II model, which are
significantly smaller than those observed in SN 1987A, are due to the massive
hydrogen envelope of the progenitor. The envelope forces the supernova shock to
decelerate strongly, leaving behind a reverse shock below the He/H interface,
which interacts with the clumps and slows them down significantly. This reverse
shock is absent in the Type Ib-like model. The latter is in fairly good
agreement with observations of Type Ib supernovae. In addition, in this case
the pattern of clump formation in the ejecta is correlated with the convective
pattern prevailing during the shock-revival phase. This might be used to deduce
observational constraints for the dynamics during this early phase of the
evolution, and the role of neutrino heating in initiating the explosion.