We study the motion of an elastic capsule through a microchannel
characterized by a localized constriction. We consider a capsule with a
stress-free spherical shape and impose its steady state configuration in an
infinitely long straight channel as the initial condition for our calculations.
We report how the capsule deformation, velocity, retention time, and maximum
stress of the membrane are affected by the capillary number, Ca, and the
constriction shape. We estimate the deformation by measuring the variation of
the three-dimensional surface area and a series of alternative quantities
easier to extract from experiments. These are the Taylor parameter, the
perimeter and the area of the capsule in the spanwise plane. We find that the
perimeter is the quantity that reproduces the behavior of the three-dimensional
surface area the best. We observe that, in general, area-deformation correlated
quantities grow linearly with Ca, while velocity-correlated quantities saturate
for large Ca but display a steeper increase for small Ca. The velocity of the
capsule divided by the velocity of the flow displays, surprisingly, two
different qualitative behaviors for small and large capillary numbers. Finally,
we report that longer constrictions and spanwise wall bounded (versus spanwise
periodic) domains cause larger deformations and velocities. If the deformation
and velocity in the spanwise wall bounded domains are rescaled by the initial
equilibrium deformation and velocity, their behavior is undistinguishable from
that in a periodic domain. In contrast, a remarkably different behavior is
reported in sinusoidally shaped and smoothed rectangular constrictions
indicating that the capsule dynamics is particularly sensitive to abrupt
changes in the cross section. In a smoothed rectangular constriction larger
deformations and velocities occur over a larger distance.