This paper considers the multi-antenna multiple access relay channel (MARC),
in which multiple users transmit messages to a common destination with the
assistance of a relay. In a variety of MARC settings, the dynamic decode and
forward (DDF) protocol is very useful due to its outstanding rate performance.
However, the lack of good structured codebooks so far hinders practical
applications of DDF for MARC. In this work, two classes of structured MARC
codes are proposed: 1) one-to-one relay-mapper aided multiuser lattice coding
(O-MLC), and 2) modulo-sum relay-mapper aided multiuser lattice coding
(MS-MLC). The former enjoys better rate performance, while the latter provides
more flexibility to tradeoff between the complexity of the relay mapper and the
rate performance. It is shown that, in order to approach the rate performance
achievable by an unstructured codebook with maximum-likelihood decoding, it is
crucial to use a new K-stage coset decoder for structured O-MLC, instead of the
one-stage decoder proposed in previous works. However, if O-MLC is decoded with
the one-stage decoder only, it can still achieve the optimal DDF
diversity-multiplexing gain tradeoff in the high signal-to-noise ratio regime.
As for MS-MLC, its rate performance can approach that of the O-MLC by
increasing the complexity of the modulo-sum relay-mapper. Finally, for
practical implementations of both O-MLC and MS-MLC, practical short length
lattice codes with linear mappers are designed, which facilitate efficient
lattice decoding. Simulation results show that the proposed coding schemes
outperform existing schemes in terms of outage probabilities in a variety of
channel settings.