In this paper, we present observations and analysis of an interesting sigmoid
formation, eruption and the associated flare that occurred on 2014 April 18
using multi-wavelength data sets. We discuss the possible role of the sigmoid
eruption in triggering the flare, which consists of two different set of
ribbons: parallel ribbons as well as a large-scale quasi-circular ribbon.
Several observational evidence and nonlinear force-free field extrapolation
results show the existence of a large-scale fan-spine type magnetic
configuration with a sigmoid lying under a section of the fan dome. The event
can be explained with the following two phases. During the pre-flare phase, we
observed the formation and appearance of sigmoid via tether-cutting
reconnection between the two sets of sheared fields under the fan dome. The
second, main flare phase, features the eruption of the sigmoid, the subsequent
flare with parallel ribbons, and a quasi-circular ribbon. We propose the
following multi-stage successive reconnections scenario for the main flare.
First, tether-cutting reconnection is responsible for the formation and the
eruption of the sigmoid structure. Second, the reconnection occurred in the
wake of the erupting sigmoid produces the parallel flare ribbons on the both
sides of the circular polarity inversion line. Third, the null-type
reconnection higher in the corona, possibly triggered by the erupting sigmoid,
leads to the formation of a large quasi-circular ribbon. For the first time we
suggest a mechanism for this type of flare consisting of a double set of
ribbons triggered by an erupting sigmoid in a large scale fan-spine type
magnetic configuration.