We present a systematic experimental study of geometric and statistical
properties of thermal plumes in turbulent Rayleigh-B\'{e}nard convection using
the thermochromic-liquid-crystal (TLC) technique. The experiments were
performed in three water-filled cylindrical convection cells with aspect ratios
2, 1, and 0.5 and over the Rayleigh-number range $5\times10^7 \leq Ra \leq
10^{11}$. TLC thermal images of horizontal plane cuts at various depths below
the top plate were acquired. Three-dimensional images of thermal plumes were
then reconstructed from the two-dimensional slices of the temperature field.
The results show that the often-called sheetlike plumes are really
one-dimensional structures and may be called rodlike plumes. We find that the
number densities for both sheetlike/rodlike and mushroomlike plumes have
power-law dependence on $Ra$ with scaling exponents of $\sim 0.3$, which is
close to that between the Nusselt number $Nu$ and $Ra$. This result suggests
that it is the plume number that primarily d ermines the scaling exponent of
the $Nu$-$Ra$ scaling relation. The evolution of the aspect ratio of
sheetlike/rodlike plumes reveals that as $Ra$ increases the plume geometry
changes from more-elongated to less-elongated. Our study of the plume area
fraction (fraction of coverage over the surface of the plate) further reveals
that the increased plume numbers with $Ra$ mainly comes from increased plume
emission, rather than fragmentation of plumes. In addition, the area,
perimeter, and the shape complexity of the two-dimensional horizontal cuts of
sheetlike/rodlike plumes were studied and all are found to obey log-normal
distributions.