On the heels of the first analysis of LHC data eclipsing the inverse
femtobarn integrated luminosity milestone, we undertake a detailed comparison
of the most recent experimental results with Monte Carlo simulation of the full
"bare-minimally constrained" parameter space of the class of supersymmetric
models which go by the name of No-Scale FSU5. We establish the first sparticle
exclusion boundaries on these models, finding that the LSP mass should be at
least about 92 GeV, with a corresponding boundary gaugino mass M_1/2 above
about 485 GeV. In contrast to the higher mass constraints established for the
CMSSM, we find the minimum exclusion boundary on the FSU5 gluino and heavy
squark masses resides in the range of 658-674 GeV and 854-1088 GeV,
respectively, with a minimum light stop squark mass of about 520 GeV. Moreover,
we show that elements of the surviving parameter space not only escape the
onslaught of LHC data which is currently decimating the standard mSUGRA/CMSSM
benchmarks, but are further able to efficiently explain certain tantalizing
production excesses over the SM background which have been reported by the CMS
collaboration. We also extend this study comparatively to five distinct
collider energies and four specific cut methodologies, including a proposed set
of selection cuts designed to reveal the natural ultra-high jet multiplicity
signal associated with the stable mass hierarchy m_t < m_g < m_q of the FSU5
models. By so doing, we demonstrate that a rather stable enhancement in model
visibility, conservatively of order ten, may be attained by adoption of these
cuts, which is sufficient for an immediate and definitive testing of a majority
of the model space using only the existing LHC data set. We stress the point
that habits established in lower jet multiplicity searches do not necessarily
carry over into the ultra-high jet multiplicity search regime.