SN 2006bt displays characteristics unlike those of any other known Type Ia
supernova (SN Ia). We present optical light curves and spectra of SN 2006bt
which demonstrate the peculiar nature of this object. SN 2006bt has broad,
slowly declining light curves indicative of a hot, high-luminosity SN, but
lacks a prominent second maximum in the i band as do low-luminosity SNe Ia. Its
spectra are similar to those of low-luminosity SNe Ia, containing features that
are only present in cool SN photospheres. Light-curve fitting methods suggest
that SN 2006bt is reddened by a significant amount of dust; however, it
occurred in the outskirts of its early-type host galaxy and has no strong Na D
absorption in any of its spectra, suggesting a negligible amount of host-galaxy
dust absorption. C II is possibly detected in our pre-maximum spectra, but at a
much lower velocity than other elements. The progenitor was likely very old,
being a member of the halo population of a galaxy that shows no signs of recent
star formation. SNe Ia have been very successfully modeled as a one-parameter
family, and this is fundamental to their use as cosmological distance
indicators. SN 2006bt is a challenge to that picture, yet its relatively normal
light curves allowed SN 2006bt to be included in cosmological analyses. We
generate mock SN Ia datasets which indicate that contamination by similar
objects will both increase the scatter of a SN Ia Hubble diagram and
systematically bias measurements of cosmological parameters. However, spectra
and rest-frame i-band light curves should provide a definitive way to identify
and eliminate such objects.