We compare the normal-state resistivities $\rho$ and the critical
temperatures $T_c$ for superconducting $d_{x^2-y^2}$ pairing due to
antiferromagnetic (AF) spin fluctuation exchange in the context of the two
phenomenological dynamical spin susceptibility models, recently proposed by
Millis, Monien, and Pines (MMP) and Monthoux and Pines (MP) and, respectively,
by Radtke, Ullah, Levin, and Norman (RULN), for the cuprate high-$T_c$
materials. Assuming comparable electronic bandwidths and resistiviies in both
models, we show that the RULN model gives a much lower d-wave $T_c$
($\lsim20$K) than the MMP model (with $T_c\sim100$K). We demonstrate that these
profound differences in the $T_c$'s arise from fundamental differences in the
spectral weight distributions of the two model susceptibilities and are
{\it{not}} primarily caused by differences in the calculational techniques
employed by MP and RULN. The MMP model, claimed to fit NMR data in YBCO,
exhibits substantial amounts of spin fluctuation spectral weight up to an
imposed cut-off of 400meV, whereas, in the RULN model, claimed to fit YBCO
neutron scattering data, the weight is narrowly peaked and effectively cut-off
by 100meV. Further neutron scattering experiments, to explore the spectral
weight distribution at all wavevectors over a sufficiently large excitation
energy range, will thus be of crucial importance to resolve the question
whether AF spin fluctuation exchange provides a viable mechanism to account for
high-$T_c$ superconductivity. The large high-frequency boson spectral weight,
needed to generate both a high d-wave $T_c$ and a low normal-state resistivity,
also implies large values, of order unity, for the Migdal smallness parameter,
thus casting serious doubt on the validity of the very