We establish a criterion for the stability of planetary orbits in stellar
binary systems by using Lyapunov exponents and power spectra for the special
case of the circular restricted 3-body problem (CR3BP). The centerpiece of our
method is the concept of Lyapunov exponents, which are incorporated into the
analysis of orbital stability by integrating the Jacobian of the CR3BP and
orthogonalizing the tangent vectors via a well-established algorithm originally
developed by Wolf et al. The criterion for orbital stability based on the
Lyapunov exponents is independently verified by using power spectra. The
obtained results are compared to results presented in the two previous papers
of this series. It is shown that the maximum Lyapunov exponent can be used as
an indicator for chaotic behaviour of planetary orbits, which is consistent
with previous applications of this method, particularly studies for the Solar
System. The chaotic behaviour corresponds to either orbital stability or
instability, and it depends solely on the mass ratio of the binary components
and the initial distance ratio of the planet relative to the stellar separation
distance. Our theoretical results allow us to link the study of planetary
orbital stability to chaos theory noting that there is a large array of
literature on the properties and significance of Lyapunov exponents. Although
our results are given for the special case of the CR3BP, we expect that it may
be possible to augment the proposed Lyapunov exponent criterion to studies of
planets in generalized stellar binary systems, which is strongly motivated by
existing observational results as well as results expected from ongoing and
future planet search missions.