This paper is the first one in a series devoted to the study of the dynamics
of the atmospheres of long-period variable stars. Results from a two-month-long
monitoring of the Mira variables RT Cyg and X Oph around maximum light with the
ELODIE spectrograph at the Haute-Provence Observatory are presented. The
monitoring covers phases 0.80 to 1.16 for RT Cyg and phases 0.83 to 1.04 for X
Oph. The cross-correlation profile of the spectrum of RT Cyg with a K0 III mask
confirms that the absorption lines of RT Cyg in the optical domain appear
double around maximum light. No line doubling was found in the optical spectrum
of X Oph around maximum light, indicating that this feature is not common to
all long-period variables. This paper also presents the application to RT Cyg
of a new tomographic technique deriving the velocity field across the
atmosphere by cross-correlating the optical spectrum with numerical masks
constructed from synthetic spectra and probing layers of increasing depths.
This technique reveals that both the temporal evolution of the line doubling,
and its variation with depth in the atmosphere of RT Cyg, are consistent with
the ``Schwarzschild scenario''. This scenario relates the temporal evolution of
the red and blue peaks of the double absorption lines to the progression of a
shock wave in the atmosphere. The temporal evolution of the Balmer Halpha, H
beta, Hgamma and Hdelta emission lines around maximum light is also presented
for RT Cyg and X Oph. The velocity variations of Halpha and of the absorption
lines are discussed in the framework of two competing models for the formation
of Balmer emission lines in long-period variable stars.