We estimate the distribution of ejection velocities for the known population
of high galactic latitude runaway stars. The initial sample is a collection of
174 early-type stars selected from the literature. The stars are first
classified according to their evolutionary status in order to obtain a
homogeneous sample of 96 genuine main sequence stars. Their present velocities
and flight times are then estimated using proper motion data from various
astrometric catalogues (including Tycho-2, UCAC2, and USNO-B) and the ejection
velocities are computed by tracing their orbits back in time, based on a
galactic potential. The potential used is constructed from a mass density model
chosen to fit the most recent observational constraints. We find evidence for
two different populations of runaway stars: a "high" velocity population, with
a maximum ejection velocity of about 400 - 500 km/s, and a "low" velocity
population, with a maximum ejection velocity of about 300 km/s. We argue that
the observed limit of 500 km/s and the bimodality of the observed ejection
velocity distribution are natural consequences of the so-called Binary Ejection
Mechanism. We discuss the connection between the "high" velocity population and
the so-called hypervelocity stars, showing how previously studied hypervelocity
stars are consistent with the results obtained. We also find that some stars
that were once thought to be best explained as being formed in the Halo are
compatible with a runaway hypothesis once proper motions are included in the
analysis. However, three stars in the selected sample appear to be inconsistent
with ejection from the galactic disc. Possible scenarios are discussed,
including a possible formation in the galactic halo.