Context: HCOOH is one of the more common species in interstellar ices with
abundances of 1-5% with respect to solid H2O. Aims: This study aims at
characterizing the HCOOH spectral features in astrophysically relevant ice
mixtures in order to interpret astronomical data. Methods: The ices are grown
under high vacuum conditions and spectra are recorded in transmission using a
Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. Pure HCOOH ices deposited at 15 K and
145 K are studied, as well as binary and tertiary mixtures containing H2O, CO,
CO2 and CH3OH. The mixture concentrations are varied from 50:50% to ~10:90% for
HCOOH:H2O. Binary mixtures of HCOOH:X and tertiary mixtures of HCOOH:H2O:X with
X = CO, CO2, and CH3OH, are studied for concentrations of ~10:90% and
~7:67:26%, respectively. Results: Pure HCOOH ice spectra show broad bands which
split around 120 K due to the conversion of a dimer to a chain-structure. Broad
single component bands are found for mixtures with H2O. Additional spectral
components are present in mixtures with CO, CO2 and CH3OH. The resulting peak
position, full width at half maximum and band strength depend strongly on ice
structure, temperature, matrix constituents and the HCOOH concentration.
Comparison of the solid HCOOH 5.9, 7.2, and 8.1 micron features with
astronomical data toward the low mass source HH 46 and high mass source W 33A
shows that spectra of binary mixtures do not reproduce the observed ice
features. However, our tertiary mixtures especially with CH3OH match the
astronomical data very well. Thus interstellar HCOOH is most likely present in
tertiary or more complex mixtures with H2O, CH3OH and potentially also CO or
CO2, providing constraints on its formation.