We investigate hadron production as well as transverse hadron spectra in
nucleus-nucleus collisions from 2 $A\cdot$GeV to 21.3 $A\cdot$TeV within two
independent transport approaches (UrQMD and HSD) that are based on quark,
diquark, string and hadronic degrees of freedom. The comparison to experimental
data demonstrates that both approaches agree quite well with each other and
with the experimental data on hadron production. The enhancement of pion
production in central Au+Au (Pb+Pb) collisions relative to scaled $pp$
collisions (the 'kink') is well described by both approaches without involving
any phase transition. However, the maximum in the $K^+/\pi^+$ ratio at 20 to 30
A$\cdot$GeV (the 'horn') is missed by $\sim$ 40%. A comparison to the
transverse mass spectra from $pp$ and C+C (or Si+Si) reactions shows the
reliability of the transport models for light systems. For central Au+Au
(Pb+Pb) collisions at bombarding energies above $\sim$ 5 A$\cdot$GeV, however,
the measured $K^{\pm}$ $m_{T}$-spectra have a larger inverse slope parameter
than expected from the calculations. The approximately constant slope of
$K^\pm$ spectra at SPS (the 'step') is not reproduced either. Thus the pressure
generated by hadronic interactions in the transport models above $\sim$ 5
A$\cdot$GeV is lower than observed in the experimental data. This finding
suggests that the additional pressure - as expected from lattice QCD
calculations at finite quark chemical potential and temperature - might be
generated by strong interactions in the early pre-hadronic/partonic phase of
central Au+Au (Pb+Pb) collisions.