We propose a framework for constructing microscopic traffic models from
microscopic acceleration patterns that can in principle be experimental
measured and proper averaged. The exact model thus obtained can be used to
justify the consistency of various popular models in the literature. Assuming
analyticity of the exact model, we suggest that a controlled expansion around
the constant velocity, uniform headway "ground state" is the proper way of
constructing various different effective models. Assuming a unique ground state
for any fixed average density, we discuss the universal properties of the
resulting effective model, focusing on the emergent quantities of the coupled
non-linear ODEs. These include the maximum and minimum headway that give the
coexistence curve in the phase diagram, as well as an emergent intrinsic scale
that characterizes the strength of interaction between clusters, leading to
non-trivial cluster statistics when the unstable ground state is randomly
perturbed. Utilizing the universal properties of the emergent quantities, a
simple algorithm for constructing an effective traffic model is also presented.
The algorithm tunes the model with statistically well-defined quantities
extracted from the flow-density plot, and the resulting effective model
naturally captures and predicts many quantitative and qualitative empirical
features of the highway traffic, especially in the presence of an on-ramp
bottleneck. The simplicity of the effective model provides strong evidence that
stochasticity, diversity of vehicle types and modeling of complicated
individual driving behaviors are \emph{not} fundamental to many observations of
the complex spatiotemporal patterns in the real traffic dynamics. We also
propose the nature of the congested phase can be well characterized by the long
lasting transient states of the effective model, from which the wide moving
jams evolve.