We present radio observations of GRB980703 at 1.43, 4.86, and 8.46 GHz for
the period of 350 to 1000 days after the burst. These radio data clearly
indicate that there is a persistent source at the position of GRB980703 with a
flux density of approximately 70 $\mu$Jy at 1.43 GHz, and a spectral index,
$\beta\approx 0.32$, where $F_\nu\propto \nu^{-\beta}$. We show that emission
from the afterglow of GRB980703 is expected to be one to two orders of
magnitude fainter, and therefore cannot account for these observations. We
interpret this persistent emission as coming from the host galaxy --- the first
example of a gamma-ray burst (GRB) host detection at radio wavelengths. We show
that emission from an AGN is unlikely, and find that it can be explained as a
result of a star-formation rate (SFR) of massive stars (M>5M$_\odot$) of 90
M$_\odot$/yr, which gives a total SFR of $\approx 500$ M$_\odot$/yr. Using the
correlation between the radio and far-IR (FIR) luminosities of star-forming
galaxies, we find that the host of GRB980703 is at the faint end of the class
of Ultra Luminous Infrared Galaxies (ULIRGs), with L_{FIR}\sim few\times
10^{12} L$_\odot$. From the radio measurements of the offset between the burst
and the host, and the size of the host, we conclude that GRB980703 occurred
near the center of the galaxy in a region of maximum star formation. A
comparison of the properties of this galaxy with radio and optical surveys at a
similar redshift ($z\approx 1$) reveals that the host of GRB980703 is an
average star-forming galaxy. This result has significant implications for the
potential use of a GRB-selected galaxy sample for the study of galaxies and the
IGM at high redshifts.