XTE J1818-245 is an X-ray nova that experienced an outburst in 2005, first
seen by the RXTE satellite. The source was observed simultaneously at various
wavelengths up to soft gamma-rays with the INTEGRAL satellite, from 2005
February to September. X-ray novae are extreme systems that often harbor a
black hole, and are known to emit throughout the electromagnetic spectrum when
in outburst. We analyzed radio, (N)IR, optical, X-ray and soft gamma-ray
observations and constructed simultaneous broad-band X-ray spectra. Analyzing
both the light curves in various energy ranges and the hardness-intensity
diagram enabled us to study the long-term behavior of the source. Spectral
parameters were typical of the Soft Intermediate States and the High Soft
States of a black hole candidate. The source showed relatively small spectral
variations in X-rays with considerable flux variation in radio. Spectral
studies showed that the accretion disc cooled down from 0.64 to 0.27 keV in 100
days and that the total flux decreased while the relative flux of the hot
medium increased. Radio emission was detected several times, and,
interestingly, five days after entering the HSS. Modeling the spectral energy
distribution from the radio to the soft gamma-rays reveals that the radio
flares arise from several ejection events. XTE J1818-245 is likely a black hole
candidate transient source that might be closer than the Galactic Bulge. The
results from the data analysis trace the physical changes that took place in
the system at a maximum bolometric luminosity of (0.4-0.9)e38 erg/s (assuming a
distance between 2.8-4.3 kpc) and they are discussed within the context of disc
and jet models.