POINT-AGAPE is an Anglo-French collaboration which is employing the Isaac
Newton Telescope (INT) to conduct a pixel-lensing survey towards M31. In this
paper we investigate what we can learn from pixel-lensing observables about the
MACHO mass and fractional contribution in M31 and the Galaxy for the case of
spherically-symmetric near-isothermal haloes. We employ detailed pixel-lensing
simulations which include many of the factors which affect the observables. For
a maximum MACHO halo we predict an event rate in V of up to 100 per season for
M31 and 40 per season for the Galaxy. However, the Einstein radius crossing
time is generally not measurable and the observed full-width half-maximum
duration provides only a weak tracer of lens mass. Nonetheless, we find that
the near-far asymmetry in the spatial distribution of M31 MACHOs provides
significant information on their mass and density contribution. We present a
likelihood estimator for measuring the fractional contribution and mass of both
M31 and Galaxy MACHOs which permits an unbiased determination to be made of
MACHO parameters, even from data-sets strongly contaminated by variable stars.
If M31 does not have a significant population of MACHOs in the mass range
0.001-1 Solar masses strong limits will result from the first season of INT
observations. Simulations based on currently favoured density and mass values
indicate that, after three seasons, the M31 MACHO parameters should be
constrained to within a factor four uncertainty in halo fraction and an order
of magnitude uncertainty in mass (90% confidence). Interesting constraints on
Galaxy MACHOs may also be possible. For a campaign lasting ten years,
comparable to the lifetime of current LMC surveys, reliable estimates of MACHO
parameters in both galaxies should be possible. (Abridged)