Mechanical forces acting on cell adhesion receptor proteins regulate a range
of cellular functions by formation and rupture of non-covalent interactions
with ligands. Typically, force decreases the lifetimes of intact complexes
(slip-bonds), making the discovery that these lifetimes can also be prolonged
("catch-bonds"), a surprise. We created a microscopic analytic theory by
incorporating the structures of selectin and integrin receptors into a
conceptual framework based on the theory of stochastic equations, which
quantitatively explains a wide range of experimental data (including
catch-bonds at low forces and slip-bonds at high forces). Catch-bonds arise due
to force-induced remodeling of hydrogen bond networks, a finding that also
accounts for unbinding in structurally unrelated integrin-fibronectin and
actomyosin complexes. For the selectin family, remodeling of hydrogen bond
networks drives an allosteric transition resulting in the formation of maximum
number of hydrogen bonds determined only by the structure of the receptor and
is independent of the ligand. A similar transition allows us to predict the
increase in number of hydrogen bonds in a particular allosteric state of
$\alpha_5 \beta_1$ integrin-fibronectin complex, a conformation which is yet to
be crystallized. We also make a testable prediction that a single point
mutation (Tyr51Phe) in the ligand associated with selectin should dramatically
alter the nature of the catch-bond compared to the wild type. Our work suggests
that nature utilizes a ductile network of hydrogen bonds to engineer function
over a broad range of forces.