A cubic graph $G$ is cyclically 5-connected if $G$ is simple, 3-connected,
has at least 10 vertices and for every set $F$ of edges of size at most four,
at most one component of $G\backslash F$ contains circuits. We prove that if
$G$ and $H$ are cyclically 5-connected cubic graphs and $H$ topologically
contains $G$, then either $G$ and $H$ are isomorphic, or (modulo well-described
exceptions) there exists a cyclically 5-connected cubic graph $G'$ such that
$H$ topologically contains $G'$ and $G'$ is obtained from $G$ in one of the
following two ways. Either $G'$ is obtained from $G$ by subdividing two
distinct edges of $G$ and joining the two new vertices by an edge, or $G'$ is
obtained from $G$ by subdividing each edge of a circuit of length five and
joining the new vertices by a matching to a new circuit of length five disjoint
from $G$ in such a way that the cyclic orders of the two circuits agree. We
prove a companion result, where by slightly increasing the connectivity of $H$
we are able to eliminate the second construction. We also prove versions of
both of these results when $G$ is almost cyclically 5-connected in the sense
that it satisfies the definition except for 4-edge cuts such that one side is a
circuit of length four. In this case $G'$ is required to be almost cyclically
5-connected and to have fewer circuits of length four than $G$. In particular,
if $G$ has at most one circuit of length four, then $G'$ is required to be
cyclically 5-connected. However, in this more general setting the operations
describing the possible graphs $G'$ are more complicated.