(Abridged) We derive the structure of the Galactic stellar Warp and Flare
using 2MASS RC and RGB stars, selected at mean heliocentric distances of 3, 7
and 17 kpc.
  Our results are: (i) a clear stellar warp signature is derived for the 3
selected rings; (ii) the derived stellar warp is consistent (both in amplitude
and phase-angle) with that for the Galactic interstellar dust and HI gas; (iii)
the Sun seems not to fall on the line of nodes. The stellar warp phase-angle
orientation (+15 degrees) is close to the orientation angle of the Galactic bar
and this produces an asymmetric warp for the inner rings; (iv) a
Northern/Southern warp symmetry is observed only for the ring at 17 kpc; (v)
treating a mixture of thin and thick disk populations we trace the disk flaring
and derive a constant scale-height (~0.65 kpc) within R(GC)~15 kpc. Further
out, the disk flaring increase gradually reaching a mean scale-height of ~1.5
kpc at R(GC)~23 kpc; and (vi) these results provide further robust evidence
that there is no disk radial truncation at R(GC)~14 kpc.
  In the particular case of the Canis Major over-density we confirm its
coincidence with the Southern stellar maximum warp occurring near l=240. We
present evidence to conclude that all observed parameters (e.g. number density,
radial velocities, proper motion etc) of CMa are consistent with it being a
normal Milky Way outer-disk population, thereby leaving no justification for a
more complex interpretations of its origin. The present analysis does not
provide a conclusive test of the structure or origin of the Monoceros Ring.
Nevertheless, we show that a warped flared Milky Way contributes significantly
at the locations of the Monoceros Ring.