Properties of bars and bulges in the Hubble sequence are discussed, based on
the analysis of 216 disk galaxies (S0s and spirals from NIRS0S and OSUBGS
surveys, respectively). For that purpose we have collected together, and
completed when necessary, the various analysis we have previously made
separately for early and late types. We find strong photometric and kinematic
evidence of pseudobulges in the S0-S0/a galaxies: their bulges are on average
fairly exponential, inner disks are common (in 56%), and in many of the
galaxies the bulges are rotationally supported. This would be difficult to
understand in such gas poor galaxies as in S0s, if these pseudobulge candidates
were formed by star formation in the disk in a a similar manner as in spirals.
A more likely explanation is that pseudobulges in the early-type galaxies are
bar-related structures, connected to the evolution of bars, which
interpretation is supported by our Fourier analysis and structural
decompositions. Bars in the early-type galaxies are found to have many
characteristics of evolved systems: (1) they have flat-top/double peaked
Fourier amplitude profiles, (2) bars have typically sharp outer cut-offs, (3)
the higher Fourier modes appear in the amplitude profiles, and (4) many bars
have also ansae-type morphologies. We show the distributions of bar strength in
different Hubble type bins using four bar strength indicators, $Q_g$, $A_2$,
$f_{bar}$ and the bar length, which are expected to give important clues for
understanding the mechanism of how bars evolve.