We propose a spectral quark model which can be applied to low energy hadronic
physics. The approach is based on a generalization of the Lehmann
representation of the quark propagator. We work at the one-quark-loop level.
Electromagnetic and chiral invariance are ensured with help of the gauge
technique which provides particular solutions to the Ward-Takahashi identities.
General conditions on the quark spectral function follow from natural physical
requirements. In particular, the function is normalized, its all positive
moments must vanish, while the physical observables depend on negative moments
and the so-called log-moments. As a consequence, the model is made finite,
dispersion relations hold, chiral anomalies are preserved, and the twist
expansion is free from logarithmic scaling violations, as requested of a
low-energy model. We study a variety of processes and show that the framework
is very simple and practical. Finally, incorporating the idea of vector-meson
dominance, we present an explicit construction of the quark spectral function
which satisfies all the requirements. The corresponding momentum representation
of the resulting quark propagator exhibits only cuts on the physical axis, with
no poles present anywhere in the complex momentum space. The momentum-dependent
quark mass compares very well to recent lattice calculations. A large number of
predictions and relations can be deduced from our approach for such quantities
as the pion light-cone wave function, non-local quark condensate, pion
transition form factor, pion valence parton distribution function, etc.