A simple extension of the minimal supersymmetric standard model which
naturally and simultaneously solves the strong CP and mu problems via a
Peccei-Quinn and a continuous R symmetry is considered. This model is
supplemented with hybrid inflation and leptogenesis, but without taking the
specific details of these scenarios. It is shown that the Peccei-Quinn field
can successfully act as a curvaton generating the total curvature perturbation
in the universe in accord with the cosmic background explorer measurements. A
crucial phenomenon, which assists us to achieve this, is the "tachyonic
amplification" of the perturbation acquired by this field during inflation if
the field, in its subsequent evolution, happens to be stabilized for a while
near a maximum of the potential. In this case, the contribution of the field to
the total energy density is also enhanced ("tachyonic effect"), which helps
too. The cold dark matter in the universe consists, in this model, mainly of
axions which carry an isocurvature perturbation uncorrelated with the total
curvature perturbation. There are also lightest sparticles (neutralinos) which,
like the baryons, originate from the inflationary reheating and, thus, acquire
an isocurvature perturbation fully correlated with the curvature perturbation.
So, the overall isocurvature perturbation has a mixed correlation with the
adiabatic one. It is shown that the presently available bound on such an
isocurvature perturbation from cosmic microwave background radiation and other
data is satisfied. Also, the constraint on the non-Gaussianity of the curvature
perturbation obtained from the recent Wilkinson microwave anisotropy probe data
is fulfilled thanks to the "tachyonic effect".