Transport properties of single-layer graphene with correlated one-dimensional
defects are studied using the time-dependent real-space Kubo-Greenwood
formalism. Such defects are present in epitaxial graphene, comprising atomic
terraces and steps due to the substrate morphology, and in polycrystalline
chemically-vapor-deposited (CVD) graphene due to the grain boundaries, composed
of a periodic array of dislocations, or quasi-periodic nanoripples originated
from the metal substrate. The extended line defects are described by the
long-range Lorentzian-type scattering potential. The dc conductivity is
calculated numerically for different cases of distribution of line defects.
This includes a random (uncorrelated) and a correlated distribution with a
prevailing direction in the orientation of lines. The anisotropy of the
conductivity along and across the line defects is revealed, which agrees with
experimental measurements for epitaxial graphene grown on SiC. We performed a
detailed study of the conductivity for different defect correlations,
introducing the correlation angle alpha_max (i.e. the maximum possible angle
between any two lines). We find that for a given electron density, the relative
enhancement of the conductivity for the case of fully correlated line defects
in comparison to the case of uncorrelated ones is larger for a higher defect
density. Finally, we study the conductivity of realistic samples where both
extended line defects as well as point-like scatterers such as adatoms and
charged impurities are presented.