In a previous work we introduced slice graphs as a way to specify both
infinite languages of directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) and infinite languages of
partial orders. Therein we focused on the study of Hasse diagram generators,
i.e., slice graphs that generate only transitive reduced DAGs, and showed that
they could be used to solve several problems related to the partial order
behavior of p/t-nets. In the present work we show that both slice graphs and
Hasse diagram generators are worth studying on their own. First, we prove that
any slice graph SG can be effectively transformed into a Hasse diagram
generator HG representing the same set of partial orders. Thus from an
algorithmic standpoint we introduce a method of transitive reducing infinite
families of DAGs specified by slice graphs. Second, we identify the class of
saturated slice graphs. By using our transitive reduction algorithm, we prove
that the class of partial order languages representable by saturated slice
graphs is closed under union, intersection and even under a suitable notion of
complementation (cut-width complementation). Furthermore partial order
languages belonging to this class can be tested for inclusion and admit
canonical representatives in terms of Hasse diagram generators. As an
application of our results, we give stronger forms of some results in our
previous work, and establish some unknown connections between the partial order
behavior of $p/t$-nets and other well known formalisms for the specification of
infinite families of partial orders, such as Mazurkiewicz trace languages and
message sequence chart (MSC) languages.