Recently proposed phase-field models offer self-consistent descriptions of
brittle fracture. Here, we analyze these theories in the quasistatic regime of
crack propagation. We show how to derive the laws of crack motion either by
using solvability conditions in a perturbative treatment for slight departure
from the Griffith threshold, or by generalizing the Eshelby tensor to
phase-field models. The analysis provides a simple physical interpretation of
the second component of the classic Eshelby integral in the limit of vanishing
crack propagation velocity: it gives the elastic torque on the crack tip that
is needed to balance the Herring torque arising from the anisotropic interface
energy. This force balance condition reduces in this limit to the principle of
local symmetry in isotropic media and to the principle of maximum energy
release rate for smooth curvilinear cracks in anisotropic media. It can also be
interpreted physically in this limit based on energetic considerations in the
traditional framework of continuum fracture mechanics, in support of its
general validity for real systems beyond the scope of phase-field models.
Analytical predictions of crack paths in anisotropic media are validated by
numerical simulations. Simulations also show that these predictions hold even
if the phase-field dynamics is modified to make the failure process
irreversible. In addition, the role of dissipative forces on the process zone
scale as well as the extension of the results to motion of planar cracks under
pure antiplane shear are discussed.