The modeling of high velocity impact into brittle or quasibrittle solids is
hampered by the unavailability of a constitutive model capturing the effects of
material comminution into very fine particles. The present objective is to
develop such a model, usable in finite element programs. The comminution at
very high strain rates can dissipate a large portion of the kinetic energy of
an impacting missile. The spatial derivative of the energy dissipated by
comminution gives a force resisting the penetration, which is superposed on the
nodal forces obtained from the static constitutive model in a finite element
program. The present theory is inspired partly by Grady's model for comminution
due to explosion inside a hollow sphere, and partly by analogy with turbulence.
In high velocity turbulent flow, the energy dissipation rate is enhanced by the
formation of micro-vortices (eddies) which dissipate energy by viscous shear
stress. Similarly, here it is assumed that the energy dissipation at fast
deformation of a confined solid gets enhanced by the release of kinetic energy
of the motion associated with a high-rate shear strain of forming particles.
For simplicity, the shape of these particles in the plane of maximum shear rate
is considered to be regular hexagons. The rate of release of free energy
density consisting of the sum of this energy and the fracture energy of the
interface between the forming particle is minimized. The particle sizes are
assumed to be distributed according to Schuhmann's power law. It is concluded
that the minimum particle size is inversely proportional to the (2/3)-power of
the shear strain rate, that the kinetic energy release is to proportional to
the (2/3)-power, and that the dynamic comminution creates an apparent material
viscosity inversely proportional to the (1/3)-power of the shear strain rate.