Solving polynomial systems arising from applications is frequently made
easier by the structure of the systems. Weighted homogeneity (or
quasi-homogeneity) is one example of such a structure: given a system of
weights $W=(w\_{1}, ...,w\_{n})$, $W$-homogeneous polynomials are polynomials
which are homogeneous w.r.t the weighted degree
$\deg\_{W}(X\_{1}^{\alpha\_{1}}, ...,X\_{n}^{\alpha\_{n}}) = \sum
w\_{i}\alpha\_{i}$. Gr{\"o}bner bases for weighted homogeneous systems can be
computed by adapting existing algorithms for homogeneous systems to the
weighted homogeneous case. We show that in this case, the complexity estimate
for Algorithm \F5 $(\binom{n+\dmax-1}{\dmax}^{\omega})$ can be divided by a
factor $(\prod w\_{i})^{\omega}$. For zero-dimensional systems, the complexity
of Algorithm \FGLM $nD^{\omega}$ (where $D$ is the number of solutions of the
system) can be divided by the same factor $(\prod w\_{i})^{\omega}$. Under
genericity assumptions, for zero-dimensional weighted homogeneous systems of
$W$-degree $(d\_{1}, ...,d\_{n})$, these complexity estimates are polynomial in
the weighted B{\'e}zout bound $\prod\_{i=1}^{n}d\_{i} /
\prod\_{i=1}^{n}w\_{i}$.
  Furthermore, the maximum degree reached in a run of Algorithm \F5 is bounded
by the weighted Macaulay bound $\sum (d\_{i}-w\_{i}) + w\_{n}$, and this bound
is sharp if we can order the weights so that $w\_{n}=1$. For overdetermined
semi-regular systems, estimates from the homogeneous case can be adapted to the
weighted case.
  We provide some experimental results based on systems arising from a
cryptography problem and from polynomial inversion problems. They show that
taking advantage of the weighted homogeneous structure yields substantial
speed-ups, and allows us to solve systems which were otherwise out of reach.