We propose the addition of a new "soft-collinear" mode in soft collinear
effective theory (SCET) below the usual soft scale to factorize and resum
logarithms of jet radii $R$ that confine energetic particles in jet cross
sections to regions characterized by a cutoff on their angle with the jet axis.
We consider exclusive 2-jet cross sections in $e^+e^-$ collisions with an
energy veto $\Lambda$ outside the jets. The key observation is that there are
actually two pairs of energy scales whose ratio is $R$: the transverse momentum
of the energetic particles inside the jet cones $QR$ and the total energy $Q$,
and also the transverse momentum $\Lambda R$ of soft particles with energy
$\Lambda$ that are cut \emph{out} of the jet cones. The soft-collinear mode is
necessary to factorize logarithms of the latter hierarchy of scales. We show
how this factorization occurs in the jet thrust cross section for cone and
$k_T$-type algorithms at $O(\alpha_s)$ and using the thrust cone algorithm at
$O(\alpha_s^2)$. We identify the presence of hard-collinear, in-jet soft,
global (veto) soft, and soft-collinear modes in the jet thrust cross section.
We also find the in-jet soft modes measured with thrust are actually "csoft"
modes. We go on to explain the relation between the "unmeasured" jet function
appearing in total exclusive jet cross sections and the hard-collinear and
csoft functions in measured jet thrust cross sections. We do not resum logs
that are non-global in origin, arising from the ratio of the scales of soft
radiation whose thrust is measured at $Q\tau/R$ and of the soft-collinear
radiation at $2\Lambda R$. Their resummation requires the introduction of
additional operators beyond those we consider here. The steps we outline here
are a necessary part of summing logs of $R$ that are global in nature and have
not been factorized and resummed beyond leading-log level previously.