(Abridged) Repeated imaging observations have been made of NGC 3627 with the
HST in 1997/98, over an interval of 58 days. Images were obtained on 12 epochs
in the F555W band and on five epochs in the F814W band. The galaxy hosted the
prototypical, `Branch normal', type Ia supernova SN 1989B. A total of 83
variables have been found, of which 68 are definite Cepheid variables with
periods ranging from 75 days to 3.85 days. The de-reddened distance modulus is
determined to be (m-M)_0= 30.22+/-0.12 (internal uncertainty) using a subset of
the Cepheid data whose reddening and error parameters are secure.
  The photometric data of Wells et al. (1994), combined with the Cepheid data
for NGC 3627 give M_B(max)= -19.36+/-0.18 and M_V(max)= -19.34+/-0.16 for SN
1989B. Combined with the previous six calibrations in this program, plus two
additional calibrations determined by others gives the mean absolute magnitudes
at maximum of <M_B>= -19.48+/-0.07 and <M_V>= -19.48 +/-0.07 for `Branch
normal' SNe Ia at this interim stage in the calibration program.
  The second parameter correlations of M(max) of blue SNe Ia with decay rate,
color at maximum, and Hubble type are re-investigated. The dependence of
<M(max)> on decay rate is non-linear, showing a minimum for decay rates between
1.0< Delta m_15 <1.6. Magnitudes corrected for decay rate show no dependence on
Hubble type, but a dependence on color remains. Correcting both the fiducial
sample of 34 SNe Ia with decay-rate data and the current 8 calibrating SNe Ia
for the correlation with decay rate as well as color gives H_0= 60+/-2
(internal) km/s/Mpc, in both B and V. The same value to within 4% is obtained
if only the SNe Ia in spirals (without second parameter corrections) are
considered.