To understand the bursting behavior of the microquasar GRS 1915+105, we
calculate time evolution of a luminous, optically thick accretion disk around a
stellar mass black hole undergoing limit-cycle oscillations between the high-
and low- luminosity states. We, especially, carefully solve the behavior of the
innermost part of the disk, since it produces significant number of photons
during the burst, and fit the theoretical spectra with the multi-color disk
model. The fitting parameters are $\Tin$ (the maximum disk temperature) and
$\Rin$ (the innermost radius of the disk). We find an abrupt, transient
increase in $\Tin$ and a temporary decrease in $\Rin$ during a burst, which are
actually observed in GRS 1915+105. The precise behavior is subject to the
viscosity prescription. We prescribe the radial-azimuthal component of
viscosity stress tensor to be $T_{r \phi}=-\alpha \Pi (p_{\rm gas}/p)^{\mu}$,
with $\Pi$ being the height integrated pressure, $\alpha$ and $\mu$ being the
parameter, and $p$ and $p_{\rm gas}$ being the total pressure and gas pressure
on the equatorial plane, respectively. Model with $\mu=0.1$ can produce the
overall time changes of $\Tin$ and $\Rin$, but cannot give an excellent fit to
the observed amplitudes. Model with $\mu=0.2$, on the other hand, gives the
right amplitudes, but the changes of $\Tin$ and $\Rin$ are smaller. Although
precise matching is left as future work, we may conclude that the basic
properties of the bursts of GRS 1915+105 can be explained by our ``limit-cycle
oscillation'' model. It is then required that the spectral hardening factor at
high luminosities should be about 3 at around the Eddington luminosity instead
of less than 2 as is usually assumed.