A new technique is presented for determining the black-hole masses of
high-redshift quasars from optical spectroscopy. The new method utilizes the
full-width half maximum (FWHM) of the low-ionization MgII emission line and the
correlation between broad-line region (BLR) radius and continuum luminosity at
3000 Angstroms. Using archival UV spectra it is found that the correlation
between BLR radius and 3000 Angstrom luminosity is tighter than the established
correlation with 5100 Angstrom luminosity. Furthermore, it is found that the
correlation between BLR radius and 3000 Ang luminosity is consistent with a
relation of the form $R_{BLR} \propto lambda L_{lambda}^{0.5}$, as expected for
a constant ionization parameter. Using a sample of objects with broad-line
radii determined from reverberation mapping it is shown that the FWHM of MgII
and H beta are consistent with following an exact one-to-one relation, as
expected if both H beta and MgII are emitted at the same radius from the
central ionizing source. The resulting virial black-hole mass estimator based
on rest-frame UV observables is shown to reproduce black-hole mass measurements
based on reverberation mapping to within a factor of 2.5 (1 sigma). Finally,
the new UV black-hole mass estimator is shown to produce identical results to
the established optical (H beta) estimator when applied to 128
intermediate-redshift (0.3<z<0.9) quasars drawn from the Large Bright Quasar
Survey and the radio-selected Molonglo quasar sample. We therefore conclude
that the new UV virial black-hole mass estimator can be reliably used to
estimate the black-hole masses of quasars from z~0.25 through to the peak epoch
of quasar activity at z~2.5 via optical spectroscopy alone.