We present a joint analysis of the power spectra of density fluctuations from
three independent cosmological redshift surveys; the PSCz galaxy catalog, the
APM galaxy cluster catalog and the Abell/ACO cluster catalog. Over the range
0.03 <= k <= 0.15 h/Mpc,the amplitudes of these three power spectra are related
through a simple linear biasing model with b = 1.5 and b = 3.6 for Abell/ACO
versus APM and Abell/ACO versus the PSCz respectively. Furthermore, the shape
of these power spectra are remarkably similar despite the fact that they are
comprised of significantly different objects (individual galaxies through to
rich clusters). Individually, each of these surveys show visible evidence for
``valleys'' in their power spectra. We use a newly developed statistical
technique called the False Discovery Rate, to show that these ``valleys'' are
statistically significant. One favored cosmological explanation for such
features in the power spectrum is the presence of a non-negligible baryon
fraction (Omega_b/Omega_m) in the Universe which causes acoustic oscillations
in the transfer function of adiabatic inflationary models. We have performed a
maximum-likelihood marginalization over four important cosmological parameters
of this model (Omega_m, Omega_b, n_s, H_o). We use a prior on H_0 = 69(+/-15),
and find Omega_mh^2 = 0.12(+0.03/-0.02), Omega_bh^2 =0.029(+0.011/-0.015), n_s
= 1.08^(+0.17/-0.20) (2 sigma confidence limits) which are fully consistent
with the favored values of these cosmological parameters from the recent Cosmic
Microwave Background (CMB) experiments. This agreement strongly suggests that
we have detected baryonic oscillations in the power spectrum of matter at a
level expected from a Cold Dark Matter model normalized to fit these CMB
measurements.