In this work, an $H_{\infty}$ performance fault recovery control problem for
a team of multi-agent systems that is subject to actuator faults is studied.
Our main objective is to design a distributed control reconfiguration strategy
such that a) in absence of disturbances the state consensus errors either
remain bounded or converge to zero asymptotically, b) in presence of actuator
fault the output of the faulty system behaves exactly the same as that of the
healthy system, and c) the specified $H_{\infty}$ performance bound is
guaranteed to be minimized in presence of bounded energy disturbances. The
gains of the reconfigured control laws are selected first by employing a
geometric approach where a set of controllers guarantees that the output of the
faulty agent imitates that of the healthy agent and the consensus achievement
objectives are satisfied. Next, the remaining degrees of freedom in the
selection of the control law gains are used to minimize the bound on a
specified $H_{\infty}$ performance index. The effects of uncertainties and
imperfections in the FDI module decision in correctly estimating the fault
severity as well as delays in invoking the reconfigured control laws are
investigated and a bound on the maximum tolerable estimation uncertainties and
time delays are obtained. Our proposed distributed and cooperative control
recovery approach is applied to a team of five autonomous underwater vehicles
to demonstrate its capabilities and effectiveness in accomplishing the overall
team requirements subject to various actuator faults, delays in invoking the
recovery control, fault estimation and isolation imperfections and
unreliabilities under variuos control recovery scenarios.