The primary dynamical Dirac relativistic effects can only be seen in
hydrogenic systems without the complications introduced by electron-electron
interactions in many-electron systems. They are known to be the
contraction-towards-the-origin of the electronic charge in hydrogenic systems
and the nodal disapearance (because of the raising of all the non-relativistic
minima) in the electron density of the excited states of these systems. In
addition we point out the (largely ignored) gradient reduction of the charge
density near and far the nucleus. In this work we quantify these effects by
means of single (Fisher information) and composite (Fisher-Shannon complexity
and plane, LMC complexity) information-theoretic measures. While the Fisher
information measures the gradient content of the density, the (dimensionless)
composite information-theoretic quantities grasp two-fold facets of the
electronic distribution: The Fisher-Shannon complexity measures the combined
balance of the gradient content and the total extent of the electronic charge,
and the LMC complexity quantifies the disequilibrium jointly with the spreading
of the density in the configuration space. Opposite to other complexity notions
(e.g., computational and algorithmic complexities), these two quantities
describe intrinsic properties of the system because they do not depend on the
context but they are functionals of the electron density. Moreover, they are
closely related to the intuitive notion of complexity because they are minimum
for the two extreme (or least complex) distributions of perfect order and
maximum disorder.