We have performed an analysis of case events and statistics of positive
ionospheric storms in the dayside region of the equatorial ionization anomaly
during recurrent geomagnetic storms (RGSs), which dominate in geomagnetic and
ionospheric conditions on the declining phase of solar activity in 2004 to
2008. It is shown that total electron content (TEC) has a tendency to minimize
before the beginning of RGSs and to peak 3 to 4 days after, i.e. on the RGS
recovery phase produced by high-intensity long-duration continuous auroral
activity. The maximum of TEC coincides with the maximum of solar wind velocity
within high-speed solar wind streams. An analysis of electron content vertical
profiles, derived from two independent methods using ionosondes and
COSMIC/FORMOSAT-3 radio occultation, showed that in the maximum of an
ionospheric storm on 28 March 2008, the F2 layer thickens, NmF2 increases by
~50% and hmF2 elevates by a few tens of kilometers. The response of positive
ionospheric storms to solar, heliospheric and geomagnetic drivers reveals a
prominent longitudinal asymmetry. In the longitudinal range from -90 deg to 90
deg, the solar illumination plays a major role, and in the range from 90 deg to
-120 deg, the influence of heliospheric and geomagnetic drivers becomes
significant. The highest correlations of the TEC enhancements with the
heliospheric and geomagnetic drivers were found during December - February
period (r increased from ~ 0.3 to ~0.5). We speculate that the dynamics
controlling this might result from an effect of solar zenith angle, storm-time
effects of thermospheric Sum(O/N2) enhancement, and penetrating electric fields
of interplanetary and magnetospheric origin.