The role that grain boundary (GB) structure plays on the plasticity of
interfaces with preexisting cracks and on the interface crack dynamics was
investigated using MD for both <100> and <110> aluminum STGBs. In simulations
with a crack at the interface, this research shows how the maximum normal
strength of the interface correlates with the respective GB energy, the GB
misorientation, and the GB structural description. For instance, the normal
interface strength for GBs containing D structural unit (SU) or stacking faults
in the GB structural description ({\Sigma}13 (510) {\theta}=22.6{\deg} and
{\Sigma}97 (940) {\theta}=47.9{\deg}) shows a noticeable decrease in interface
strength, as compared to other evaluated <100> GBs that contained favored SUs.
In the case of <110> interfaces, the presence of the E SU in the GB structure
lowers the maximum normal interface strength by 35%. Further investigation of
the deformation at the crack tip in GBs containing the E structure revealed
that the E SU underwent atomic shuffling to accommodate intrinsic stacking
faults (ISFs) along the interface, which in turn acts as a site for partial
dislocation nucleation. Interestingly, regardless of GB misorientation, GB
interfaces examined here containing the E structure in their structural period
exhibited relatively small variation in maximum normal strength of interface.
The GB volume ahead of the crack tip underwent structural rearrangement which,
in turn, influenced the crack propagation mechanism. In most GBs, the crack
propagation was due to alternating mechanisms of dislocation emission, followed
by propagation of dislocation (blunting) and cleavage/crack advance. Moreover,
the crack growth rates along the GB interface were strongly influenced by the
initial free volume at the interface, i.e., faster crack growth was observed
along interfaces with higher initial free volume.