The extragalactic gamma-ray sky is dominated by the emission arising from
blazars, one of the most peculiar classes of radio-loud active galaxies. Since
the launch of Fermi several methods were developed to search for blazars as
potential counterparts of unidentified gamma-ray sources (UGSs). To confirm the
nature of the selected candidates, optical spectroscopic observations are
necessary. In 2013 we started a spectroscopic campaign to investigate gamma-ray
blazar candidates selected according to different procedures. The main goals of
our campaign are: 1) to confirm the nature of these candidates, and 2) whenever
possible determine their redshifts. Optical spectroscopic observations will
also permit us to verify the robustness of the proposed associations and check
for the presence of possible source class contaminants to our counterpart
selection. This paper reports the results of observations carried out in 2014
in the Northern hemisphere with Kitt Peak National Observatory (KPNO) and in
the Southern hemisphere with the Southern Astrophysical Research (SOAR)
telescopes. We also report three sources observed with the Magellan and Palomar
telescopes. Our selection of blazar-like sources that could be potential
counterparts of UGSs is based on their peculiar IR colors and on their
combination with radio observations both at high and low frequencies (i.e.,
above and below ~ 1 GHz) in publicly available large radio surveys. We present
the optical spectra of 27 objects. [....] We also report the case for WISE
J173052.85-035247.2, candidate counterpart of the source 2FGL J1730.6-0353,
which has no radio counterpart in the major radio surveys. We confirm that our
selection of gamma-ray blazars candidates can successfully indentify low-energy
counterparts to Fermi unassociated sources and allow us to discover new
blazars.