We perform fully general relativistic simulations of rotating stellar core
collapse in three spatial dimension. A parametric equation of state is adopted
following Dimmelmeier et al. The early stage of the collapse is followed by an
axisymmetric code. When the stellar core becomes compact enough, we start a
3-dimensional simulation adding a bar-mode nonaxisymmetric density
perturbation. In the axisymmetric simulations, it is clarified that the maximum
value of $\beta \equiv T/W$ achieved during the stellar collapse and depends
sensitively on the velocity profile and total mass of the initial core, and
equations of state. It is also found that for all the models with high degree
of differential rotation, a funnel structure is formed around the rotational
axis after the formation of neutron stars. For selected models in which the
maximum value of $\beta$ is larger than $\sim 0.27$, 3-dimensional simulations
are performed. It is found that the bar-mode dynamical instability sets in for
the case that the following conditions are satisfied: (i) the progenitor should
be rapidly rotating with the initial value of $0.01 \alt \beta \alt 0.02$, (ii)
the degree of differential rotation of the initial condition should be
sufficiently high, and (iii) a depletion factor of pressure in an early stage
of collapse should be large enough to induce a significant contraction for
which an efficient spin-up can be achieved. As a result of the onset of the
bar-mode dynamical instabilities, the amplitude of gravitational waves can be
by a factor of $\sim 10$ larger than that in the axisymmetric collapse. It is
found that a dynamical instability with the $m=1$ mode is also induced, but the
perturbation does not grow significantly and, hence, it does not contribute to
an outstanding amplification of gravitational waves.