It's well-known that in a traditional discrete-time autonomous linear
systems, the eigenvalues of the weigth (system) matrix solely determine the
stability of the system. If the spectral radius of the system matrix is larger
than 1, then the system is unstable. In this paper, we examine the linear
systems with symmetric weight matrix whose spectral radius is larger than 1.
The contributor introduced a dynamic-system-version of "Signal-to-Interference Ratio
(SIR)" in nonlinear networks in [7] and [8] and in continuous-time linear
networks in [9]. Using the same "SIR" concept, we, in this paper, analyse the
"SIR" of the states in the following two $N$-dimensional discrete-time
autonomous linear systems: 1) The system ${\mathbf x}(k+1) = \big({\bf I} +
\alpha (-r {\bf I} + {\bf W}) \big) {\mathbf x}(k)$ which is obtained by
discretizing the autonomous continuous-time linear system in \cite{Uykan09a}
using Euler method; where ${\bf I}$ is the identity matrix, $r$ is a positive
real number, and $\alpha >0$ is the step size. 2) A more general autonomous
linear system descibed by ${\mathbf x}(k+1) = -\rho {\mathbf I + W} {\mathbf
x}(k)$, where ${\mathbf W}$ is any real symmetric matrix whose diagonal
elements are zero, and ${\bf I}$ denotes the identity matrix and $\rho$ is a
positive real number. Our analysis shows that: 1) The "SIR" of any state
converges to a constant value, called "Ultimate SIR", in a finite time in the
above-mentioned discrete-time linear systems. 2) The "Ultimate SIR" in the
first system above is equal to $\frac{\rho}{\lambda_{max}}$ where
$\lambda_{max}$ is the maximum (positive) eigenvalue of the matrix ${\bf W}$.
These results are in line with those of \cite{Uykan09a} where corresponding
continuous-time linear system is examined. 3) The "Ultimate SIR" ...