We consider positive covering integer programs, which generalize set cover
and which have attracted a long line of research developing (randomized)
approximation algorithms. Srinivasan (2006) gave a rounding algorithm based on
the FKG inequality for systems which are "column-sparse." This algorithm may
return an integer solution in which the variables get assigned large (integral)
values; Kolliopoulos & Young (2005) modified this algorithm to limit the
solution size, at the cost of a worse approximation ratio. We develop a new
rounding scheme based on the Partial Resampling variant of the Lov\'{a}sz Local
Lemma developed by Harris \& Srinivasan (2013). This achieves an approximation
ratio of $1 + \frac{\ln (\Delta_1+1)}{a} + O(\sqrt{ \frac{\log
(\Delta_1+1)}{a}} )$, where $a$ is the minimum covering constraint and
$\Delta_1$ is the maximum $\ell_1$-norm of any column of the covering matrix
(whose entries are scaled to lie in $[0,1]$); we also show nearly-matching
inapproximability and integrality-gap lower bounds.
  Our approach improves asymptotically, in several different ways, over known
results. First, it replaces $\Delta_0$, the maximum number of nonzeroes in any
column (from the result of Srinivasan) by $\Delta_1$ which is always -- and can
be much -- smaller than $\Delta_0$; this is the first such result in this
context. Second, our algorithm automatically handles multi-criteria programs;
we achieve improved approximation ratios compared to the algorithm of
Srinivasan, and give, for the first time when the number of objective functions
is large, polynomial-time algorithms with good multi-criteria approximations.
We also significantly improve upon the upper-bounds of Kolliopoulos & Young
when the integer variables are required to be within $(1 + \epsilon)$ of some
given upper-bounds, and show nearly-matching inapproximability.