The gamma-ray light curves and spectra are presented for a set of theoretical
Type Ia supernova models including deflagration, detonation, delayed
detonation, and pulsating delayed detonations of Chandrasekhar mass white
dwarfs as well as merger scenarios that may involve more than the Chandrasekhar
mass and helium detonations of sub-Chandrasekhar mass white dwarfs. The results
have been obtained with a Monte Carlo radiation transport scheme which takes
into account all relevant gamma-transitions and interaction processes. The
result is a set of accurate line profiles which are characteristic of the
initial Ni-mass distribution of the supernova models. The gamma-rays probe the
isotopic rather than just the elemental distribution of the radioactive
elements in the ejecta. Details of the line profiles including the line width,
shift with respect to the rest frame, and line ratios are discussed. With
sufficient energy and temporal resolution, different model scenarios can
clearly be distinguished. Observational strategies are discussed for current
and immediately upcoming generations of satellites (CGRO and INTEGRAL) as well
as projected future missions including concepts such as Laue telescopes. With
CGRO, it is currently possible with sufficiently early observations (near
optical maximum) to distinguish helium detonations from explosions of
Chandrasekhar mass progenitors and of those involving mergers up to a distance
of about 15 Mpc. This translates into one target of opportunity every eight
years. SNe Ia up to about 10 Mpc would allow detailed CGRO studies of line
ratios of Co lines.