We compute the acceleration on the Local Group using 11206 IRAS galaxies from
the recently completed all-sky PSCz redshift survey. Measuring the acceleration
vector in redshift space generates systematic uncertainties due to the redshift
space distortions in the density field. We therefore assign galaxies to their
real space positions by adopting a non-parametric model for the velocity field
that solely relies on the linear gravitational instability and linear biasing
hypotheses. Remaining systematic contributions to the measured acceleration
vector are corrected for by using PSCz mock catalogues from N-body experiments.
The resulting acceleration vector points approx. 15 degrees away from the CMB
dipole apex, with a remarkable alignment between small and large scale
contributions. A considerable fraction of the measured acceleration is
generated within 40 h-1 Mpc with a non-negligible contribution from scales
between 90 and 140 h-1 Mpc after which the acceleration amplitude seems to have
converged. The local group acceleration from PSCz appears to be consistent with
the one determined from the IRAS 1.2 Jy galaxy catalogue once the different
contributions from shot noise have been taken into account. The results are
consistent with the gravitational instability hypothesis and do not indicate
any strong deviations from the linear biasing relation on large scales. A
maximum-likelihood analysis of the comulative PSCz dipole is performed within a
radius of 150 h-1 Mpc in which we account for nonlinear effects, shot noise and
finite sample size. We obtain \beta = 0.70 (+ 0.35)(-0.2) at 1 \sigma
confidence level.