Growing evidence suggests that the first generation of stars may have been
quite massive (~100-300 M_sun). Could these stars have left a distinct
nucleosynthetic signature? We explore the nucleosynthesis of helium cores in
the mass range M_He=64 to 133 Msun, corresponding to main-sequence star masses
of approximately 140 to 260 M_sun. Above M_He=133 M_sun, without rotation and
using current reaction rates, a black hole is formed and no nucleosynthesis is
ejected. For lighter helium core masses, ~40 to 63 M_sun, violent pulsations
occur, induced by the pair instability and accompanied by supernova-like mass
ejection, but the star eventually produces a large iron core in hydrostatic
equilibrium. It is likely that this core, too, collapses to a black hole, thus
cleanly separating the heavy element nucleosynthesis of pair instability
supernovae from those of other masses, both above and below. Indeed, black hole
formation is a likely outcome for all Population III stars with main sequence
masses between about 25 M_sun and 140 M_sun (M_He = 9 to 63 M_sun) as well as
those above 260 M_sun. Nucleosynthesis in pair-instability supernovae varies
greatly with the mass of the helium core which determines the maximum
temperature reached during the bounce. At the upper range of exploding core
masses, a maximum of 57 M_sun of Ni56 is produced making these the most
energetic and the brightest thermonuclear explosions in the universe.
Integrating over a distribution of masses, we find that pair instability
supernovae produce a roughly solar distribution of nuclei having even nuclear
charge, but are remarkably deficient in producing elements with odd nuclear
charge. Also, essentially no elements heavier than zinc are produced due to a
lack of s- and r-processes.