We present HST ultraviolet spectroscopy of the white dwarfs PG0843+516,
PG1015+161, SDSS1228+1040, and GALEX1931+0117, which accrete circumstellar
planetary debris formed from the destruction of asteroids. Combined with
optical data, a minimum of five and a maximum of eleven different metals are
detected in their photospheres. With metal sinking time scales of only a few
days, these stars are in accretion/diffusion equilibrium, and the photospheric
abundances closely reflect those of the circumstellar material. We find C/Si
ratios that are consistent with that of the bulk Earth, corroborating the rocky
nature of the debris. Their C/O values are also very similar to those of bulk
Earth, implying that the planetary debris is dominated by Mg and Fe silicates.
The abundances found for the debris at the four white dwarfs show substantial
diversity, comparable at least to that seen across different meteorite classes
in the solar system. PG0843+516 exhibits significant over-abundances of Fe and
Ni, as well as of S and Cr, which suggests the accretion of material that has
undergone melting, and possibly differentiation. PG1015+161 stands out by
having the lowest Si abundance relative to all other detected elements. The
Al/Ca ratio of the planetary debris around different white dwarfs is remarkably
similar. This is analogous to the nearly constant abundance ratio of these two
refractory lithophile elements found among most bodies in the solar system.
Based on the detection of all major elements of the circumstellar debris, we
calculate accretion rates of ~1.7e8g/s ~1.5e9g/s. We detect additional
circumstellar absorption in the SiIV 1394,1403 doublet in PG0843+516 and
SDSS1228+1040, reminiscent to similar high-ionisation lines seen in white
dwarfs in cataclysmic variables. We suspect that these lines originate in hot
gas close to the white dwarf, well within the sublimation radius.