Processes such as the solar wind sputtering and micrometeorite impacts can
modify optical properties of surfaces of airless bodies. This explains why
spectra of the main belt asteroids, exposed to these `space weathering'
processes over eons, do not match the laboratory spectra of ordinary chondrite
(OC) meteorites. In contrast, an important fraction of Near Earth Asteroids
(NEAs), defined as Q-types in the asteroid taxonomy, display spectral
attributes that are a good match to OCs. Here we study the possibility that the
Q-type NEAs underwent recent encounters with the terrestrial planets and that
the tidal gravity (or other effects) during these encounters exposed fresh OC
material on the surface (thus giving it the Q-type spectral properties). We
used numerical integrations to determine the statistics of encounters of NEAs
to planets. The results were used to calculate the fraction and orbital
distribution of Q-type asteroids expected in the model as a function of the
space weathering timescale, t_sw (see main text for definition), and maximum
distance, r*, at which planetary encounters can reset the surface. We found
that t_sw ~ 1e6 yr (at 1 AU) and r* ~ 5 R_pl, where R_pl is the planetary
radius, best fit the data. Values t_sw < 1e5 yr would require that r* > 20
R_pl, which is probably implausible because these very distant encounters
should be irrelevant. Also, the fraction of Q-type NEAs would be probably much
larger than the one observed if t_sw > 1e7 yr. We found that t_sw ~ q^2, where
q is the perihelion distance, expected if the solar wind sputtering controls
t_sw, provides a better match to the orbital distribution of Q-type NEAs than
models with fixed t_sw. We also discuss how the Earth magnetosphere and
radiation effects such as YORP can influence the spectral properties of NEAs.