Electron acceleration to non-thermal, ultra-relativistic energies (~ 10-100
TeV) is revealed by radio and X-ray observations of shocks in young supernova
remnants (SNRs). The diffusive shock acceleration (DSA) mechanism is usually
invoked to explain this acceleration, but the way in which electrons are
initially energized or 'injected' into this acceleration process starting from
thermal energies is an unresolved problem. In this paper we study the initial
acceleration of electrons in non-relativistic shocks from first principles,
using two- and three-dimensional particle-in-cell (PIC) plasma simulations. We
systematically explore the space of shock parameters (the Alfv\'enic Mach
number, M_A, the shock velocity, v_{sh}, the angle between the upstream
magnetic field and the shock normal, theta_{Bn}, and the ion to electron mass
ratio, m_i/m_e). We find that significant non-thermal acceleration occurs due
to the growth of oblique whistler waves in the foot of quasi-perpendicular
shocks. The obtained electron energy distributions show power law tails with
spectral indices up to alpha ~ 3-4. The maximum energies of the accelerated
particles are consistent with the electron Larmor radii being comparable to
that of the ions, indicating potential injection into the subsequent DSA
process. This injection mechanism, however, requires the shock waves to have
fairly low Alf\'enic Mach numbers, M_A <~ 20, which is consistent with the
theoretical conditions for the growth of whistler waves in the shock foot (M_A
<~ (m_i/m_e)^{1/2}). Thus, if the whistler mechanism is the only robust
electron injection process at work in SNR shocks, then SNRs that display
non-thermal emission must have significantly amplified upstream magnetic
fields. Such field amplification is likely achieved by the escaping cosmic
rays, so electron and proton acceleration in SNR shocks must be interconnected.