The availability of asteroseismic constraints for a large sample of stars
from the missions CoRoT and Kepler paves the way for various statistical
studies of the seismic properties of stellar populations. In this paper, we
evaluate the impact of rotation-induced mixing and thermohaline instability on
the global asteroseismic parameters at different stages of the stellar
evolution from the Zero Age Main Sequence to the Thermally Pulsating Asymptotic
Giant Branch to distinguish stellar populations. We present a grid of stellar
evolutionary models for four metallicities (Z = 0.0001, 0.002, 0.004, and
0.014) in the mass range between 0.85 to 6.0 Msun. The models are computed
either with standard prescriptions or including both thermohaline convection
and rotation-induced mixing. For the whole grid we provide the usual stellar
parameters (luminosity, effective temperature, lifetimes, ...), together with
the global seismic parameters, i.e. the large frequency separation and
asymptotic relations, the frequency corresponding to the maximum oscillation
power {\nu}_{max}, the maximal amplitude A_{max}, the asymptotic period spacing
of g-modes, and different acoustic radii. We discuss the signature of
rotation-induced mixing on the global asteroseismic quantities, that can be
detected observationally. Thermohaline mixing whose effects can be identified
by spectroscopic studies cannot be caracterized with the global seismic
parameters studied here. But it is not excluded that individual mode
frequencies or other well chosen asteroseismic quantities might help
constraining this mixing.