We computed the spatial velocities and the galactic orbital elements using
Hipparcos data for 77 nearest main-sequence F-G-stars with published the iron,
magnesium, and europium abundances determined from high dispersion spectra and
with the ages estimated from theoretical isochrones. A comparison with the
orbital elements of the globular clusters that are known was accreted by our
Galaxy in the past reveals stars of extragalactic origin. We show that the
relative elemental abundance ratios of r- and \alpha- elements in all the
accreted stars differ sharply from those in the stars that are genetically
associated with the Galaxy. According to current theoretical models, europium
is produced mainly in low mass Type II supernovae (SNe II), while magnesium is
synthesized in larger amounts in high mass SN II progenitors. Since all the old
accreted stars of our sample exhibit a significant Eu overabundance relative to
Mg, we conclude that the maximum masses of the SNII progenitors outside the
Galaxy were much lower than those inside it are. On the other hand, only a
small number of young accreted stars exhibit low negative ratios $[Eu/Mg] < 0$.
The delay of primordial star formation burst and the explosions of high mass
SNe II in a relatively small part of extragalactic space can explain this
situation. We provide evidence that the interstellar medium was weakly mixed at
the early evolutionary stages of the Galaxy formed from a single proto-galactic
cloud and that the maximum mass of the SN II progenitors increased in it with
time simultaneously with the increase in mean metallicity.