We have analysed the combined Greenwich and Solar Optical Observing Network
(SOON) sunspot group data during the period of 1874-2011 and determined
variations in the annual numbers (counts) of the small, large and big sunspot
groups (these classifications are made on the basis of the maximum areas of the
sunspot groups). We found that the amplitude of an even-numbered cycle of the
number of large groups is smaller than that of its immediately following
odd-numbered cycle. This is consistent with the well known Gnevyshev and Ohl
rule or G-O rule of solar cycles, generally described by using the Zurich
sunspot number (Rz). During cycles 12-21 the G-O rule holds good for the
variation in the number of small groups also, but it is violated by cycle pair
(22, 23) as in the case of Rz. This behaviour of the variations in the small
groups is largely responsible for the anomalous behaviour of Rz in cycle pair
(22, 23). It is also found that the amplitude of an odd-numbered cycle of the
number of small groups is larger than that of its immediately following
even-numbered cycle. This can be called as `reverse G-O rule'. In the case of
the number of the big groups, both cycle pairs (12, 13) and (22, 23) violated
the G-O rule. In many cycles the positions of the peaks of the small, large,
and big groups are different and considerably differ with respect to the
corresponding positions of the Rz peaks. In the case of cycle 23, the
corresponding cycles of the small and large groups are largely symmetric/less
asymmetric (Waldmeier effect is weak/absent) with their maxima taking place two
years later than that of Rz. The corresponding cycle of the big groups is more
asymmetric (strong Waldmeier effect) with its maximum epoch taking place at the
same time as that of Rz.