The Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm (Dempster, Laird and Rubin, 1977)
is a popular method for computing maximum likelihood estimates (MLEs) in
problems with missing data. Each iteration of the al- gorithm formally consists
of an E-step: evaluate the expected complete-data log-likelihood given the
observed data, with expectation taken at current pa- rameter estimate; and an
M-step: maximize the resulting expression to find the updated estimate.
Conditions that guarantee convergence of the EM se- quence to a unique MLE were
found by Boyles (1983) and Wu (1983). In complicated models for
high-dimensional data, it is common to encounter an intractable integral in the
E-step. The Monte Carlo EM algorithm of Wei and Tanner (1990) works around this
difficulty by maximizing instead a Monte Carlo approximation to the appropriate
conditional expectation. Convergence properties of Monte Carlo EM have been
studied, most notably, by Chan and Ledolter (1995) and Fort and Moulines
(2003). The goal of this review paper is to provide an accessible but rigorous
in- troduction to the convergence properties of EM and Monte Carlo EM. No
previous knowledge of the EM algorithm is assumed. We demonstrate the im-
plementation of EM and Monte Carlo EM in two simple but realistic examples. We
show that if the EM algorithm converges it converges to a stationary point of
the likelihood, and that the rate of convergence is linear at best. For Monte
Carlo EM we present a readable proof of the main result of Chan and Ledolter
(1995), and state without proof the conclusions of Fort and Moulines (2003). An
important practical implication of Fort and Moulines's (2003) result relates to
the determination of Monte Carlo sample sizes in MCEM; we provide a brief
review of the literature (Booth and Hobert, 1999; Caffo, Jank and Jones, 2005)
on that problem.