Very little is known about the polarimetric properties of CH stars and
carbon-enhanced metal-poor (CEMP) stars, although many of these objects have
been studied in detail both photometrically and spectroscopically. We aim to
derive polarimetric properties for a large sample of CEMP stars and CH stars to
fill this gap. Multiband polarimetric observations were conducted in the first
run for a sample of twenty-nine objects that include twenty-two CEMP and CH
stars and seven polarization standards. Estimates of polarization were obtained
using standard procedures of polarization calculation. Five objects in our
sample do not show any significant polarization over the different colours of
BVRI. For the rest of the objects the derived percentage polarization estimates
are less than or equal to 1%, and they are found to exhibit random behaviour
with respect to the inverse of the effective wavelength of observations.
Polarization also does not seem to have any correlation with the effective
temperatures of the stars. Our polarimetric estimates indicate there are
circumstellar envelopes around these stars that are spherically symmetric or
envelopes with little or no dust. In the plane of differential polarization,
defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum polarizations
within the BVRI-bands, versus their visual magnitude, the stars appear to be
confined to a narrow band. The implication of this trend for understanding the
nature of the circumstellar environment remains to be determined and requires
detailed modelling.