Recently, cutting planes derived from maximal lattice-free convex sets have
been studied intensively by the integer programming community. An important
question in this research area has been to decide whether the closures
associated with certain families of lattice-free sets are polyhedra. For a long
time, the only result known was the celebrated theorem of Cook, Kannan and
Schrijver who showed that the split closure is a polyhedron. Although some
fairly general results were obtained by Andersen, Louveaux and Weismantel [ An
analysis of mixed integer linear sets based on lattice point free convex sets,
Math. Oper. Res. 35 (2010), 233--256] and Averkov [On finitely generated
closures in the theory of cutting planes, Discrete Optimization 9 (2012), no.
4, 209--215], some basic questions have remained unresolved. For example,
maximal lattice-free triangles are the natural family to study beyond the
family of splits and it has been a standing open problem to decide whether the
triangle closure is a polyhedron. In this paper, we show that when the number
of integer variables $m=2$ the triangle closure is indeed a polyhedron and its
number of facets can be bounded by a polynomial in the size of the input data.
The techniques of this proof are also used to give a refinement of necessary
conditions for valid inequalities being facet-defining due to Cornu\'ejols and
Margot [On the facets of mixed integer programs with two integer variables and
two constraints, Mathematical Programming 120 (2009), 429--456] and obtain
polynomial complexity results about the mixed integer hull.