In this study, we derived a galactic extinction map in high ecliptic
latitudes for |\beta| > 30 degrees. The dust temperature distribution was
derived from the intensities at 100 and 140 \mu m with a spatial resolution of
5'. The intensity at 140 \mu m was derived from the intensities at 60 and 100
\mu m of the IRAS data assuming two tight correlations between the intensities
at 60, 100, and 140 \mu m of the COBE/DIRBE data. We found that these
correlations can be separated into two correlations by the antenna temperature
of the radio continuum at 41 GHz.
  Because the present study can trace the 5'-scale spatial variation in the
dust temperature distribution, it has an advantage over the extinction map
derived by Schlegel, Finkbeiner, and Davis, who used the DIRBE maps to derive
dust temperature distribution with a spatial resolution of 1 degrees. We
estimated the accuracy of our method by comparing it with that of Schlegel,
Finkbeiner, and Davis. The spatial resolution difference was found to be
significant. The area in which the significant difference is confirmed occupies
28% of the region for |\beta| > 30 degrees.
  With respect to the estimation of extragalactic reddening, the present study
has an advantage over the extinction map derived by Dobashi (2011), which was
based on the 2MASS Point Source Catalog, because our extinction map is derived
on the basis of far-infrared emission. Dobashi's extinction map exhibits a
maximum value that is lower than that of our map in the galactic plane and a
signal-to-noise ratio that is lower than that of our map in high galactic
latitudes. This significant difference is confirmed in 81% of the region for
|\beta| > 30 degrees.
  In the areas where the significant differences are confirmed, the extinction
should be estimated using our method rather than the previous methods.