We present the emission line profile models of hydrogen and helium based on
the results from axisymmetric magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) simulations of the
wind formed near the disk-magnetosphere boundary of classical T Tauri stars
(CTTSs). We extend the previous outflow models of `the conical-shell wind' by
Romanova et al. to include a well defined magnetospheric accretion funnel flow
which is essential for modelling the optical and near-infrared hydrogen and
helium lines of CTTSs. The MHD model with an intermediate mass-accretion rate
shows outflows in conical-shell shape with a half opening angle about 35
degrees. The flow properties such as the maximum outflow speed in the
conical-shell wind, maximum inflow speed in the accretion funnel,
mass-accretion and mass-loss rates are comparable to those found in a typical
CTTS. The density, velocity and modified temperature from the MHD simulations
are used in a separate radiative transfer model to predict the line profiles
and test the consistency of the MHD models with observations. The line profiles
are computed with various combinations of X-ray luminosities, temperatures of
X-ray emitting plasma, and inclination angles. A rich diversity of line profile
morphology is found, and many of the model profiles are very similar to those
found in observations. We find that the conical-shell wind may contribute to
the emission in some hydrogen lines (e.g. H-alpha, H-beta, Pa-beta and
Pa-gamma) significantly when the temperature in the wind is relatively high
(e.g. \sim 10^{4} K); however, the wind contribution decreases rapidly when a
lower wind temperature is adopted. The model well reproduces a relatively
narrow and low-velocity blueshifted absorption component in He I (10830), which
are often seen in observations.