The chemical abundance patterns of the oldest stars in the Galaxy are
expected to contain residual signatures of the first stars in the early
universe. Numerous studies attempt to explain the intrinsic abundance scatter
observed in some metal-poor populations in terms of chemical inhomogeneities
dispersed throughout the early Galactic medium due to discrete enrichment
events. Just how the complex data and models are to be interpreted with respect
to "progenitor yields" remains an open question. Here we show that stochastic
chemical evolution models to date have overlooked a crucial fact. Essentially
all stars today are born in highly homogeneous star clusters and it is likely
that this was also true at early times. When this ingredient is included, the
overall scatter in the abundance plane [Fe/H] vs. [X/Fe] (C-space), where X is
a nucleosynthetic element, can be much less than derived from earlier models.
Moreover, for moderately flat cluster mass functions (gamma < 2), and/or for
mass functions with a high mass cut-off (M_max > 10^5 M_sun), stars exhibit a
high degree of clumping in C-space that can be identified even in relatively
small data samples. Since stellar abundances can be modified by mass transfer
in close binaries, clustered signatures are essential for deriving the yields
of the first supernovae. We present a statistical test to determine whether a
given set of observations exhibit such behaviour. Our initial work focusses on
two dimensions in C-space, but we show that the clustering signal can be
greatly enhanced by additional abundance axes. The proposed experiment will be
challenging on existing 8-10m telescopes, but relatively straightforward for a
multi-object echelle spectrograph mounted on a 25-40m telescope.