We present ground-based limb polarization measurements of Jupiter and Saturn
consisting of full disk imaging polarimetry for the wavelength 7300 A and
spatially resolved (long slit) spectropolarimetry covering the wavelength range
5200 to 9350 A.
  For the polar region of Jupiter we find for wl=6000 A a very strong radial
polarization with a seeing corrected maximum of about +11.5% in the South and
+10.0% in the North. Our model calculations demonstrate that the high limb
polarization can be explained by strongly polarizing (p~1.0), high albedo
(omega~0.98) haze particles with a scattering asymmetry parameter of g~0.6 as
expected for aggregate particles. The deduced particle parameters are
distinctively different when compared to lower latitude regions.
  The spectropolarimetry of Jupiter shows a decrease in the polar limb
polarization towards longer wavelengths and a significantly enhanced
polarization in strong methane bands when compared to the adjacent continuum.
For lower latitudes the fractional polarization is small, negative, and it
depends only little on wavelength except for the strong CH4-band at 8870 A.
  The South pole of Saturn shows a lower polarization (p~1.0-1.5%) than the
poles of Jupiter. The spectropolarimetric signal for Saturn decrease rapidly
with wavelength and shows no significant enhancements in the fractional
polarization in the absorption bands. These properties can be explained by a
vertically extended stratospheric haze region composed of small particles
<100nm.
  In addition we find a previously not observed strong polarization feature
(p=1.5-2.0%) near the equator of Saturn. The origin of this polarization signal
is unclear but it could be related to a seasonal effect.