We have discovered a new gravitational lens in the Cosmic Lens All-Sky Survey
(CLASS). B2045+265 is a four-image system with a maximum separation of 1.9
arcsec. A fifth radio component is detected, but its radio spectrum and its
positional coincidence with infrared emission from the lensing galaxy strongly
suggests that it is the radio core of the lensing galaxy. This implies that the
B2045+265 system consists of a flat-spectrum radio source being lensed by
another flat-spectrum radio source. Infrared images detect the lensed images of
the background source and the lensing galaxy. The lensed images have relative
positions and flux densities that are consistent with those seen at radio
wavelengths. Spectra of the system reveal a lens redshift of z_l=0.8673 and a
source redshift of z_s=1.28. The image splitting and system redshifts imply
that the projected mass inside the Einstein radius of the lensing galaxy is
M_E=4.7x10^{11} h^{-1} M_sun. An estimate of the light emitted inside the
Einstein radius gives a mass-to-light ratio in the rest frame B band of
(M/L_B)_E = 20 h (M/L_B)_sun. Both the mass and mass-to-light ratio are higher
than what is seen in nearby Sa galaxies. In fact, the implied rotation velocity
for the lensing galaxy is two to three times higher than what is seen in nearby
spirals. The large projected mass inside the Einstein ring radius may be the
result of a significant amount of dark matter in the system, perhaps from a
compact group of galaxies; however, it may also arise from a misidentification
of the source redshift. A simple model of the gravitational potential of the
lens reproduces the image positions well, but further modeling is required to
satisfy the constraints from the image flux density ratios. With further
observations and modeling, this lens may yield an estimate of H_0.