We calculate the low temperature longitudinal ultrasonic attenuation rate
$\alpha_S$ in clean d-wave superconductors. We consider the contribution of
previously ignored processes involving the excitation of a pair of quasi-holes
or quasi-particles. These processes, which are forbidden by energy conservation
in conventional s-wave superconductors, have a finite phase space in d-wave
superconductors due to the presence of nodes in the gap which give rise to soft
low-energy electronic excitations. We find the contribution to $\alpha_S$ from
these processes to be proportional to $T$ in the regime $k_B T\ll Qv_{\Delta}
\ll \Delta_0$,(ultra-low temperature regime) and to be proportional to 1/T in
the region $Qv_F \ll k_BT \ll \Delta_0$, (low temperature regime) where ${\bf
Q}$ is the ultrasound wave-vector and $\Delta_0$ is the maximum gap amplitude.
We explicitly evaluate these terms, for parameters appropriate to the cuprates,
for ${\bf Q}$ along the nodal and the antinodal directions and compare it with
the contribution from processes considered earlier(I.Vekhter et al {\it Phys.
Rev.}{\bf B59}, 7123(1999)). In the ultra-low temperature regime, the processes
considered by us make a contribution which is smaller by about a factor of 10
for ${\bf Q}$ along the nodal direction, while along the antinodal direction it
is larger by a factor of 100 or so. In the low temperature regime on the other
hand the contribution made by these terms is small. However taken together with
the original terms we describe a possible way to evaluate the parameter
$v_F/v_\Delta$.