We study the shear and bulk viscosities of partonic and hadronic matter as
functions of temperature T within the parton-hadron-string dynamics (PHSD)
off-shell transport approach. Dynamical hadronic and partonic systems in
equilibrium are studied by the PHSD simulations in a finite box with periodic
boundary conditions. The ratio of the shear viscosity to entropy density
\eta(T)/s(T) from PHSD shows a minimum (with a value of about 0.1) close to the
critical temperature T_c, while it approaches the perturbative QCD limit at
higher temperatures in line with lattice QCD (lQCD) results. For T<T_c, i.e.,
in the hadronic phase, the ratio \eta/s rises fast with decreasing temperature
due to a strong decrease of the entropy density $s$ in the hadronic phase at
decreasing T. Within statistics, we obtain practically the same results in the
Kubo formalism and in the relaxation time approximation. The bulk viscosity
\zeta(T)---evaluated in the relaxation time approach---is found to strongly
depend on the effects of mean fields (or potentials) in the partonic phase. We
find a significant rise of the ratio \zeta(T)/s(T) in the vicinity of the
critical temperature T_c, when consistently including the scalar mean-field
from PHSD, which is also in agreement with that from lQCD calculations.
Furthermore, we present the results for the ratio (\eta+ 3\zeta/4)/s, which is
found to depend nontrivially on temperature and to generally agree with the
lQCD calculations as well. Within the PHSD calculations, the strong maximum of
\zeta(T)/\eta(T) close to T_c has to be attributed to mean-field (or potential)
effects that in PHSD are encoded in the temperature dependence of the
quasiparticle masses, which is related to the infrared enhancement of the
resummed (effective) coupling g(T).