Challenges related to development, deployment, and maintenance of reusable
software for science are becoming a growing concern. Many scientists' research
increasingly depends on the quality and availability of software upon which
their works are built. To highlight some of these issues and share experiences,
the First Workshop on Sustainable Software for Science: Practice and
Experiences (WSSSPE1) was held in November 2013 in conjunction with the SC13
Conference. The workshop featured keynote presentations and a large number (54)
of solicited extended abstracts that were grouped into three themes and
presented via panels. A set of collaborative notes of the presentations and
discussion was taken during the workshop.
  Unique perspectives were captured about issues such as comprehensive
documentation, development and deployment practices, software licenses and
career paths for developers. Attribution systems that account for evidence of
software contribution and impact were also discussed. These include mechanisms
such as Digital Object Identifiers, publication of "software papers", and the
use of online systems, for example source code repositories like GitHub.
  This paper summarizes the issues and shared experiences that were discussed,
including cross-cutting issues and use cases. It joins a nascent literature
seeking to understand what drives software work in science, and how it is
impacted by the reward systems of science. These incentives can determine the
extent to which developers are motivated to build software for the long-term,
for the use of others, and whether to work collaboratively or separately. It
also explores community building, leadership, and dynamics in relation to
successful scientific software.