The process of cosmic ray first-order Fermi acceleration at relativistic
shock waves is studied with the method of Monte Carlo simulations. The
simulations are based on numerical integration of particle equations of motion
in a turbulent magnetic field near the shock. In comparison to earlier studies,
a few "realistic" features of the magnetic field structure are included. The
upstream field consists of a mean field component inclined at some angle to the
shock normal with finite-amplitude sinusoidal perturbations imposed upon it.
The perturbations are assumed to be static in the local plasma rest frame.
Their flat or Kolmogorov spectra are constructed with randomly drawn wave
vectors from a wide range $(k_{min}, k_{max})$. The downstream field structure
is derived from the upstream one as compressed at the shock. We present
particle spectra and angular distributions obtained at mildly relativistic sub-
and superluminal shocks and also parallel shocks. We show that particle spectra
diverge from a simple power-law, the exact shape of the spectrum depends on
both the amplitude of the magnetic field perturbations and the wave power
spectrum. Features such as spectrum hardening before the cut-off at oblique
subluminal shocks and formation of power-law tails at superluminal ones are
presented and discussed. At parallel shocks, the presence of finite-amplitude
magnetic field perturbations leads to the formation of locally oblique field
configurations at the shock and the respective magnetic field compressions.
This results in the modification of the particle acceleration process,
introducing some features present in oblique shocks, e.g., particle reflections
from the shock. We demonstrate for parallel shocks a (nonmonotonic) variation
of the particle spectral index with the turbulence amplitude.