In this paper we study the very early phases of the evolution of our Galaxy
by means of a chemical evolution model which reproduces most of the
observational constraints in the solar vicinity and in the disk. We have
restricted our analysis to the solar neighborhood and present the predicted
abundances of several elements (C, N, O, Mg, Si, S, Ca, Fe) over an extended
range of metallicities $[Fe/H] = -4.0$ to $[Fe/H] = 0.0$ compared to previous
models. We adopted the most recent yield calculations for massive stars taken
from different contributors (Woosley & Weaver 1995 and Thielemann et al. 1996) and
compared the results with a very large sample of data, one of the largest ever
used to this purpose. These data have been analysed with a new and powerful
statistical method which allows us to quantify the observational spread in
measured elemental abundances and obtain a more meaningful comparison with the
predictions from our chemical evolution model. Our analysis shows that the
``plateau'' observed for the [$\alpha$/Fe] ratios at low metallicities ($-3.0<
[Fe/H] <-1.0$) is not perfectly constant but it shows a slope, especially for
oxygen. This slope is very well reproduced by our model with both sets of
yields. This is not surprising since realistic chemical evolution models,
taking into account in detail stellar lifetimes, never predicted a completely
flat plateau. This is due either to the fact that massive stars of different
mass produce a slightly different O/Fe ratio or to the often forgotten fact
that supernovae of type Ia, originating from white dwarfs, start appearing
already at a galactic age of 30 million years and reach their maximum at 1 Gyr.