In this paper we introduce Law of Large Numbers and Central Limit Theorem for
certain probabilistic system with estimated rate of convergence. The underlying
probability space on which results are constructed is determined by the
Entropy, which is a number of configurations of system which can occur for
given state. The sample space is a lattice of rational numbers and represents
the system states. Probability mass function of particular state is obtained by
normalizing the Entropy of considered state by the sum of Entropies of all
states. The Entropy has a unique maximum for considered lattice and several
other technical properties. As the system grows, i.e. its certain parameter
increases, the Entropies increases and the lattice becomes denser. The first
result of the paper gives the mean state as systems size tends to infinity. The
second result, Central Limit Theorem, depends on the type of maximum of
entropy. When maximum is in the interior of the lattice the fluctuation
converges to Gaussian distribution. In case the maximum is on the boundary of
the domain the distribution is a discrete in the direction orthogonal to the
boundary of lattice on which maximum is situated and Gaussian in other
directions. Additionally, for each result we provide the rate of convergence of
the system to the resulting distribution. The proof consists of several
approximations developed specially for this paper. The main are the Laplace
type approximation but with sum instead of integrals and several other but
rather standard approximations.