We analyze H-alpha images, soft X-ray profiles, magnetograms, extreme
ultra-violet images and radio observations of two homologous flare events
(M1.4/1N and M9.6/2B) on 20 November 2003 in the active region NOAA 10501 and
study properties of reconnection between twisted filament systems, energy
release and associated launch of coronal mass ejections (CMEs). During both
events twisted filaments observed in H-alpha approached each other and
initiated the flare processes. However, the second event showed the formation
of cusp as the filaments interacted. The rotation of sunspots of opposite
polarities, inferred from magnetograms likely powered the twisted filaments and
injection of helicity. Along the current sheet between these two opposite
polarity sunspots, the shear was maximum, which could have caused the twist in
the filament. At the time of interaction between filaments, the reconnection
took place and flare emission in thermal and non-thermal energy ranges attained
the maximum. The radio signatures revealed the opening of field lines resulting
from reconnection. The H-alpha images and radio data provide the inflow speed
leading to reconnection and the scale size of particle acceleration region. The
first event produced a narrow and slow CME, whereas the later one was
associated with a fast full halo CME. The halo CME signatures observed between
Sun and Earth using white-light and scintillation images and in-situ
measurements indicated the magnetic energy utilized in the expansion and
propagation. The magnetic cloud signature at the Earth confirmed the flux rope
ejected at the time of filament interaction and reconnection.