Point-contact (PC) spectroscopy measurements on antiferromagnetic (AF)
(T_N=5.2K) HoNi2B2C single crystals in the normal and two different
superconducting (SC) states (T_c=8.5K and $T_c^*=5.6K) are reported. The PC
study of the electron-boson(phonon) interaction (EB(P)I) spectral function
reveals pronounced phonon maxima at 16, 22 and 34meV. For the first time the
high energy maxima at about 50meV and 100meV are resolved. Additionally, an
admixture of a crystalline-electric-field (CEF) excitations with a maximum near
10meV and a `magnetic` peak near 3meV are observed. The contribution of the
10-meV peak in PC EPI constant \lambda_PC is evaluated as 20-30%, while
contribution of the high energy modes at 50 and 100meV amounts about 10% for
each maxima, so the superconductivity might be affected by CEF excitations. The
SC gap in HoNi2B2C exhibits a standard single-band BCS-like dependence, but
vanishes at $T_c^*=5.6K<T_c, with 2\Delta/kT_c^*=3.9. The strong coupling
Eliashberg analysis of the low-temperature SC phase with T_c^*=5.6K =T_N,
coexisting with the commensurate AF structure, suggests a sizable value of the
EPI constant \lambda_s=0.93. We also provide strong support for the recently
proposed by us ''Fermi surface (FS) separation'' scenario for the coexistence
of magnetism and superconductivity in magnetic borocarbides, namely, that the
superconductivity in the commensurate AF phase survives at a special (nearly
isotropic) FS sheet without an admixture of Ho 5d states. Above T_c^* the SC
features in the PC characteristics are strongly suppressed pointing to a
specific weakened SC state between T_c* and T_c.