We propose that the intensity changes and spectral evolution along the M87
jet can be explained by adiabatic changes to the particle momentum distribution
function and the magnetic field. This is supported by the lack of any
significant variation in the radio-to-optical spectral index along the jet and
the moderate changes in radio brightness. Assuming a simple scaling law between
magnetic field and density, we use the deprojection of a 2 cm VLA intensity map
by Sparks, Biretta, & Macchetto (1996) to predict the spectral evolution along
the jet. We derive limits for the magnetic field and the total pressure by
comparing our results with the spatially resolved fit to spectral data by
Neumann, Meisenheimer, & Roeser (1997) of a model spectrum that cuts off at
approx 10^15 Hz. To explain the weakness of synchrotron cooling along the jet,
the magnetic field strength must lie below the equipartition value. Although
the inferred pressure in the limit of nonrelativistic bulk flow lies far above
the estimated pressure of the interstellar matter in the center of M87, bulk
Lorentz factors Gamma_jet in the range of 3 - 5 and inclination angles approx
less than 25 deg lead to pressure estimates close to the ISM pressure. The
average best fit magnetic fields we derive fall in the range of 20 - 40 microG,
departing from equipartition by a factor approx 1.5 - 5. This model is
consistent with the proposal by Bicknell & Begelman (1996) that the knots in
the M87 jet are weak, oblique shocks. First-order Fermi acceleration will then
have a minimal effect on the slope of the radio-- to-optical spectrum while
possibly accounting for the X-ray spectrum.