In this paper we present the first results of a deep spectroscopic survey of
faint quasars in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Southern Survey, a deep
survey carried out by repeatedly imaging a 270 deg^2 area. Quasar candidates
were selected from the deep data with good completeness over 0<z<5, and 2 to 3
magnitudes fainter than the SDSS main survey. Spectroscopic follow-up was
carried out on the 6.5m MMT with Hectospec. The preliminary sample of this SDSS
faint quasar survey (hereafter SFQS) covers ~ 3.9 deg^2, contains 414 quasars,
and reaches g=22.5. The overall selection efficiency is ~ 66% (~ 80% at
g<21.5); the efficiency in the most difficult redshift range (2<z<3) is better
than 40%. We use the 1/V_{a} method to derive a binned estimate of the quasar
luminosity function (QLF) and model the QLF using maximum likelihood analysis.
The best model fits confirm previous results showing that the QLF has steep
slopes at the bright end and much flatter slopes (-1.25 at z<2.0 and -1.55 at
z>2.0) at the faint end, indicating a break in the QLF slope. Using a
luminosity-dependent density evolution model, we find that the quasar density
at M_{g}<-22.5 peaks at z~2, which is later in cosmic time than the peak of
z~2.5 found from surveys of more luminous objects. The SFQS QLF is consistent
with the results of the 2dF QSO Redshift Survey, the SDSS, and the 2dF-SDSS LRG
and QSO Survey, but probes fainter quasars. We plan to obtain more quasars from
future observations and establish a complete faint quasar sample with more than
1000 objects over 10 deg^2.