As shown by Mandula, the Ginsparg-Wilson lattice realisation of chiral
symmetry has a possible ambiguity: there is no unique lattice chiral symmetry,
but an infinite group of symmetries with non-commuting generators. The physical
implications of this abundance of symmetry remain unclear. In recent work, it
has been shown how these chiral symmetries for overlap fermions can be derived
from a renormalisation group blocking in the continuum, transforming the action
from the standard continuum action to an equivalent to the lattice overlap
action. There is no unique blocking, and different blockings lead to different
chiral symmetries. The group of symmetries found by Mandula immediately
follows. In this way, the excess chiral symmetry on the lattice can be
explained in terms of different renormalisation schemes.
  The previous work suffered from one technical challenge: there is no
continuum analogue of the lattice chiral eigenvectors at eigenvalue $2/a$. As
the construction of the overlap operator required a mapping between lattice and
continuum eigenvalues, the lack of a continuum counterpart to the doublers of
the zero modes creates an ambiguity in the construction. Although the lattice
chiral symmetry can still be defined, this leads to difficulties when
considering $\mathcal{CP}$ symmetry on the lattice. In this work, we
investigate the possibility of resolving this ambiguity by adding a second
fermion field to the original continuum action used as a basis of the
renormalisation group blockings. This second fermion field has a mass of the
order of the momentum cut-off, to simulate the effects of the fermion doublers.
Working through the same renormalisation group procedure to map this action to
the lattice overlap action yields additional Ginsparg-Wilson relations
satisfied by the overlap operator, and more (non-commuting) lattice chiral
symmetries.