Using an extensive sample of galaxies selected from the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey Data Release 5, we compare the angular momentum distribution of active
galactic nucleus (AGN) with non-AGN hosting late-type galaxies. To this end we
characterize galactic spin through the dimensionless angular momentum parameter
$\lambda$, which we estimate approximately through simple dynamical
considerations. Using a volume limited sample, we find a considerable
difference when comparing the empirical distributions of $\lambda$ for AGNs and
non-AGN galaxies, the AGNs showing typically low $\lambda$ values and
associated dispersions, while non-AGNs present higher $\lambda$ values and a
broader distribution. A more striking difference is found when looking at
$\lambda$ distributions in thin $M_{r}$ cuts, while the spin of non-AGN
galaxies presents an anti-correlation with $M_{r}$, with bright (massive)
galaxies having low spins, AGN host galaxies present uniform values of
$\lambda$ at all magnitudes, a behavior probably imposed by the fact that most
late-type AGN galaxies present a narrow range in color, with a typical constant
$\lambda$ value. We also find that the fraction of AGN hosting galaxies in our
sample strongly depends on galactic spin, increasing dramatically for
decreasing $\lambda$. For AGN host galaxies we compute the mass of their
supermassive black holes and find that this value tends to be higher for low
spin galaxies, even at fixed luminosity, a result that could account, to a
certain extent, for the spread on the luminosity black-hole mass relation.