We consider the retarded solution to the scalar, electromagnetic, and
linearized gravitational field equations in Minkowski spacetime, with source
given by a particle moving on a null geodesic. In the scalar case and in the
Lorenz gauge in the electromagnetic and gravitational cases, the retarded
integral over the infinite past of the source does not converge as a
distribution, so we cut off the null source suitably at a finite time $t_0$ and
then consider two different limits: (i) the limit as the observation point goes
to null infinity at fixed $t_0$, from which the ``$1/r$'' part of the fields
can be extracted and (ii) the limit $t_0 \to - \infty$ at fixed ``observation
point.'' The limit (i) gives rise to a ``velocity kick'' on distant test
particles in the scalar and electromagnetic cases, and it gives rise to a
``memory effect'' (i.e., a permanent change in relative separation of two test
particles) in the linearized gravitational case, in agreement with previous
analyses. Although the second limit does not exist for the Lorenz gauge
potentials in the electromagnetic and linearized gravitational cases, we obtain
a well defined distributional limit for the electromagnetic field strength and
for the linearized Riemann tensor. In the gravitational case, this limit agrees
with the Aichelberg-Sexl solution, but there is no ``memory effect'' associated
with this limiting solution. This strongly suggests that the memory
effect---including nonlinear memory effect of Christodoulou---should not be
interpreted as arising simply from the passage of (effective) null stress
energy to null infinity but rather as arising from a ``burst of radiation''
associated with the creation of the null stress-energy (as in case (i) above)
or, more generally, with radiation present in the spacetime that was not
``produced'' by the null stress-energy.