Given an $r$-graph $H$ on $h$ vertices, and a family $\mathcal{F}$ of
forbidden subgraphs, we define $\ex_{H}(n, \mathcal{F})$ to be the maximum
number of induced copies of $H$ in an $\mathcal{F}$-free $r$-graph on $n$
vertices.
  Then the \emph{Tur\'an $H$-density} of $\mathcal{F}$ is the limit
\[\pi_{H}(\mathcal{F})= \lim_{n\rightarrow \infty}\ex_{H}(n,
\mathcal{F})/\binom{n}{h}. \]
  This generalises the notions of \emph{Tur\'an density} (when $H$ is an
$r$-edge), and \emph{inducibility} (when $\mathcal{F}$ is empty). Although
problems of this kind have received some attention, very few results are known.
  We use Razborov's semi-definite method to investigate Tur\'an $H$-densities
for 3-graphs. In particular, we show that \[\pi_{K_4^-}(K_4) = 16/27,\] with
Tur\'an's construction being optimal. We prove a result in a similar flavour
for $K_5$ and make a general conjecture on the value of $\pi_{K_t^-}(K_t)$. We
also establish that \[\pi_{4.2}(\emptyset)=3/4,\] where 4.2 denotes the 3-graph
on 4 vertices with exactly 2 edges. The lower bound in this case comes from a
random geometric construction strikingly different from previous known extremal
examples in 3-graph theory. We give a number of other results and conjectures
for 3-graphs, and in addition consider the inducibility of certain directed
graphs. Let $\vec{S}_k$ be the \emph{out-star} on $k$ vertices; i.e{.} the star
on $k$ vertices with all $k-1$ edges oriented away from the centre. We show
that \[\pi_{\vec{S}_3}(\emptyset)=2\sqrt3-3,\] with an iterated blow-up
construction being extremal. This is related to a conjecture of Mubayi and
R\"odl on the Tur\'an density of the 3-graph $C_5$. We also determine
$\pi_{\vec{S}_k}(\emptyset)$ when $k=4$, and conjecture its value for general
$k$.