We use highly spectroscopically complete observations of the radio sources
from the VLA 1.4 GHz survey of the HDF-N region to study the faint radio galaxy
population and its evolution. We spectrally classify the sources into four
spectral types: absorbers, star formers, Seyfert galaxies, and broad-line AGNs,
and we analyze their properties by type. We supplement the spectroscopic
redshifts with photometric redshifts measured from the rest-frame UV to MIR
spectral energy distributions. Using deep X-ray observations of the field, we
do not confirm the existence of an X-ray-radio correlation for star-forming
galaxies. We also do not observe any correlations between 1.4 GHz flux and R
magnitude or redshift. We find that the radio powers of the host galaxies rise
dramatically with increasing redshift, while the optical properties of the host
galaxies show at most small changes. Assuming that the locally determined
FIR-radio correlation holds at high redshifts, we estimate total FIR
luminosities for the radio sources. We note that the FIR luminosity estimates
for any radio-loud AGNs will be overestimates. Considering only the radio
sources with quasar-like bolometric luminosities, we find a maximum ratio of
candidate highly-obscured AGNs to X-ray-luminous (>10^42 ergs/s) sources of
about 1.9. We use source-stacking analyses to measure the X-ray surface
brightnesses of various X-ray and radio populations. We find the contributions
to the 4-8 keV light from our candidate highly-obscured AGNs to be very small,
and hence these sources are unable to account for the light that has been
suggested may be missing at these energies.