A statistical analysis of dataset of H-alpha, soft X-ray (SXR) and Hard X-ray
(HXR) flares comprising almost 318, 401 and 1920 single events respectively
that occurred during the period of October-November 2003 is presented. On the
basis of this dataset, statistics on temporal properties e.g. duration, rise
and decay times of H-alpha, SXR and HXR flare with regard to the flare classes
is presented. The duration, rise and decay time for H-alpha flares increases
with increasing importance and brightness classes. The increase is more
pronounced for the duration and decay time. The same relation is valid with
regard to the brightness class. On the other hand for SXR flares, the duration,
rise and decay also increase with the flare class being more pronounced for the
duration and rise time. We have also analysed the event asymmetry (EA) of
H-alpha, SXR and HXR flares for the same period. The EA indices are
predominantly positive for H-alpha but for SXR and HXR this shows symmetrical
distribution on both sides of zero asymmetry. Our study also presents the
result of the Neupert effect (NE) in solar flares for the same period. We
investigate the time difference (\Delta t) between the maximum of SXR emission
and the end of the HXR emission for many flares during the period of our
investigation. Our study shows that distribution of the time difference reveals
a peak at . Out of 236 events, only 48 (20.34 per cent) events satisfy the NE
whereas there is also a significant fraction of flares 62 (26.27 per cent)
which shows strong deviation form . The period of investigation is focused on
the descending phase of solar cycle 23. Study of this period is significant
because in this decay phase activity exhibits a sudden increase.