A significant amount of the millisecond pulsars has been discovered within
binary systems. In several such binary systems the masses of the companion
stars have been derived allowing to distinguish two classes of objects, called
the Black Widow and the Redback binaries. Pulsars in these binary systems are
expected to produce winds which, colliding with stellar winds, create
conditions for acceleration of electrons. These electrons should interact with
the anisotropic radiation from the companion stars producing gamma-ray emission
modulated with the orbital period of the binary system. We consider the
interaction of a millisecond pulsar (MSP) wind with a very inhomogeneous
stellar wind from the companion star within binary systems of the Black Widow
and Redback types. It is expected that the pulsar wind should mix efficiently
with the inhomogeneous stellar wind. Electrons accelerated in such mixed,
turbulent winds can interact with the magnetic field and also strong radiation
from the companion star producing not only synchrotron radiation but also
gamma-rays in the the Inverse Compton process. Applying numerical methods, we
calculated the GeV-TeV gamma-ray spectra and the light curves expected from
some millisecond pulsar binary systems. It is concluded that energetic
millisecond pulsar binary systems create a new class of TeV gamma-ray sources
which could be detectable by the future Cherenkov arrays (e.g. CTA) and
possibly also by the extensive campaigns with the present arrays (HESS, MAGIC,
VERITAS). However, gamma-ray emission from the millisecond pulsar binary
systems is predicted to have different features than those observed in the case
of massive TeV gamma-ray binaries such as LS I 303 61 or LS 5039. The maximum
in the TeV gamma-ray orbital light curve should appear when the MSP is behind
the companion star.