First-order Fermi acceleration processes at ultrarelativistic shocks are
studied with Monte Carlo simulations. The accelerated particle spectra are
obtained by integrating the exact particle trajectories in a turbulent magnetic
field near the shock, with a few ``realistic'' features of the field structure
included. We show that the main acceleration process at oblique shocks is the
particle compression at the shock. Formation of energetic spectral tails is
possible in a limited energy range for highly perturbed magnetic fields.
Cut-offs in the spectra occur at low energies in the resonance range
considered. We relate this feature to the structure of the magnetic field
downstream of the shock, where field compression produces effectively 2D
turbulence in which cross-field diffusion is very small. Because of the field
compression downstream, the acceleration process is inefficient also in
parallel high-$\gamma$ shocks for larger turbulence amplitudes, and features
observed in oblique shocks are recovered. For small-amplitude perturbations,
particle spectra are formed in a wide energy range and modifications of the
acceleration process due to the existence of long-wave perturbations are
observed. The critical turbulence amplitude for efficient acceleration at
parallel shocks decreases with shock Lorentz factor. We also study the
influence of strong short-wave perturbations downstream of the shock on the
particle acceleration processes. The spectral indices obtained do not converge
to the ``universal'' value . Our results indicate inefficiency of the
first-order Fermi process to generate high-energy cosmic rays at
ultrarelativistic shocks with the considered perturbed magnetic field
structures.