The observable quantities in optical interferometry, which are the modulus
and the phase of the complex visibility, may be corrupted by parasitic fringes
superimposed on the genuine fringe pattern. These fringes are due to an
interference phenomenon occurring from straylight effects inside an
interferometric instrument. We developed an analytical approach to better
understand this phenomenon when straylight causes crosstalk between beams.
  We deduced that the parasitic interference significantly affects the
interferometric phase and thus the associated observables including the
differential phase and the closure phase. The amount of parasitic flux coupled
to the piston between beams appears to be very influential in this degradation.
For instance, considering a point-like source and a piston ranging from
$\lambda/500$ to $\lambda/5$ in L band ($\lambda=3.5\:\mu$m), a parasitic flux
of about 1\% of the total flux produces a parasitic phase reaching at most one
third of the intrinsic phase. The piston, which can have different origins
(instrumental stability, atmospheric perturbations, ...), thus amplifies the
effect of parasitic interference.
  According to specifications of piston correction in space or at ground level
(respectively $\lambda/500\approx 2$nm and $\lambda/30\approx 100$nm), the
detection of hot Jupiter-like planets, one of the most challenging aims for
current ground-based interferometers, limits parasitic radiation to about 5\%
of the incident intensity. This was evaluated by considering different types of
hot Jupiter synthetic spectra.
  Otherwise, if no fringe tracking is used, the detection of a typical hot
Jupiter-like system with a solar-like star would admit a maximum level of
parasitic intensity of 0.01\% for piston errors equal to $\lambda$/15. If the
fringe tracking specifications are not precisely observed, it thus appears that
the allowed level of parasitic intensity dramatically decreases and may prevent
the detection. In parallel, the calibration of the parasitic phase by a
reference star, at this accuracy level, seems very difficult. Moreover, since
parasitic phase is an object-dependent quantity, the use of a hypothetical
phase abacus, directly giving the parasitic phase from a given parasitic flux
level, is also impossible. Some instrumental solutions, implemented at the
instrument design stage for limiting or preventing this parasitic interference,
appears to be crucial and are presented in this paper.