Susceptibility of scale free Power Law (PL) networks to attacks has been
traditionally studied in the context of what may be termed as {\em
instantaneous attacks}, where a randomly selected set of nodes and edges are
deleted while the network is kept {\em static}. In this paper, we shift the
focus to the study of {\em progressive} and instantaneous attacks on {\em
reactive} grown and random PL networks, which can respond to attacks and take
remedial steps. In the process, we present several techniques that managed
networks can adopt to minimize the damages during attacks, and also to
efficiently recover from the aftermath of successful attacks. For example, we
present (i) compensatory dynamics that minimize the damages inflicted by
targeted progressive attacks, such as linear-preferential deletions of nodes in
grown PL networks; the resulting dynamic naturally leads to the emergence of
networks with PL degree distributions with exponential cutoffs; (ii)
distributed healing algorithms that can scale the maximum degree of nodes in a
PL network using only local decisions, and (iii) efficient means of creating
giant connected components in a PL network that has been fragmented by attacks
on a large number of high-degree nodes. Such targeted attacks are considered to
be a major vulnerability of PL networks; however, our results show that the
introduction of only a small number of random edges, through a {\em reverse
percolation} process, can restore connectivity, which in turn allows
restoration of other topological properties of the original network. Thus, the
scale-free nature of the networks can itself be effectively utilized for
protection and recovery purposes.