Image segmentation is a vital part of image processing. Segmentation has its
application widespread in the field of medical images in order to diagnose
curious diseases. The same medical images can be segmented manually. But the
accuracy of image segmentation using the segmentation algorithms is more when
compared with the manual segmentation. In the field of medical diagnosis an
extensive diversity of imaging techniques is presently available, such as
radiography, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Medical image segmentation is an essential step for most consequent image
analysis tasks. Although the original FCM algorithm yields good results for
segmenting noise free images, it fails to segment images corrupted by noise,
outliers and other imaging artifact. This paper presents an image segmentation
approach using Modified Fuzzy C-Means (FCM) algorithm and Fuzzy Possibilistic
c-means algorithm (FPCM). This approach is a generalized version of standard
Fuzzy CMeans Clustering (FCM) algorithm. The limitation of the conventional FCM
technique is eliminated in modifying the standard technique. The Modified FCM
algorithm is formulated by modifying the distance measurement of the standard
FCM algorithm to permit the labeling of a pixel to be influenced by other
pixels and to restrain the noise effect during segmentation. Instead of having
one term in the objective function, a second term is included, forcing the
membership to be as high as possible without a maximum limit constraint of one.
Experiments are conducted on real images to investigate the performance of the
proposed modified FCM technique in segmenting the medical images. Standard FCM,
Modified FCM, Fuzzy Possibilistic CMeans algorithm (FPCM) are compared to
explore the accuracy of our proposed approach.