The electron-doped silicene under the influence of the biaxial tensile strain
is predicted to be the phonon-mediated superconductor. By using the Eliashberg
formalism, we investigate the thermodynamic properties of the superconducting
silicene in the case when the tension is $5\%$ and the electron doping equals
$3.5\times10^{14}~{\rm cm^{-2}}$. Under such conditions, silicene monolayer is
expected to exhibit the highest superconducting transition temperature ($T_C$).
In particular, based on the electron-phonon spectral function and assuming wide
range of the Coulomb pseudopotential values
($\mu^{\star}\in\left\langle0.1,0.3\right\rangle$) it is stated that the
superconducting transition temperature decreases from $18.7$ K to $11.6$ K.
Similar behavior is observed in the case of the zeroth temperature
superconducting energy gap at the Fermi level: $2\Delta(0)\in\left\langle6.68,
3.88\right\rangle$ meV. Other thermodynamic parameters differ from the
predictions of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory. In particular, the ratio
of the energy gap to the critical temperature changes in the range from $4.14$
to $3.87$. The ratio of the specific heat jump to the specific heat in the
normal state takes the values from $2.19$ to $2.05$, and the ratio of the
critical temperature and specific heat in the normal state to the thermodynamic
critical field increases from $0.143$ to $0.155$. It is also determined that
the maximum value of the electron effective mass equals $2.11$ of the electron
band mass.