Our primary objective in this paper is to study the distribution of the
maximal clique size of the vertices in complex networks. We define the maximal
clique size for a vertex as the maximum size of the clique that the vertex is
part of and such a clique need not be the maximum size clique for the entire
network. We determine the maximal clique size of the vertices using a modified
version of a branch-and-bound based exact algorithm that has been originally
proposed to determine the maximum size clique for an entire network graph. We
then run this algorithm on two categories of complex networks: One category of
networks capture the evolution of small-world networks from regular network
(according to the wellknown Watts-Strogatz model) and their subsequent
evolution to random networks; we show that the distribution of the maximal
clique size of the vertices follows a Poisson-style distribution at different
stages of the evolution of the small-world network to a random network; on the
other hand, the maximal clique size of the vertices is observed to be
in-variant and to be very close to that of the maximum clique size for the
entire network graph as the regular network is transformed to a small-world
network. The second category of complex networks studied are real-world
networks (ranging from random networks to scale-free networks) and we observe
the maximal clique size of the vertices in five of the six real-world networks
to follow a Poisson-style distribution. In addition to the above case studies,
we also analyze the correlation between the maximal clique size and clustering
coefficient as well as analyze the assortativity index of the vertices with
respect to maximal clique size and node degree.