The growing evidence for supermassive black holes in the centres of nearby
galaxies has brought into sharper focus the question of why elliptical
galaxies, rich in hot gas, do not possess quasar-like luminosities. Recent
studies suggest that advection-dominated accretion flows (ADAFs), with
associated low radiative efficiency, might provide an explanation for the
observed quiescence. Although ADAF models have been applied to a number of
low-luminosity systems, compelling observational evidence for their existence
is still required. Here, we examine new high-frequency radio observations of
the giant, low-luminosity elliptical galaxies NGC 4649, NGC 4472 and NGC 4636
made with the Very Large Array (VLA) and the sub-millimetre common-user
bolometer array (SCUBA) on the JCMT. At these frequencies the predictions are
very precise and an ADAF is unequivocally characterised by a slowly rising
spectrum with a sharp spectral cut-off produced by thermal synchrotron
radiation. The new radio limits severely disagree with the canonical ADAF
predictions which significantly overestimate the observed flux. While our
observations do not rule out the presence of an ADAF in these objects, they
place strong constraints on the model. If the accretion in these objects occurs
in an advection-dominated mode then our radio limits imply that the emission
from their central regions must be suppressed. We examine the possibility that
the magnetic field in the flow is extremely low or that synchrotron emission is
free-free absorbed by cold material in the accretion flow. We also discuss
whether slow non-radiating accretion flows may drive winds/outflows to remove
energy, angular momentum and mass so that the central densities, pressures and
emissivities are much smaller than in a standard ADAF.