We have examined the ratio of blue to red (B/R) supergiants in the dwarf
irregular galaxy Sextans A. The supergiants were identified in previously
published stellar photometry measured from Hubble Space Telescope imaging. The
high resolution imaging and low dust environment provided high photometric
accuracy such that the main sequence and blue He-burning supergiants are
clearly separated. This allows us to isolate the He-burning phase at both the
red and blue ends of the so called ``blue-loops''. The B/R supergiant ratio
provides an observational constraint on the relative lifetimes of these two
phases which is a sensitive test for convection, mass loss, and rotation
parameters. These parameters have direct implications for the period-luminosity
relationship for Cepheid variable stars. Previous studies have used a single
number to represent this ratio. However, since the B/R ratio is a fairly strong
function of mass for a single age stellar population, both changes in recent
star formation rate and choice of luminosity cut-off can dramatically affect
the result. We have analyzed the ratio as a function of age, or equivalently,
mass. This method eliminates the confusion of unknown star formation histories
so that B/R can be a more reliable diagnostic tool. We compare the result with
a model based on stellar evolution tracks of an appropriate metallicity. The
functional form of the observed ratio matches the model extremely well.
However, the observed B/R ratio is lower than the model by a factor of two.
This result suggests that stellar rotation is an important effect in the
evolution of these stars.