A $k$-edge-colored graph is a finite, simple graph with edges labeled by
numbers $1,\ldots,k$. A function from the vertex set of one $k$-edge-colored
graph to another is a homomorphism if the color of every edge is preserved over
the mapping. Given a class of graphs $\mathcal{F}$, a $k$-edge-colored graph
$\mathbb{H}$ (not necessarily with the underlying graph in $\mathcal{F}$) is
$k$-universal for $\mathcal{F}$ when any $k$-edge-colored graph with the
underlying graph in $\mathcal{F}$ maps homomorphically to $\mathbb{H}$. We
characterize graph classes that admit $k$-universal graphs. For such classes,
we establish asymptotically almost tight bounds on the size of the smallest
universal graph.
  The main results are the following. A class of graphs $\mathcal{F}$ admits
$k$-universal graphs for $k\geq2$ if and only if there is an absolute constant
that bounds the acyclic chromatic number of any graph in $\mathcal{F}$. For any
such class, the size of the smallest $k$-universal graph is
$\Omega\left(k^{D(\mathcal{F})}\right)$ and $O\left(k^{\left\lceil
D(\mathcal{F})\right\rceil}\right)$, where $D(\mathcal{F})$ is the maximum
ratio of the number of edges to the number of vertices ranging over all
subgraphs of all graphs in $\mathcal{F}$.
  A connection between the acyclic coloring and the existence of universal
graphs was first observed by Alon and Marshall (Journal of Algebraic
Combinatorics, 8(1):5-13, 1998). One of their results is that for the class of
planar graphs, the size of the smallest $k$-universal graph is between $k^3+3$
and $5k^4$. Our results yield that this size is $\Theta\left(k^3\right)$.