The rigorous version of the result that unifies Maxwell-Boltzmann,
Bose-Einstein statistics and Zipf-Mandelbrot Law is presented in the paper.
Additionally, the Fluctuation theorem is included. Both results are set in the
rigorous probabilistic framework. The system under consideration is composed of
fixed number of particles and energy smaller than some prescribed value. The
particles are redistributed on fixed number of energy levels and are
indistinguishable within one level. Further, the degenerations of energy levels
are included and their number increases as the number of particles increase.
The three distribution mentioned in the title corresponds to the three
asymptotic cases of rate of increases of degenerations as a function of
particles. When we take a thermodynamic limit for three cases we basically
obtain the Law of Large Numbers and the obtained three means are our
distributions. The fluctuations, i.e. the deviation from the mean turns out
depends on the Entropy of the system. When its maximum is in inside of the
domain we get Gaussian distribution. When it is on the boundary we get discrete
distribution in the direction orthogonal to the boundary on which maximum is
situated and Gaussian in other directions. The proof is similar for both
results. The main part are the properties and asymptotic behavior of Entropy.
Due to this we can optimize it and therefore apply probabilistic results which
underlying assumptions overlap with ours and eventually get the desired
results.