Models for the evolution of the integrated energy spectrum of primary cosmic
ray electrons in clusters of galaxies have been calculated, including the
effects of losses due to inverse Compton (IC), synchrotron, and bremsstrahlung
emission, and Coulomb losses to the intracluster medium (ICM). The combined
time scale for these losses reaches a maximum of ~3e9 yr for electrons with a
Lorentz factor ~300. Only clusters in which there has been a substantial
injection of relativistic electrons since z <~ 1 will have any significant
population of primary cosmic ray electrons at present. In typical models, there
is a broad peak in the electron energy distribution extending to gamma~300, and
a steep drop in the electron population beyond this. In clusters with current
particle injection, there is a power-law tail of higher energy electrons with
an abundance determined by the current rate of injection. A significant
population of electrons with gamma~300, associated with the peak in the
particle loss time, is a generic feature of the models. The IC and synchrotron
emission from these models was calculated. In the models, EUV and soft X-ray
emission are nearly ubiquitous. This emission is produced by electrons with
gamma~300. The spectra are predicted to drop rapidly in going from the EUV to
the X-ray band. The IC emission also extends down the UV, optical, and IR bands
with a fairly flat spectrum. Hard X-ray (HXR) and diffuse radio emission due to
high energy electrons (gamma~10e4) is present only in clusters which have
current particle acceleration. Assuming that the electrons are accelerated in
ICM shocks, one would only expect diffuse HXR/radio emission in clusters which
are currently undergoing a large merger.