We performed a search for the 4He-eta bound state via exclusive measurement
of the excitation function for the dd->3Heppi- reaction, where the outgoing
p-pi- pair originates from the conversion of the eta meson on a neutron inside
the 4He nucleus. The measurements were performed at the Cooler Synchrotron
COSY-Juelich with the WASA-at-COSY detection system.The internal deuteron beam
of COSY was scattered on a pellet-type deuteron target. The data were taken
during a slow acceleration of the beam from 2.185 GeV/c to 2.400 GeV/c crossing
the kinematical threshold for the eta production in the dd->4He-eta reaction at
2.336 GeV/c. The corresponding excess energy in the 4He-eta system varied from
-51.4 MeV to 22 MeV. Events corresponding to decays of the eta-mesic 4He were
selected using cuts on the 3He momentum, p and pi- kinetic energies and the
relative p-pi- angle in the center of mass system. The range of the applied
cuts was inferred from simulations of decay of the 4He-eta bound state
proceeding via excitation the N* resonance. The integrated luminosity in the
experiment was determined using the dd->3He-n reaction and the relative
normalization of the points of the dd->3Heppi- excitation function was based on
the quasi-elastic proton-proton scattering. No signal of the 4He-eta bound
state was observed in the excitation function. An upper limit for the
cross-section for the bound state formation and decay in the process
dd->(4He-eta)_bound->3Heppi- determined for the bound state width of 10, 20 and
30 MeV equals to 28, 32 and 41 nb, respectively. The measured angular and
momentum distributions of the reaction products are close to those simulated
under the assumption of uniform phase-space distribution.