The theory of large deviations is concerned with the exponential decay of
probabilities of large fluctuations in random systems. These probabilities are
important in many fields of study, including statistics, finance, and
engineering, as they often yield valuable information about the large
fluctuations of a random system around its most probable state or trajectory.
In the context of equilibrium statistical mechanics, the theory of large
deviations provides exponential-order estimates of probabilities that refine
and generalize Einstein's theory of fluctuations. This review explores this and
other connections between large deviation theory and statistical mechanics, in
an effort to show that the mathematical language of statistical mechanics is
the language of large deviation theory. The first part of the review presents
the basics of large deviation theory, and works out many of its classical
applications related to sums of random variables and Markov processes. The
second part goes through many problems and results of statistical mechanics,
and shows how these can be formulated and derived within the context of large
deviation theory. The problems and results treated cover a wide range of
physical systems, including equilibrium many-particle systems, noise-perturbed
dynamics, nonequilibrium systems, as well as multifractals, disordered systems,
and chaotic systems. This review also covers many fundamental aspects of
statistical mechanics, such as the derivation of variational principles
characterizing equilibrium and nonequilibrium states, the breaking of the
Legendre transform for nonconcave entropies, and the characterization of
nonequilibrium fluctuations through fluctuation relations.