We study the molecular gas content and distribution in the Coma cluster
spiral galaxy NGC 4848. Plateau de Bure interferometric CO(1-0) observations
reveal a lopsided H_2 distribution with an off-center secondary maximum
coincident with the inner part of the HI. NGC 4848 is not at all deficient in
molecular gas as it contains M_H_2~4x10^9 M_solar. At the interface between the
CO and HI emission regions, about 8 kpc NW of the center, however, strong star
formation is present as witnessed by Halpha and radio continuum emission. This
is the region in which earlier Fabry-Perot observations revealed a
double-peaked Halpha line, indicating gas at two different velocities at the
same sky position. In order to understand these observations, we present the
results of numerical simulations of the ISM-ICM interaction. We suggest that
NGC 4848 already passed through the center of the cluster about 4x10^8 years
ago. At the observed stage ram pressure has no more direct dynamical influence
on the galaxy's ISM. We observe the galaxy when a fraction of the stripped gas
is falling back onto the galaxy. Ram pressure is thus a short-lived event with
longer-lasting consequences. The combination of ram-pressure and rotation
results in gas at different velocities colliding where the double-peaked Halpha
line is observed. Ram-pressure can thus result, after re-accretion, in
displaced molecular gas without the H_2 itself being pushed efficiently by the
ICM. A scenario where two interactions take place simultaneously is also
consistent with the available data but less probable on the basis of our
numerical simulations.