About half of carbon and s-process enhanced metal-poor stars (CEMP-s) show a
high r-process enrichment (CEMP-s/r), incompatible with a pure s-process
contribution. CEMP-s stars are of low mass (M < 0.9 Msun) and belong to binary
systems. The C and s-process enrichment results from mass transfer by the winds
of the primary AGB companion (now a white dwarf). The nucleosynthesis of the
r-process, instead, is believed to occur in massive stars exploding as
Supernovae of Type II. The most representative r-process element is Eu (95% of
solar Eu). We suggest that the r-process enrichment was already present by
local SNII pollution in the molecular cloud from which the binary system
formed. The initial r-enrichment does not affect the s-process nucleosynthesis.
However, the s-process indicators [hs/ls] (where ls is defined as the average
of Y and Zr; hs as the average of La, Nd, Sm) and [Pb/hs] may depend on the
initial r-enhancement. For instance, the hs-peak has to account of an r-process
contribution estimated to be 30% for solar La, 40% for solar Nd, and 70% for
solar Sm. A large spread of [Eu/Fe] is observed in unevolved halo stars up to
[Eu/Fe] ~ 2. In presence of a very high initial r-enrichment of the molecular
cloud, the maximum [hs/Fe] predicted in CEMP-s/r stars may increase up to 0.3
dex. Instead, the spread of [Y,Zr/Fe] observed in unevolved halo stars reaches
a maximum of only ~ 0.5 dex, not affecting much the predicted [ls/Fe]. This is
in agreement with observations of CEMP-s/r stars that show an observed [hs/ls]
in average higher than that observed in CEMP-s. Preliminary results are
presented.