We report on the unique nulling properties of PSR B0818-41, using the GMRT at
325 and 610 MHz. We find following interesting behaviour just before and after
the nulls: (i) The pulsar's intensity does not switch off abruptly at the null,
but fades gradually, taking ~ 10 P1. Just after nulls intensity rises to a
maximum over a short (less than one period) time scale. (ii) While the last
active pulses before nulls are dimmer, the first few active pulses just after
nulls outshine normal ones. This effect is very clear for inner region of
pulsar profile, where mean intensity of last few active pulses just after nulls
is ~ 2.8 times more than that for last active pulses just before nulls. (iii)
There is a significant evolution of shape of the pulsar's profile, around
nulls, especially at beginning of bursts: an enhanced bump of intensity in
inner region, a change in ratio of strengths of the leading and trailing peaks
towards a more symmetric profile, an increase in profile width of about 10%,
and a shift of profile centre towards later longitudes. (iv) Just before nulls,
the apparent drift rate becomes slower, transitioning to an almost phase
stationary drift pattern. Further, when the pulsar comes out of null, the
increased intensity is very often accompanied by what looks like a disturbed
drift rate behaviour, which settles down to the regular drift pattern as the
pulsar intensity returns to normal. Thus, we find some very specific and well
correlated changes in the radio emission properties of PSR B0818-41 when the
emission restarts after a null. These could imply that the phenomenon of
nulling is associated with some kind of a "reset" of the pulsar radio emission
engine. We also present plausible explanations for some of the observed
behaviour, using the Partially Screened Gap model of the inner pulsar
accelerator.