We have studied the onset temperature of the superconductivity Tc_onset of
the organic superconductor (TMTSF)2ClO4, by precisely controlling the direction
of the magnetic field H. We compare the results of two samples with nearly the
same onset temperature but with different scattering relaxation time tau. We
revealed a complicated interplay of a variety of pair-breaking effects and
mechanisms that overcome these pair-breaking effects. In low fields, the linear
temperature dependences of the onset curves in the H-T phase diagrams are
governed by the orbital pair-breaking effect. The dips in the in-plane
field-angle phi dependence of Tc_onset, which were only observed in the
long-tau sample, provides definitive evidence that the field-induced
dimensional crossover enhances the superconductivity if the field direction is
more than about 19-degrees away from the a axis. In the high-field regime for
H//a, the upturn of the onset curve for the long-tau sample indicates a new
superconducting state that overcomes the Pauli pair-breaking effect but is
easily suppressed by impurity scatterings. The Pauli effect is also overcome
for H//b' by a realization of another state for which the maximum of
Tc_onset(phi) occurs in a direction different from the crystalline axes. The
effect on Tc_onset of tilting the applied field out of the conductive plane
suggests that the Pauli effect plays a significant role in determining
Tc_onset. The most plausible explanation of these results is that (TMTSF)2ClO4
is a singlet superconductor and exhibits Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov
(FFLO) states in high fields.