We analyzed light curves of seven relatively slower novae, PW Vul, V705 Cas,
GQ Mus, RR Pic, V5558 Sgr, HR Del, and V723 Cas, based on an optically thick
wind theory of nova outbursts. For fast novae, free-free emission dominates the
spectrum in optical bands rather than photospheric emission and nova optical
light curves follow the universal decline law. Faster novae blow stronger winds
with larger mass loss rates. Since the brightness of free-free emission depends
directly on the wind mass loss rate, faster novae show brighter optical maxima.
In slower novae, however, we must take into account photospheric emission
because of their lower wind mass loss rates. We calculated three model light
curves of free-free emission, photospheric emission, and the sum of them for
various WD masses with various chemical compositions of their envelopes, and
fitted reasonably with observational data of optical, near-IR (NIR), and UV
bands. From light curve fittings of the seven novae, we estimated their
absolute magnitudes, distances, and WD masses. In PW Vul and V705 Cas,
free-free emission still dominates the spectrum in the optical and NIR bands.
In the very slow novae, RR Pic, V5558 Sgr, HR Del, and V723 Cas, photospheric
emission dominates the spectrum rather than free-free emission, which makes a
deviation from the universal decline law. We have confirmed that the absolute
brightnesses of our model light curves are consistent with the distance moduli
of four classical novae with known distances (GK Per, V603 Aql, RR Pic, and DQ
Her). We also discussed the reason why the very slow novae are about 1 mag
brighter than the proposed maximum magnitude vs. rate of decline relation.