There has been much debate about the origin of the diffuse gamma--ray
background in the energy range from a few hundred keV to 10 MeV. At lower
energies, AGNs and Seyfert galaxies can explain the background, but their
contribution cuts off above $\simeq$ 0.3 MeV. In the MeV range, the spectrum
drops sharply for increasing energies. It flattens beyond $\sim$ 10 MeV, and
blazars appear to account for the fluxes observed there. That leaves an
unexplained window for which different candidate sources have been proposed,
including annihilations of weakly interacting massive particles (WIMPS). One
candidate are Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia). Previous estimates of SNe Ia to the
cosmic gamma--ray background were based on a restricted number of SN Ia
explosion models and, on very limited measurements of the SN Ia rates as a
function of redshift $z$. In the present work, we use a wide variety of
explosion models and the most recent measurements of the SN Ia rates, which now
cover a wide redshift interval. If we adopt the central values of the current
measurements of the SN Ia rates, the SN still fall short of the observed
background, which, however, has the same spectral shape as the predicted one.
Only for a fit running between the 1\,$\sigma$ and 2\,$\sigma$ upper limits of
the highest observed SN Ia rates, with their large error bars, it is possible
an agreement between model prediction and observations of the gamma--ray
background. Uncertainties are discussed and the conclusion is that SNe Ia do,
in any case, make a non--negligible contribution to the cosmic gamma--ray
background in the MeV range.