We report the serendipitous discovery of ``Einstein cross'' gravitational
lens candidates using the Hubble Space Telescope. We have so far discovered two
good examples of such lenses, each in the form of four faint blue images
located in a symmetric configuration around a red elliptical galaxy. The high
resolution of HST has facilitated the discovery of this optically selected
sample of faint lenses with small (~1 arcsec) separations between the (I ~
25-27) lensed components and the much brighter (I ~ 19-22) lensing galaxies.
The sample has been discovered in the routine processing of HST fields through
the Medium Deep Survey pipeline, which fits simple galaxy models to broad band
filter images of all objects detected in random survey fields using WFPC2.
  We show that the lens configuration can be modeled using the gravitational
field potential of a singular isothermal ellipsoidal mass distribution. With
this model the lensing potential is very similar, both in ellipticity and
orientation, to the observed light distribution of the elliptical galaxy, as
would occur when stars are a tracer population. The model parameters and
associated errors have been derived by 2-dimensional analysis of the observed
images. The maximum likelihood procedure iteratively converges simultaneously
on the model for the lensing elliptical galaxy and the source of the lensed
components. A systematic search is in progress for other gravitational lens
candidates in the HST Medium Deep Survey. This should eventually lead to a good
statistical estimate for lensing probabilities, and enable us to probe the
cosmological component of the observed faint blue galaxy population.