In spiral galaxies, the HI surface density declines with increasing radius to
a point where it is seen to truncate dramatically in the best observed cases.
It was anticipated that if the ambient radiation field is sufficiently strong,
there exists a maximum radius beyond which the cold gas is unable to support
itself against ionization. We have now succeeded in detecting ionized gas
beyond the observed HI disk in spirals. Here, we report on our findings for the
Sculptor galaxy NGC 253. The HI disks in Sculptor galaxies extend to only about
1.2 R_25 although we have detected ionized gas to the limits of our survey out
to 1.4 R_25. This has important ramifications for spiral galaxies in that it
now becomes possible to trace the gravitational potential beyond where the HI
disk ends. The detections confirm that the rotation curve continues to rise in
NGC 253, as it appears to do for other Sculptor galaxies from the HI
measurements, but there is a hint that the rotation curve may fall abruptly not
far beyond the edge of the HI disk. If this is correct, then it suggests that
the dark halo of NGC 253 may be truncated near the HI edge, and provides
further support for the link between dark matter and HI. The line ratios are
anomalous with [NII]6548/H-alpha ratios close to unity. While metallicities at
these large radii are uncertain, such enhanced ratios compared to
solar-abundance HII regions ([NII]/H-alpha = 0.05-0.2) are likely to require
selective heating of the electron population without further ionization of
N^++. We discuss the most likely sources of ionization and heating, and the
possible role of refractory element depletion (e.g. Ca, Si, Fe) onto dust
grains.