We present a deep study of the average hard X-ray spectra of Seyfert
galaxies. We analyzed all public INTEGRAL IBIS/ISGRI data available on all the
165 Seyfert galaxies detected at z<0.2. Our final sample consists of 44 Seyfert
1's, 29 Seyfert 1.5's, 78 Seyfert 2's, and 14 Narrow Line Seyfert 1's. We
derived the average hard X-ray spectrum of each subsample in the 17-250keV
energy range. All classes of Seyfert galaxies show on average the same nuclear
continuum, as foreseen by the zeroth order unified model, with a cut-off energy
of Ec>200keV, and a photon index of Gamma ~1.8. Compton-thin Seyfert 2's show a
reflection component stronger than Seyfert 1's and Seyfert 1.5's. Most of this
reflection is due to mildly obscured (10^23 cm^-2 < NH < 10^24 cm^-2) Seyfert
2's, which have a significantly stronger reflection component
(R=2.2^{+4.5}_{-1.1}) than Seyfert 1's (R<=0.4), Seyfert 1.5's (R<= 0.4) and
lightly obscured (NH < 10^23 cm^-2) Seyfert 2's (R<=0.5). This cannot be
explained easily by the unified model. The absorber/reflector in mildly
obscured Seyfert 2's might cover a large fraction of the X-ray source, and have
clumps of Compton-thick material. The large reflection found in the spectrum of
mildly obscured Seyfert 2's reduces the amount of Compton-thick objects needed
to explain the peak of the cosmic X-ray background. Our results are consistent
with the fraction of Compton-thick sources being ~10%. The spectra of Seyfert
2's with and without polarized broad lines do not show significant differences,
the only difference between the two samples being the higher hard X-ray and
bolometric luminosity of Seyfert 2's with polarized broad lines. The average
hard X-ray spectrum of Narrow line Seyfert 1's is steeper than those of Seyfert
1's and Seyfert 1.5's, probably due to a lower energy of the cutoff.