Based on a uniform dynamical analysis of line-profile shapes for 21 luminous
round elliptical galaxies, we have investigated the dynamical family relations
of ellipticals: (i) The circular velocity curves (CVCs) of elliptical galaxies
are flat to within ~10% for R>~0.2R_e. (ii) Most ellipticals are moderately
radially anisotropic; their dynamical structure is surprisingly uniform. (iii)
Elliptical galaxies follow a Tully-Fisher (TF) relation, with v_c^max=300 km/s
for an L_B^* galaxy. At given v_c^max, they are ~1 mag fainter in B and appear
to have slightly lower baryonic mass than spirals even for maximum M/L_B. (iv)
The luminosity dependence of M/L_B is confirmed. The tilt of the Fundamental
Plane is not caused by dynamical non-homology, nor only by an increasing dark
matter fraction with L. It is, however, consistent with stellar population
models based on published metallicities and ages. The main driver is therefore
probably metallicity, and a secondary population effect is needed to explain
the K-band tilt. (v) These results make it likely that elliptical galaxies have
nearly maximal M/L_B (minimal halos). (vi) Despite the uniformly flat CVCs,
there is a spread in cumulative M/L_B(r). Some galaxies have no indication for
dark matter within 2R_e, whereas others have local M/L_Bs of 20-30 at 2R_e.
(vii) In models with maximum stellar mass, the dark matter contributes ~10-40%
of the mass within R_e. (viii) The corresponding halo core densities and
phase-space densities are at least ~25 times larger and the halo core radii ~4
times smaller than in spiral galaxies of the same v_c^max. The increase in M/L
sets in at ~10 times larger acceleration than in spirals. This could imply that
elliptical galaxy halos collapsed at high redshift or that some of the dark
matter in ellipticals might be baryonic. (abridged)