By definition, Population III stars are metal-free, and their protostellar
collapse is driven by molecular hydrogen cooling in the gas-phase, leading to
large characteristic masses. Population II stars with lower characteristic
masses form when the star-forming gas reaches a critical metallicity of 10^{-6}
- 10^{-3.5} Z_\odot. We present an adaptive mesh refinement radiation
hydrodynamics simulation that follows the transition from Population III to II
star formation. The maximum spatial resolution of 1 comoving parsec allows for
individual molecular clouds to be well-resolved and their stellar associations
to be studied in detail. We model stellar radiative feedback with adaptive ray
tracing. A top-heavy initial mass function for the Population III stars is
considered, resulting in a plausible distribution of pair-instability
supernovae and associated metal enrichment. We find that the gas fraction
recovers from 5 percent to nearly the cosmic fraction in halos with merger
histories rich in halos above 10^7 solar masses. A single pair-instability
supernova is sufficient to enrich the host halo to a metallicity floor of
10^{-3} Z_\odot and to transition to Population II star formation. This
provides a natural explanation for the observed floor on damped Lyman alpha
(DLA) systems metallicities reported in the literature, which is of this order.
We find that stellar metallicities do not necessarily trace stellar ages, as
mergers of halos with established stellar populations can create superpositions
of t-Z evolutionary tracks. A bimodal metallicity distribution is created after
a starburst occurs when the halo can cool efficiently through atomic line
cooling.