We present 4-7 ks Chandra observations of 35 Broad Absorption Line (BAL)
quasars from the Large Bright Quasar Survey, the largest sample of sensitive,
0.5-8.0 keV X-ray observations of this class of quasars to date. The limited
ranges in both redshift (z=1.42-2.90) and UV luminosity (a factor of ~12) of
the sample also make it relatively uniform. Of 35 targets, 27 are detected for
a detection fraction of 77%, and we confirm previous studies that find BAL
quasars to be generally X-ray weak. Five of the eight non-detections are known
low-ionization BAL quasars, confirming reports of extreme X-ray weakness in
this subset (~10% of optically selected BAL quasars). Those BAL quasars with
the hardest X-ray spectra are also the X-ray weakest, consistent with the
interpretation that intrinsic absorption is the primary cause of X-ray weakness
in this class of quasars as a whole. Furthermore, the observed trend is not
consistent with simple neutral absorption, supporting findings from
spectroscopic observations of individual targets that BAL quasars typically
exhibit complex X-ray absorption (e.g., partially covering or ionized
absorbers). In sum, high-ionization BAL quasars are typically neither
intrinsically X-ray weak nor suffer from Compton-thick absorption. In general,
we find no evidence for correlations between X-ray weakness and UV
absorption-line properties, with the exception of a likely correlation between
the maximum outflow velocity of CIV absorption and the magnitude of X-ray
weakness. We discuss the implications of our results for disk-wind models of
BAL outflows in quasars. (abridged)