In this note we demonstrate the use of top polarization in the study of $t
\bar t$ resonances at the LHC, in the possible case where the dynamics implies
a non-zero top polarization. As a probe of top polarization we construct an
asymmetry in the decay-lepton azimuthal angle distribution (corresponding to
the sign of $\cos\phi_\ell$) in the laboratory. The asymmetry is non-vanishing
even for a symmetric collider like the LHC, where a positive $z$ axis is not
uniquely defined. The angular distribution of the leptons has the advantage of
being a faithful top-spin analyzer, unaffected by possible anomalous $tbW$
couplings, to linear order. We study, for purposes of demonstration, the case
of a $Z'$ as might exist in the little Higgs models. We identify kinematic cuts
which ensure that our asymmetry reflects the polarization in sign and
magnitude. We investigate possibilities at the LHC with two energy options:
$\sqrt{s} = 14$ TeV and $\sqrt{s} = 7$ TeV, as well as at the Tevatron. At the
LHC the model predicts net top quark polarization of the order of a few per
cent for $M_{Z'} \simeq 1200 $ GeV, being as high as $10 %$ for a smaller mass
of the $Z'$ of $700$ GeV and for the largest allowed coupling in the model, the
values being higher for the $7$ TeV option. These polarizations translate to a
deviation from the standard-model value of azimuthal asymmetry of up to about
$4%$ ($7%$) for $14$ ($7$) TeV LHC, whereas for the Tevatron, values as high as
$12%$ are attained. For the $14$ TeV LHC with an integrated luminosity of 10
fb$^{-1}$, these numbers translate into a $3 \sigma$ sensitivity over a large
part of the range $500 \lesssim M_{Z'} \lesssim 1500 $ GeV.