We find that hot jupiter host stars within the T$_\mathrm{eff}$ range
5900-6300K show lower Li abundances, by 0.14 dex, than stars without detected
planets. This offset has a significance at the level 7$\sigma$, pointing to a
stronger effect of planet formation on Li abundances when the planets are more
massive and migrate close to the star. However, we also find that the average v
\textit{sin}i of (a fraction of) stars with hot jupiters is higher on average
than for single stars in the same T$_\mathrm{eff}$ region, suggesting that
rotationally-induced mixing (and not the presence of planets) might be the
cause for a greater depletion of Li. We confirm that the mass-metallicity
dependence of the Li dip is extended towards [Fe/H] $\sim$ 0.4 dex (beginning
at [Fe/H] $\sim$ -0.4 dex for our stars) and that probably reflects the
mass-metallicity correlation of stars of the same T$_\mathrm{eff}$ on the Main
Sequence. We find that for the youngest stars ($<$ 1.5 Gyr) around the Li dip,
the depletion of Li increases with v \textit{sin}i values, as proposed by
rotationally-induced depletion models. This suggests that the Li dip consists
of fast rotators at young ages whereas the most Li-depleted old stars show
lower rotation rates (probably caused by the spin-down during their long
lifes). We have also explored the Li evolution with [Fe/H] taking advantage of
the metal-rich stars included in our sample. We find that Li abundance reaches
its maximum around solar metallicity but decreases in the most metal-rich
stars, as predicted by some models of Li Galactic production.