We compare Fourier spectra of photospheric velocity fields from very high
resolution IMaX observations to those from recent 3D numerical
magnetoconvection models. We carry out a proper comparison by synthesizing
spectral lines from the numerical models and then applying to them the adequate
residual instrumental degradation that affects the observational data. Also,
the validity of the usual observational proxies is tested by obtaining
synthetic observations from the numerical boxes and comparing the velocity
proxies to the actual velocity values from the numerical grid.
  For the observations, data from the SUNRISE/IMaX instrument with about 120 km
spatial resolution are used, thus allowing the calculation of observational
Fourier spectra well into the subgranular range. For the simulations, we use
four series of runs obtained with the STAGGER code and synthesize the IMaX
spectral line (FeI 5250.2 A) from them. Proxies for the velocity field are
obtained via Dopplergrams (vertical component) and local correlation tracking
(horizontal component).
  A very good match between observational and simulated Fourier power spectra
is obtained for the vertical velocity data for scales between 200 km and 6 Mm.
Instead, a clear vertical shift is obtained when the synthetic observations are
not degraded. The match for the horizontal velocity data is much less
impressive because of the inaccuracies of the LCT procedure. Concerning the
internal comparison of the direct velocity values of the numerical boxes with
those from the synthetic observations, a high correlation (0.96) is obtained
for the vertical component when using the velocity values on the
log($tau_{500}$) = -1 surface in the box. The corresponding Fourier spectra are
near each other. A lower maximum correlation (0.5) is reached (at $tau_{500}$ =
1) for the horizontal velocities as a result of the coarseness of the LCT
procedure.