We investigate the baseline range in which the $\theta_{23}$ degeneracy in
neutrino oscillation probabilities is absent for fixed values of $\theta_{13}$
and CP violation phase $\delta_{\rm CP}$. We begin by studying sensitivities of
neutrino oscillation probabilities to $\theta_{13}$, $\theta_{23}$ and
$\delta_{\rm CP}$ for very-long-baseline neutrino oscillations. We show contour
graphs of the muon-neutrino survival probability $P(\nu_{\mu}\to \nu_{\mu})$
and the appearance probability $P(\nu_e\to \nu_{\mu})$ on the $\cos
2\theta_{23}-\sin 2\theta_{13}$ plane for baseline lengths $L=1000, 5000, \
10000$, and 12000 km. For each baseline length, it is found that
$P(\nu_{\mu}\to \nu_{\mu})$ is more sensitive to $\sin 2\theta_{13}$ at
energies around its local maximum while it is more sensitive to $\cos
2\theta_{23}$ at energies around its local minimum. On the other hand, the
appearance probability $P(\nu_e\to \nu_{\mu})$ is sensitive to
$\sin2\theta_{13}$ and $\cos2\theta_{23}$ only near its local maximum. We
observe that the $\theta_{23}$ degeneracy in $P(\nu_{\mu}\to \nu_{\mu})$ is
absent at energies around the local maximum of this probability, provided
$\theta_{13}$ is sufficiently large. The $\theta_{23}$ degeneracy is also
absent in general near the local maximum of $P(\nu_e\to \nu_{\mu})$. Using
analytic approximations for neutrino oscillation probabilities, we demonstrate
that the above observations for $L=1000, 5000, 10000, {\rm and} 12000$ km are
in fact valid for all distances. The implications of these results on probing
the octant of $\theta_{23}$ are discussed in details.