Systems with long-range interactions can reach a Quasi Stationary State (QSS)
as a result of a violent collisionless relaxation. If the system mixes well
(ergodicity), the QSS can be predicted by the statistical theory of Lynden-Bell
(1967) based on the Vlasov equation. When the initial distribution takes only
two values, the Lynden-Bell distribution is similar to the Fermi-Dirac
statistics. Such distributions have recently been observed in direct numerical
simulations of the HMF model (Antoniazzi et al. 2006). In this paper, we
determine the caloric curve corresponding to the Lynden-Bell statistics in
relation with the HMF model and analyze the dynamical and thermodynamical
stability of spatially homogeneous solutions by using two general criteria
previously introduced in the literature. We express the critical energy and the
critical temperature as a function of a degeneracy parameter fixed by the
initial condition. Below these critical values, the homogeneous Lynden-Bell
distribution is not a maximum entropy state but an unstable saddle point. We
apply these results to the situation considered by Antoniazzi et al. For a
given energy, we find a critical initial magnetization above which the
homogeneous Lynden-Bell distribution ceases to be a maximum entropy state,
contrary to the claim of these contributors. For an energy U=0.69, this transition
occurs above an initial magnetization M_{x}=0.897. In that case, the system
should reach an inhomogeneous Lynden-Bell distribution (most mixed) or an
incompletely mixed state (possibly fitted by a Tsallis distribution). Thus, our
theoretical study proves that the dynamics is different for small and large
initial magnetizations, in agreement with numerical results of Pluchino et al.
(2004). This new dynamical phase transition may reconcile the two communities.