This paper studies iteration convergence of Kronecker graphical lasso
(KGLasso) algorithms for estimating the covariance of an i.i.d. Gaussian random
sample under a sparse Kronecker-product covariance model and MSE convergence
rates. The KGlasso model, originally called the transposable regularized
covariance model by Allen ["Transposable regularized covariance models with an
application to missing data imputation," Ann. Appl. Statist., vol. 4, no. 2,
pp. 764-790, 2010], implements a pair of $\ell_1$ penalties on each Kronecker
factor to enforce sparsity in the covariance estimator. The KGlasso algorithm
generalizes Glasso, introduced by Yuan and Lin ["Model selection and estimation
in the Gaussian graphical model," Biometrika, vol. 94, pp. 19-35, 2007] and
Banerjee ["Model selection through sparse maximum likelihood estimation for
multivariate Gaussian or binary data," J. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 9, pp.
485-516, Mar. 2008], to estimate covariances having Kronecker product form. It
also generalizes the unpenalized ML flip-flop (FF) algorithm of Dutilleul ["The
MLE algorithm for the matrix normal distribution," J. Statist. Comput. Simul.,
vol. 64, pp. 105-123, 1999] and Werner ["On estimation of covariance matrices
with Kronecker product structure," IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 56, no. 2,
pp. 478-491, Feb. 2008] to estimation of sparse Kronecker factors. We establish
that the KGlasso iterates converge pointwise to a local maximum of the
penalized likelihood function. We derive high dimensional rates of convergence
to the true covariance as both the number of samples and the number of
variables go to infinity. Our results establish that KGlasso has significantly
faster asymptotic convergence than Glasso and FF. Simulations are presented
that validate the results of our analysis.