We present the first spatially resolved spectrum of scattered light from the
TW Hydrae protoplanetary disk. This nearly face-on disk is optically thick,
surrounding a classical T Tauri star in the nearby 10 Myr old TW Hya
association. The spectrum was taken with the HST-STIS CCD, providing resolution
R ~ 360 over the wavelength range 5250 - 10300 A. Spatially resolved
spectroscopy of circumstellar disks is difficult due to the high contrast ratio
between the bright star and faint disk. Our novel observations provide optical
spectra of scattered light from the disk between 40 AU and 155 AU from the
star. The scattered light has the same color as the star (gray scattering) at
all radii, except the innermost region. This likely indicates that the
scattering dust grains are larger than about 1 micron all the way out to large
radii. From the spectroscopic data, we also obtained radial profiles of the
integrated disk brightness at two position angles, over almost the same region
as previously observed in HST-WFPC2 and NICMOS coronagraphic images (35 AU to
173 AU from the star). The profiles have the same shape as the earlier ones,
but show a small azimuthal asymmetry in the disk not previously noted. Our STIS
broad-band coronagraphic images of TW Hya confirm the reality of this
asymmetry, and show that the disk surface brightness interior to 140 AU has a
sinusoidal dependence on azimuthal angle. The maximum brightness occurs at a
position angle of 233.6 +/- 5.7 degrees East of North. This might be caused by
the combination of forward-scattering and an increase in inclination in the
inner region of the disk, suggesting that the TW Hya disk has a warp like that
seen in the Beta Pictoris debris disk.