The elicitation of an ordinal judgment on multiple alternatives is often
required in many psychological and behavioral experiments to investigate
preference/choice orientation of a specific population. The Plackett-Luce model
is one of the most popular and frequently applied parametric distributions to
analyze partial top rankings of a finite set of items. The present work
introduces a Bayesian finite mixture of Plackett-Luce models, that extends a
device recently proposed in the literature in order to account for unobserved
sample heterogeneity of ranked data. We describe an efficient way to
incorporate the latent group structure in the data augmentation approach and
the derivation of existing maximum likelihood procedures as special instances
of the proposed Bayesian method. Inference can be conducted with the
combination of the Expectation-Maximization algorithm for maximum a posteriori
estimation and the Gibbs sampling iterative procedure. Our contribution also
focuses on the practical impact of the identifiability issues that prevent from
a straightforward implementation of the mixture modeling. We extensively
investigate the label-switching phenomenon and describe the implementation of
several relabeling algorithms to obtain meaningful posterior estimates. We
additionally discuss Bayesian model checking and diagnostic tools for assessing
parametric ranking distributions. Specifically, we perform posterior predictive
check of goodness-of-fit by means of a discrepancy measure based on paired
comparisons. The utility of the novel Bayesian Plackett-Luce mixture is
illustrated with several applications to both simulated ranked data and real
preference data.