We present a theoretical study of the role of the local environment in the
electronic properties of carbon nanotubes: isolated single- and multi-wall
nanotubes, nanotube-ropes, tubes supported on gold and cutted to finite length.
Interaction with the substrate or with other tubes does not alter the
scanning-tunneling-microscopy (STM) patterns observed for isolated tubes.
STM-topographic images of topological defects (pentagon/heptagon pair) and
tube-caps have also been studied. In both cases the obtained image depends on
the sign of the applied voltage and it can be described in terms of the
previous catalog of STM-images (interference between electronic waves scattered
by the defect). We also have computed the electronic density of states for
isolated tubes with different chiralities and radii confirming a correlation
between the peak-structure in the DOS and the nanotube diameter, however the
metallic plateau in the DOS also depends on the nanotube chirality.
Furthermore, the conduction and valence band structures are not fully
symmetrical to one another. In contrast to STM images, the interaction with the
substrate does modify the energy levels of the nanotube. We observe opening of
small pseudogaps around the Fermi level and broadening of the sharp van Hove
singularities of the isolated single-walled-nanotubes that can be used to
extract useful information about the tube structure and bonding. The
combination of STM and spectroscopic studies opens a new technique to address
the electronic and structural properties of carbon and composite nanotubes.