The available data for E2 transition strengths in the region between
neutron-deficient Hf and Pt isotopes are far from complete. More and precise
data are needed to enhance the picture of structure evolution in this region
and to test state-of-the-art nuclear models. In a simple model, the maximum
collectivity is expected at the middle of the major shell. However, for actual
nuclei, this picture may no longer be the case, and one should use a more
realistic nuclear-structure model. We address this point by studying the
spectroscopy of Hf. We remeasure the 2^+_1 half-lives of 172,174,176Hf, for
which there is some disagreement in the literature. The main goal is to
measure, for the first time, the half-lives of higher-lying states of the
rotational band. The new results are compared to a theoretical calculation for
absolute transition strengths. The half-lives were measured using \gamma-\gamma
and conversion-electron-\gamma delayed coincidences with the fast timing
method. For the determination of half-lives in the picosecond region, the
generalized centroid difference method was applied. For the theoretical
calculation of the spectroscopic properties, the interacting boson model is
employed, whose Hamiltonian is determined based on microscopic energy-density
functional calculations. The measured 2^+_1 half-lives disagree with results
from earlier \gamma-\gamma fast timing measurements, but are in agreement with
data from Coulomb excitation experiments and other methods. Half-lives of the
4^+_1 and 6^+_1 states were measured, as well as a lower limit for the 8^+_1
states. We show the importance of the mass-dependence of effective boson charge
in the description of E2 transition rates in chains of nuclei. It encourages
further studies of the microscopic origin of this mass dependence. New data on
transition rates in nuclei from neighboring isotopic chains could support these
studies.