Results of a systematic theoretical study of collisions between moving
solitons in a fiber grating are presented. Various outcomes of the collision
are identified, the most interesting one being merger of the solitons into a
single zero-velocity pulse, which suggests a way to create pulses of ``standing
light". The merger occurs with the solitons whose energy takes values between
0.15 and 0.35 of the limit value, while their velocity is limited by about 0.2
of the limit light velocity in the fiber. If the energy is larger, another
noteworthy outcome is acceleration of the solitons as a result of the
collision. In the case of mutual passage of the solitons, inelasticity of the
collision is quantified by the energy-loss share. Past the soliton's stability
limit, the collision results in strong deformation and subsequent destruction
of the solitons. Simulations of multiple collisions of two solitons in a
fiber-loop configuration are performed too. In this case, the maximum velocity
admitting the merger increases to about 0.4 of the limit velocity. Influence of
an attractive local defect on the collision is also studied, with a conclusion
that the defect does not alter the overall picture, although it traps a
small-amplitude pulse. Related effects in single-soliton dynamics are
considered too, such as transformation of an input sech signal into a gap
soliton (which is quantified by the share of lost energy), and the rate of
decay of a quiescent gap soliton in a finite fiber grating, due to energy
leakage through loose edges.