Realistic fusion barriers are calculated in a macroscopic-microscopic model
for several soft-fusion heavy-ion reactions leading to heavy and superheavy
elements. The results obtained in such a realistic picture are very different
from those obtained in a purely macroscopic model. For reactions on 208:Pb
targets, shell effects in the entrance channel result in fusion-barrier
energies at the touching point that are only a few MeV higher than the ground
state for compound systems near Z = 110. The entrance-channel fragment-shell
effects remain far inside the touching point, almost to configurations only
slightly more elongated than the ground-state configuration, where the fusion
barrier has risen to about 10 MeV above the ground-state energy. Calculated
single-particle level diagrams show that few level crossings occur until the
peak in the fusion barrier very close to the ground-state shape is reached,
which indicates that dissipation is negligible until very late in the fusion
process. Whereas the fission valley in a macroscopic picture is several tens of
MeV lower in energy than is the fusion valley, we find in the
macroscopic-microscopic picture that the fission valley is only about 5 MeV
lower than the fusion valley for soft-fusion reactions leading to compound
systems near Z = 110. These results show that no significant
``extra-extra-push'' energy is needed to bring the system inside the fission
saddle point and that the typical reaction energies for maximum cross section
in heavy-element synthesis correspond to only a few MeV above the maximum in
the fusion barrier.