We statistically study the property of emerging flux regions (EFRs) and the
upper solar atmosphere response to the flux emergence by using data from the
Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager (HMI) and the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly
(AIA) on board the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). Parameters including the
total emerged flux, the flux growth rate, the maximum area, the duration of the
emergence and the separation speed of the opposite polarities are adopted to
delineate the property of the EFRs. The response of the upper atmosphere is
addressed by the response of the atmosphere at different wavelengths (and thus
at different temperatures). According to our results, the total emerged fluxes
are in the range of (0.44 -- 11.2)$\times10^{19}$ Mx while the maximum area
ranges from 17 to 182 arcsec$^2$. The durations of the emergence are between 1
and 12 hours, which are positively correlated to both the total emerged flux
and the maximum area. The maximum distances between the opposite polarities are
7 -- 25 arcsec and are also correlated to the duration positively. The
separation speeds are from 0.05 to 1.08 km s$^{-1}$, negatively correlated to
the duration. The derived flux growth rates are (0.1 -- 1.3)$\times10^{19}$ Mx
hr$^{-1}$, which are positively correlated to the total emerging flux. The
upper atmosphere responds to the flux emergence in the 1600\AA\ chromospheric
line first, and then tens and hundreds of seconds later, in coronal lines, such
as the 171\AA\ (T=10$^{5.8}$ K) and 211\AA\ (T=10$^{6.3}$ K) lines almost
simultaneously, suggesting the successively heating of atmosphere from the
chromosphere to the corona.