We report a high field investigation (up to 45 T) of the metamagnetic
transition in CeIrIn$_5$ with resistivity and de-Haas-van-Alphen (dHvA) effect
measurements in the temperature range 0.03-1 K. As the magnetic field is
increased the resistivity increases, reaches a maximum at the metamagnetic
critical field, and falls precipitously for fields just above the transition,
while the amplitude of all measurable dHvA frequencies are significantly
attenuated near the metamagnetic critical field. However, the dHvA frequencies
and cyclotron masses are not substantially altered by the transition. In the
low field state, the resistivity is observed to increase toward low
temperatures in a singular fashion, a behavior that is rapidly suppressed above
the transition. Instead, in the high field state, the resistivity monotonically
increases with temperature with a dependence that is more singular than the
iconic Fermi-liquid, temperature-squared, behavior. Both the damping of the
dHvA amplitudes and the increased resistivity near the metamagnetic critical
field indicate an increased scattering rate for charge carriers consistent with
critical fluctuation scattering in proximity to a phase transition. The dHvA
amplitudes do not uniformly recover above the critical field, with some
hole-like orbits being entirely suppressed at high fields. These changes, taken
as a whole, suggest that the metamagnetic transition in CeIrIn$_5$ is
associated with the polarization and localization of the heaviest of
quasiparticles on the hole-like Fermi surface.