Techniques like inelastic X-ray scattering (IXS) and nuclear resonance
scattering (NRS) are currently limited by the photon flux available at X-ray
sources. At $14.4$ keV, third generation synchrotron radiation sources produce
a maximum of $10^{10}$ photons per second in a meV bandwidth. In this work we
discuss about the possibility of increasing this flux a thousand-fold by
exploiting high repetition rate self-seeded pulses at the European XFEL. Here
we report on a feasibility study for an optimized configuration of the SASE2
beamline at the European XFEL which combines self-seeding and undulator
tapering techniques in order to increase the average spectral flux at $14.4$
keV. In particular, we propose to perform monochromatization at $7.2$ keV with
the help of self-seeding, and amplify the seed in the first part of output
undulator. The amplification process can be stopped at a position well before
saturation, where the electron beam gets considerable bunching at the 2nd
harmonic of the coherent radiation. A second part of the output undulator
follows, tuned to the 2nd harmonic frequency, i.e. at $14.4$ keV and is used to
obtain saturation at this energy. One can further prolong the exchange of
energy between the photon and the electron beam by tapering the last part of
the output undulator. We performed start-to-end simulations and demonstrate
that self-seeding, combined with undulator tapering, allows one to achieve more
than a hundred-fold increase in average spectral flux compared with the nominal
SASE regime at saturation, resulting in a maximum flux of order $10^{13}$
photons per second in a meV bandwidth.