In this paper, we perform a comparative segmentation and clustering analysis
of the time series for the ten Dow Jones US economic sector indices between 14
February 2000 and 31 August 2008. From the temporal distributions of clustered
segments, we find that the US economy took one and a half years to recover from
the mid-1998-to-mid-2003 financial crisis, but only two months to completely
enter the present financial crisis. We also find the oil & gas and basic
materials sectors leading the recovery from the previous financial crisis,
while the consumer goods and utilities sectors led the descent into the present
financial crisis. On a macroscopic level, we find sectors going earlier into a
crisis emerge later from it, whereas sectors going later into the crisis emerge
earlier. On the mesoscopic level, we find leading sectors experiencing stronger
and longer volatility shocks, while trailing sectors experience weaker and
shorter volatility shocks. In our shock-by-shock causal-link analysis, we also
find shorter delays between corresponding shocks in more closely related
economic sectors. In addition, our analysis reveals evidences for complex
sectorial structures, as well as nonlinear amplification in the propagating
volatility shocks. From a perspective relevant to public policy, our study
suggests an endogeneous sectorial dynamics during the mid-2003 economic
recovery, in contrast to strong exogeneous driving by Federal Reserve interest
rate cuts during the mid-2007 onset. Most interestingly, we find for the
sequence of closely spaced interest rate cuts instituted in 2007/2008, the
first few cuts effectively lowered market volatilities, while the next few cuts
counter-effectively increased market volatilities. Subsequent cuts evoked
little response from the market.