The continuous high-precision photometric observations provided by the CoRoT
and Kepler space missions have allowed us to better understand the structure
and dynamics of red giants using asteroseismic techniques. A small fraction of
these stars shows dipole modes with unexpectedly low amplitudes. The reduction
in amplitude is more pronounced for stars with higher frequency of maximum
power. In this work we want to characterize KIC 8561221 in order to confirm
that it is currently the least evolved star among this peculiar subset and to
discuss several hypotheses that could help explain the reduction of the dipole
mode amplitudes. We used Kepler short- and long-cadence data combined with
spectroscopic observations to infer the stellar structure and dynamics of KIC
8561221. We then discussed different scenarios that could contribute to the
reduction of the dipole amplitudes such as a fast rotating interior or the
effect of a magnetic field on the properties of the modes. We also performed a
detailed study of the inertia and damping of the modes. We have been able to
characterize 37 oscillations modes, in particular, a few dipole modes above
nu_max that exhibit nearly normal amplitudes. We have inferred a surface
rotation period of around 91 days and uncovered the existence of a variation in
the surface magnetic activity during the last 4 years. As expected, the
internal regions of the star probed by the l = 2 and 3 modes spin 4 to 8 times
faster than the surface. With our grid of standard models we are able to
properly fit the observed frequencies. Our model calculation of mode inertia
and damping give no explanation for the depressed dipole modes. A fast rotating
core is also ruled out as a possible explanation. Finally, we do not have any
observational evidence of the presence of a strong deep magnetic field inside
the star.