We use models of thermal evolution and XUV-driven mass loss to explore the
composition and history of low-mass low-density transiting planets. We
investigate the Kepler-11 system in detail and provide estimates of both the
current and past planetary compositions. We find that a H/He atmosphere on
Kepler-11b is highly vulnerable to mass loss. By comparing to formation models,
we show that in situ formation of the system is unlikely. Instead we propose
that it is a water-rich system of sub-Neptunes that migrated from beyond the
snow line. For the broader population of observed planets, we show that there
is a threshold in bulk planet density and incident flux above which no low-mass
transiting planets have been observed. We suggest that this threshold is due to
the instability of H/He atmospheres to XUV-driven mass loss. Importantly, we
find that this flux-density threshold is well reproduced by our thermal
evolution/contraction models that incorporate a standard mass loss
prescription. Treating the planets' contraction history is essential because
the planets have significantly larger radii during the early era of high XUV
fluxes. Over time low mass planets with H/He envelopes can be transformed into
water-dominated worlds with steam atmospheres or rocky super-Earths. Finally,
we use this threshold to provide likely minimum masses and radial velocity
amplitudes for the general population of Kepler candidates. Likewise, we use
this threshold to provide constraints on the maximum radii of low-mass planets
found by radial velocity surveys.