The generation of watt-level cw narrow-linewidth sources at specific deep UV
wavelengths corresponding to atomic cooling transitions usually employs
external cavity-enhanced second-harmonic generation (SHG) of moderate-power
visible lasers in birefringent materials. In this work, we investigate a novel
approach to cw deep-UV generation by employing the low-loss BBO in a monolithic
walkoff-compensating structure [Zondy {\it{et al}}, J. Opt. Soc. Am. B
{\bf{20}} (2003) 1675] to simultaneously enhance the effective nonlinear
coefficient while minimizing the UV beam ellipticity under tight focusing. As a
preliminary step to cavity-enhanced operation, and in order to apprehend the
design difficulties stemming from the extremely low acceptance angle of BBO, we
investigate and analyze the single-pass performance of a $L_c=8 $mm monolithic
walk-off compensating structure made of 2 optically-contacted BBO plates cut
for type-I critically phase-matched SHG of a cw $\lambda=570.4$nm dye laser. As
compared with a bulk crystal of identical length, a sharp UV efficiency
enhancement factor of 1.65 has been evidenced with the tandem structure, but at
$\sim-1$nm from the targeted fundamental wavelength, highlighting the
sensitivity of this technique when applied to a highly birefringent material
such as BBO. Solutions to angle cut residual errors are identified so as to
match accurately more complex periodic-tandem structure performance to any
target UV wavelength, opening the prospect for high-power, good beam quality
deep UV cw laser sources for atom cooling and trapping.