We describe very fast electron dynamics for a graphene nanoribbon driven by a
control electromagnetic field in the terahertz regime. The mobility as a
function of bias possesses a large threshold value when entering a nonlinear
transport regime. This value depends on the temperature, electron density,
impurity scattering strength, nanoribbon width and correlation length for the
line-edge roughness. An enhanced electron mobility beyond this threshold has
been observed, which is related to the initially-heated electrons in high
energy states with a larger group velocity. However, this mobility enhancement
quickly reaches a maximum governed by the Fermi velocity in graphene and the
dramatically increased phonon scattering. Super-linear and sub-linear
temperature dependences of the mobility are seen in the linear and nonlinear
transport regimes, which is attributed separately to the results of sweeping
electrons from the right Fermi edge to the left one through elastic scattering
and moving electrons from low-energy states to high-energy ones through
field-induced electron heating. The threshold field is pushed up by a decreased
correlation length in the high field regime, and is further accompanied by a
reduced magnitude in the mobility enhancement. This implies an anomalous
high-field increase of the line-edge roughness scattering with decreasing
correlation length due to the occupation of high-energy states by field-induced
electron heating. Additionally, a self-consistent device modeling has been
proposed for graphene transistors under an optical modulation on its gate,
which employs Boltzmann moment equations up to the third order for describing
fast carrier dynamics and full wave electromagnetics coupled to the Boltzmann
equation for describing spatial-temporal dependence of the total field.