We present the geospatial methods in conjunction with results of a newly
developed storm surge and sub-grid inundation model which was applied in New
York City during Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Sub-grid modeling takes a novel
approach for partial wetting and drying within grid cells, eschewing the
conventional hydrodynamic modeling method by nesting a sub-grid containing
high-resolution lidar topography and fine scale bathymetry within each
computational grid cell. In doing so, the sub-grid modeling method is heavily
dependent on building and street configuration provided by the DEM. The results
of spatial comparisons between the sub-grid model and FEMA's maximum inundation
extents in New York City yielded an unparalleled absolute mean distance
difference of 38m and an average of 75% areal spatial match. An in-depth error
analysis reveals that the modeled extent contour is well correlated with the
FEMA extent contour in most areas, except in several distinct areas where
differences in special features cause significant de-correlations between the
two contours. Examples of these errors were found to be primarily attributed to
lack of building representation in the New Jersey region of the model grid,
occluded highway underpasses artificially blocking fluid flow, and DEM source
differences between the model and FEMA. Accurate representation of these urban
infrastructural features is critical in terms of sub-grid modeling, because it
uniquely affects the fluid flux through each grid cell side, which ultimately
determines the water depth and extent of flooding via distribution of water
volume within each grid cell. Incorporation of buildings and highway
underpasses allow for the model to improve overall absolute mean distance error
metrics from 38m to 32m and area comparisons from 75% spatial match to 80% with
minimal additional effort.