I construct a near-IR star count map of the LMC and demonstrate, using the
viewing angles derived in Paper I, that the LMC is intrinsically elongated. I
argue that this is due to the tidal force from the Milky Way. The near-IR data
from the 2MASS and DENIS surveys are used to create a star count map of RGB and
AGB stars, which is interpreted through ellipse fitting. The radial number
density profile is approximately exponential with a scale-length 1.3-1.5 kpc.
However, there is an excess density at large radii that may be due to the tidal
effect of the Milky Way. The position angle and ellipticity profile converge to
PA_maj = 189.3 +/- 1.4 degrees and epsilon = 0.199 +/- 0.008 for r > 5 deg. At
large radii there is a drift of the center of the star count contours towards
the near side of the plane, which can be undrestood as due to viewing
perspective. The fact that PA_maj differes from the line of nodes position
angle Theta = 122.5 +/- 8.3 (cf. Paper I) indicates that the LMC disk is not
circular, but has an intrinsic ellipticity of 0.31. The LMC is elongated in the
general direction of the Galactic center, and is elongated perpendicular to the
Magellanic Stream and the velocity vector of the LMC center of mass. This
suggests that the elongation of the LMC has been induced by the tidal force of
the Milky Way. The position angle of the line of nodes differs from the
position angle Theta_max of the line of maximum line of sight velocity
gradient: Theta_max - Theta = 20-60 degrees. This could be due to: (a)
streaming along non-circular orbits in the elongated disk; (b) uncertainties in
the transverse motion of the LMC center of mass; (c) precession and nutation of
the LMC disk as it orbits the Milky Way (expected on theoretical grounds).
[Abridged]