We used the Pixelised Wavelet Filtering (PWF) method to compute narrow-band
power maps of SDO/AIA imaging datasets in the 1700 \AA{}, 1600 \AA{} and 304
\AA{} bandpasses that correspond to different heights. The cut-off frequency
was defined as contours where the spectral power droped to the median level. It
was measured as a function of the spatial location. We inferred the magnetic
field inclination according to the MAG wave theory in the low-$\beta$ limit and
compared it with the potential field extrapolation.{We analysed intensity
oscillations in a symmetric sunspot AR11131(08 Dec 2010) and an asymmetric
sunspot AR11330 (27 Oct 2011). We reconstructed the magnetic field inclination
in the radial direction for the symmetric sunspot and in both radial and
azimuthal directions for the asymmetric sunspot. We observed 3D variation of
the main oscillation periods in sunspots. We found that shorter-period
oscillations were mostly constrained in sunspot umbrae, while longer-period
oscillations formed an annular shape enclosing the umbra. Longer periods are
found to be distributed further away from the sunspot centre. Our results
indicate that 3-min oscillation are generated in the chromosphere, possibly by
the acoustic resonator model, while 5-min and longer-period oscillations seemed
to originate in a level under the photosphere. The reconstructed field
inclinations gives the values of the field inclination that are systematically
larger than the values obtained by the potential field extrapolation. The
inclined magnetic field line can account for 60-80% of cut-offfrequency
lowering only.