We present gas mass fractions of 38 massive galaxy clusters spanning
redshifts from 0.14 to 0.89, derived from Chandra X-ray data and OVRO/BIMA
interferometric Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect measurements. We use three models for
the gas distribution: (1) an isothermal beta-model fit jointly to the X-ray
data at radii beyond 100 kpc and to all of the SZE data,(2) a non-isothermal
double beta-model fit jointly to all of the X-ray and SZE data, and (3) an
isothermal beta-model fit only to the SZE spatial data. We show that the simple
isothermal model well characterizes the intracluster medium (ICM) outside of
the cluster core in clusters with a wide range of morphological properties. The
X-ray and SZE determinations of mean gas mass fractions for the 100 kpc-cut
isothermal beta-model are fgas(X-ray)=0.110 +0.003-0.003 +0.006-0.018 and
fgas(SZE)=0.116 +0.005-0.005 +0.009-0.026, where uncertainties are statistical
followed by systematic at 68% confidence. For the non-isothermal double
beta-model, fgas(X-ray)=0.119 +0.003-0.003 +0.007-0.014 and fgas(SZE)=0.121
+0.005-0.005 +0.009-0.016. For the SZE-only model, fgas(SZE)=0.120 +0.009-0.009
+0.009-0.027. Our results indicate that the ratio of the gas mass fraction
within r2500 to the cosmic baryon fraction is 0.68 +0.10-0.16 where the range
includes statistical and systematic uncertainties. By assuming that cluster gas
mass fractions are independent of redshift, we find that the results are in
agreement with standard LambdaCDM cosmology and are inconsistent with a flat
matter dominated universe.