Radio occultations of Saturn's main rings by spacecraft suggest a power law
particle size-distribution down to sizes of the order of 1 cm (Marouf et al.,
1983), (Zebker et al., 1985). The lack of optical depth variations between
ultraviolet and near-IR wavelengths indicate a lack of micron-sized particles.
Between these two regimes, the particle-size distribution is largely unknown. A
cutoff where the particle-size distribution turns over must exist, but the
position and shape of it is not clear from existing studies.
  Using a series of solar occultations performed by the VIMS instrument
on-board Cassini in the near-infrared, we are able to measure light forward
scattered by particles in the A and C rings. With a model of diffraction by
ring particles, and the previous radio work as a constraint on the slope of the
particle size distribution, we estimate the minimum particle size using a
truncated power-law size distribution. The C Ring shows a minimum particle size
of $4.1^{+3.8}_{-1.3}$ mm, with an assumed power law index of q=3.1 and a
maximum particle size of 10 m.
  The A Ring signal shows a similar level of scattered flux, but modeling is
complicated by the presence of self-gravity wakes and higher optical depths. If
q<3, our A Ring model requires a minimum particle size below one millimeter (<
0.34 mm for an assumed q=2.75, or $0.56^{+0.35}_{-0.16}$ mm for a steeper
q=2.9) to be consistent with VIMS observations. These results might seem to
contradict previous optical(Dones et al., 1993) and infrared (French and
Nicholson, 2000) work, which implied that there were few particles in the A
Ring smaller than 1 cm. But, because of the shallow power law, relatively
little optical depth (between 0.03 and 0.16 in extinction, or 0.015 - 0.08 in
absorption) is provided by these particles.