In this study, new observations and some results of statistical analyses are
presented. The largest flare data set of DO Cep in the literature has been
obtained with 89 flares detected in 67.61 hours of U-band flare patrol. First
of all, the observations demonstrated that the star is one of the most active
flare stars in respect to the computed flare frequency. Secondly, using the
independent samples t-test, the detected flares were classified into two
subtypes, and then they were modelled. Analysing the models demonstrated that
the fast and slow flares occurring on the star can be separated with a critical
value of the ratio of their decay time to rise time. The critical value was
computed as 3.40. According to this value, the fast flare rate is 20.22%, while
the slow flare rate is 79.78%. Besides, there is a 39.282 times difference
between the energies of these two types of flares. However, the flare
equivalent durations versus the flare rise times increase in similar ways for
both groups. In addition, all all the flares were modelled with the one-phase
exponential association function. Analysing this model, the plateau value was
found to be 2.810. Moreover, the half-life value was computed as 433.1s from
the model. The maximum flare rise time was found to be 1164s, while the maximum
flare total duration was found to be 3472s. The results of the flare timescales
indicate that the geometry of the flaring loop on the surface of the star might
be similar to those seen on analogues of DO Cep. Consequently, considering both
the half-life value and flare timescales, the flares detected on the surface of
DO Cep get maximum energy in longer times, while the geometries of the flaring
loops or areas get smaller.