We study the jet kinematics of the blazar S5 0716+714 during its active state
in 2003-2004 with multi-epoch VLBI observations. Aims. We present a kinematic
analysis of the large-scale (0-12 mas) jet of 0716+714, based on the results of
six epochs of VLBA monitoring at 5 GHz. Additionally, we compare kinematic
results obtained with two imaging methods based on different deconvolution
algorithms. The blazar 0716+714 has a diffuse large-scale jet and a very faint
bright compact core. Experiments with simulated data showed that the
conventional data reduction procedure based on the CLEAN deconvolution
algorithm does not perform well in restoring this type of structure. This might
be the reason why previous kinematic studies of this source yielded ambiguous
results. In order to obtain accurate kinematics of this source, we
independently applied two imaging techniques to the raw data: the conventional
method, based on difference mapping, which uses CLEAN deconvolution, and the
generalized maximum entropy method (GMEM) realized in the VLBImager package
developed at the Pulkovo Observatory in Russia. The results of both methods
give us a consistent kinematic scenario: the large-scale jet of 0716+714 is
diffuse and stationary. Differences between the inner (0-1 mas) and outer (1-12
mas) regions of the jet in brightness and velocity of the components could be
explained by the bending of the jet, which causes the angle between the jet
direction and the line of sight to change from ~5 deg to ~11 deg. For the
source 0716+714 both methods worked at the limit of their capability.