We present a brief summary of the Single Degenerate Scenario for the
progenitors of Type Ia Supernovae in which it is assumed that a low mass
carbon-oxygen white dwarf is growing in mass as a result of accretion from a
secondary star in a close binary system. Recent hydrodynamic simulations of
accretion of solar material onto white dwarfs without mixing always produce a
thermonuclear runaway and steady burning does not occur. For a broad range in
WD mass (0.4 Solar masses to 1.35 Solar Masses), the maximum ejected material
occurs for the 1.25 Solar Mass sequences and then decreases as the white dwarf
mass decreases. Therefore, the white dwarfs are growing in mass as a
consequence of the accretion of solar material and as long as there is no
mixing of accreted material with core material. In contrast, a thermonuclear
runaway in the accreted hydrogen-rich layers on the low luminosity WDs in close
binary systems where mixing of core matter with accreted material has occurred
is the outburst mechanism for Classical, Recurrent, and Symbiotic novae. The
differences in characteristics of these systems is likely the WD mass and mass
accretion rate. The high levels of enrichment of CN ejecta in elements ranging
from carbon to sulfur confirm that there is dredge-up of matter from the core
of the WD and enable them to contribute to the chemical enrichment of the
interstellar medium. Therefore, studies of CNe can lead to an improved
understanding of Galactic nucleosynthesis, some sources of pre-solar grains,
and the Extragalactic distance scale. The characteristics of the outburst
depend on the white dwarf mass, luminosity, mass accretion rate, and the
chemical composition of both the accreting material and WD material. The
properties of the outburst also depends on when, how, and if the accreted
layers are mixed with the WD core and the mixing mechanism is still unknown.