We have mapped with the IRAM interferometer at Plateau de Bure (PdBI) the
12CO emission towards intergalactic star forming regions located in the tidal
tail stemming from NGC7319, in the Stephan's Quintet compact group of galaxies.
The 13CO emission of the same region was observed with the IRAM 30m telescope
and optical spectroscopy of several HII regions in the area were obtained with
the Calar Alto 3.5m telescope. We recovered with the interferometer about 50%
of the CO(1-0) total emission that had been earlier measured with single dish
observations. We find two main areas of CO emission: (i) an elongated region
towards the area known as SQ B where a Tidal Dwarf Galaxy could currently be
forming (ii) a barely resolved area at the tip of the optical tidal arm. Both
regions follow dust lanes visible on HST images and their CO peak coincides
spatially exactly with the maximum of the Halpha line emission. In SQ B, there
is furthermore very good kinematical agreement between the CO, Halpha and HI
components. We conclude from these coincidences that the gaseous matter found
in quantities in the area is physically associated to the optical tidal tail
and thus that the intergalactic atomic hydrogen there was expelled from
NGC7319. Furthermore, the relatively high oxygen abundances (about solar)
estimated from the optical spectra of the HII regions imply that the gas
feeding the star formation originated from the inner regions of the parent
galaxy. In SQ B, we derive from different tracers a star formation rate of 0.5
\msun/yr. The inferred molecular gas consumption time of 0.5 Gyr lies in the
range of values found for spiral and starburst galaxies. On the other hand, the
ratio of 12CO/13CO>25 is much higher than the values found in disks of spiral
galaxies. A relatively low opacity for the 12CO gas is the most likely reason.