We explore physically self-consistent models of dusty molecular tori in
Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) with the goal of interpreting VLTI observations
and fitting high resolution mid-IR spectral energy distributions (SEDs). The
input dust distribution is analytically calculated by assuming hydrostatic
equilibrium between pressure forces - due to the turbulent motion of the gas
clouds - and gravitational and centrifugal forces as a result of the
contribution of the nuclear stellar distribution and the central black hole.
For a fully three-dimensional treatment of the radiative transfer problem
through the tori we employ the Monte Carlo code MC3D. We find that in
homogeneous dust distributions the observed mid-infrared emission is dominated
by the inner funnel of the torus, even when observing along the equatorial
plane. Therefore, the stratification of the distribution of dust grains - both
in terms of size and composition - cannot be neglected. In the current study we
only include the effect of different sublimation radii which significantly
alters the SED in comparison to models that assume an average dust grain
property with a common sublimation radius, and suppresses the silicate emission
feature at 9.7 micron. In this way we are able to fit the mean SED of both type
I and type II AGN very well. Our fit of special objects for which high angular
resolution observations (less than 0.3 arcseconds) are available indicates that
the hottest dust in NGC 1068 reaches the sublimation temperature while the
maximum dust temperature in the low-luminosity AGN Circinus falls short of 1000
K.