Superconducting technology provides most sensitive field detectors, promising
implementations of qubits and high field magnets for medical imaging and for
most powerful particle accelerators. Thus, with the discovery of new
superconducting materials, such as the iron pnictides, exploring their
potential for applications is one of the foremost tasks. Even if the critical
temperature Tc is high, intrinsic electronic properties might render
applications rather difficult, particularly if extreme electronic anisotropy
prevents effective pinning of vortices and thus severely limits the critical
current density, a problem well known for cuprates. While many questions
concerning microscopic electronic properties of the iron pnictides have been
successfully addressed and estimates point to a very high upper critical field,
their application potential is less clarified. Thus we focus here on the
critical currents, their anisotropy and the onset of electrical dissipation in
high magnetic fields up to 65 T. Our detailed study of the transport properties
of optimally doped SmFeAs(O,F) single crystals reveals a promising combination
of high (>2 x 10^6 A/cm^2) and nearly isotropic critical current densities
along all crystal directions. This favorable intragrain current transport in
SmFeAs(O,F), which shows the highest Tc of 54 K at ambient pressure, is a
crucial requirement for possible applications. Essential in these experiments
are 4-probe measurements on Focused Ion Beam (FIB) cut single crystals with
sub-\mu\m^2 cross-section, with current along and perpendicular to the
crystallographic c-axis and very good signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in pulsed
magnetic fields. The pinning forces have been characterized by scaling the
magnetically measured "peak effect".