We study the morphology of luminous and massive galaxies at 0.3<z<0.7
targeted in the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) using publicly
available Hubble Space Telescope imaging from COSMOS. Our sample (240 objects)
provides a unique opportunity to check the visual morphology of these galaxies
which were targeted based solely on stellar population modelling. We find that
the majority (74+/-6%) possess an early-type morphology (elliptical or S0),
while the remainder have a late-type morphology. This is as expected from the
goals of the BOSS target selection which aimed to predominantly select slowly
evolving galaxies, for use as cosmological probes, while still obtaining a fair
fraction of actively star forming galaxies for galaxy evolution studies. We
show that a colour cut of (g-i)>2.35 selects a sub-sample of BOSS galaxies with
90% early-type morphology - more comparable to the earlier Luminous Red Galaxy
(LRG) samples of SDSS-I/II. The remaining 10% of galaxies above this cut have a
late-type morphology and may be analogous to the "passive spirals" found at
lower redshift. We find that 23+/-4% of the early-type galaxies are unresolved
multiple systems in the SDSS imaging. We estimate that at least 50% of these
are real associations (not projection effects) and may represent a significant
"dry merger" fraction. We study the SDSS pipeline sizes of BOSS galaxies which
we find to be systematically larger (by 40%) than those measured from HST
images, and provide a statistical correction for the difference. These details
of the BOSS galaxies will help users of the data fine-tune their selection
criteria, dependent on their science applications. For example, the main goal
of BOSS is to measure the cosmic distance scale and expansion rate of the
Universe to percent-level precision - a point where systematic effects due to
the details of target selection may become important.