Gravitational microlensing is not only a successful tool for discovering
distant exoplanets, but it also enables characterization of the lens and source
stars involved in the lensing event. In high magnification events, the lens
caustic may cross over the source disk, which allows a determination of the
angular size of the source and additionally a measurement of its limb
darkening. When such extended-source effects appear close to maximum
magnification, the resulting light curve differs from the characteristic
Paczynski point-source curve. The exact shape of the light curve close to the
peak depends on the limb darkening of the source. Dense photometric coverage
permits measurement of the respective limb-darkening coefficients. In the case
of microlensing event OGLE 2008-BLG-290, the K giant source star reached a peak
magnification of about 100. Thirteen different telescopes have covered this
event in eight different photometric bands. Subsequent light-curve analysis
yielded measurements of linear limb-darkening coefficients of the source in six
photometric bands. The best-measured coefficients lead to an estimate of the
source effective temperature of about 4700 +100-200 K. However, the photometric
estimate from colour-magnitude diagrams favours a cooler temperature of 4200
+-100 K. As the limb-darkening measurements, at least in the CTIO/SMARTS2 V and
I bands, are among the most accurate obtained, the above disagreement needs to
be understood. A solution is proposed, which may apply to previous events where
such a discrepancy also appeared.