In distributed networks, it is often useful for the nodes to be aware of
dense subgraphs, e.g., such a dense subgraph could reveal dense subtructures in
otherwise sparse graphs (e.g. the World Wide Web or social networks); these
might reveal community clusters or dense regions for possibly maintaining good
communication infrastructure. In this work, we address the problem of
self-awareness of nodes in a dynamic network with regards to graph density,
i.e., we give distributed algorithms for maintaining dense subgraphs that the
member nodes are aware of. The only knowledge that the nodes need is that of
the dynamic diameter $D$, i.e., the maximum number of rounds it takes for a
message to traverse the dynamic network. For our work, we consider a model
where the number of nodes are fixed, but a powerful adversary can add or remove
a limited number of edges from the network at each time step. The communication
is by broadcast only and follows the CONGEST model. Our algorithms are
continuously executed on the network, and at any time (after some
initialization) each node will be aware if it is part (or not) of a particular
dense subgraph. We give algorithms that ($2 + \epsilon$)-approximate the
densest subgraph and ($3 + \epsilon$)-approximate the at-least-$k$-densest
subgraph (for a given parameter $k$). Our algorithms work for a wide range of
parameter values and run in $O(D\log_{1+\epsilon} n)$ time. Further, a special
case of our results also gives the first fully decentralized approximation
algorithms for densest and at-least-$k$-densest subgraph problems for static
distributed graphs.