Since the classical work of Berlekamp, McEliece and van Tilborg, it is well
known that the problem of exact maximum-likelihood (ML) decoding of general
linear codes is NP-hard. In this paper, we show that exact ML decoding of a
classs of asymptotically good error correcting codes--expander codes, a special
case of low density parity check (LDPC) codes--over binary symmetric channels
(BSCs) is possible with an expected polynomial complexity. More precisely, for
any bit-flipping probability, $p$, in a nontrivial range, there exists a rate
region of non-zero support and a family of asymptotically good codes, whose
error probability decays exponentially in coding length $n$, for which ML
decoding is feasible in expected polynomial time. Furthermore, as $p$
approaches zero, this rate region approaches the channel capacity region. The
result is based on the existence of polynomial-time suboptimal decoding
algorithms that provide an ML certificate and the ability to compute the
probability that the suboptimal decoder yields the ML solution. One such ML
certificate decoder is the LP decoder of Feldman; we also propose a more
efficient $O(n^2)$ algorithm based on the work of Sipser and Spielman and the
Ford-Fulkerson algorithm. The results can be extended to AWGN channels and
suggest that it may be feasible to eliminate the error floor phenomenon
associated with message-passage decoding of LDPC codes in the high SNR regime.
Finally, we observe that the argument of Berlekamp, McEliece and van Tilborg
can be used to show that ML decoding of the considered class of codes
constructed from LDPC codes with regular left degree, of which the considered
expander codes are a special case, remains NP-hard; thus giving an interesting
contrast between the worst-case and expected complexities.