The spectroscopic properties of a selected optical photospheric spectra of
core collapse supernovae (CCSNe) are investigated.Special attention is devoted
to traces of hydrogen at early phases.
  The generated spectra are found to match the observed ones reasonably well,
including a list of only 23 candidate ions. Guided by SN Ib 1990I, the observed
trough near 6300\AA is attributed to H$\alpha$ in almost all Type Ib events,
although in some objects it becomes too weak to be discernible, especially at
later phases. Alternative line identifications are discussed. Differences in
the way hydrogen manifests its presence within CCSNe are highlighted. In Type
Ib SNe, the H$\alpha$ contrast velocity (i.e. line velocity minus the
photospheric velocity) seems to increase with time at early epochs, reaching
values as high as 8000 km s$^{-1}$ around 15-20 days after maximum and then
remains almost constant. The derived photospheric velocities, indicate a lower
velocity for Type II SNe 1987A and 1999em as compared to SN Ic 1994I and SN IIb
1993J, while Type Ib events display a somewhat larger variation. The scatter,
around day 20, is measured to be $\sim$5000 km s$^{-1}$. Following two simple
approaches, rough estimates of ejecta and hydrogen masses are given. A mass of
hydrogen of approximately 0.02 $M_\odot$ is obtained for SN 1990I, while SNe
1983N and 2000H ejected $\sim$0.008 $M_\odot$ and $\sim$0.08 $M_\odot$ of
hydrogen, respectively. SN 1993J has a higher hydrogen mass, $\sim 0.7$
$M_\odot$ with a large uncertainty. A low mass and thin hydrogen layer with
very high ejection velocities above the helium shell, is thus the most likely
scenario for Type Ib SNe. Some interesting and curious issues relating to
oxygen lines suggest future investigations.