Interesting data on $dN_{\rm ch}/d\eta$ in Au-Au collisions ($\eta=-\ln \tan
(\theta/2)$) with the centrality cuts have been reported by BRAHMS
Collaboration. Using the total multiplicity $N_{\rm ch} = \int (dN_{\rm
ch}/d\eta)d\eta$, we find that there are scaling phenomena among $(N_{\rm
ch})^{-1}dN_{\rm ch}/d\eta = dn/d\eta$ with different centrality cuts at
$\sqrt{s_{NN}} =$ 130 GeV and 200 GeV, respectively. To explain these scaling
behaviors of $dn/d\eta$, we consider the stochastic approach named the
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with two sources. The following Fokker-Planck
equation is adopted for the present analyses, $$ \frac{\partial
P(x,t)}{\partial t} = \gamma [\frac{\partial}{\partial x}x + \frac
12\frac{\sigma^2}{\gamma}\frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2}] P(x, t) $$ where $x$
means the rapidity (y) or pseudo-rapidity ($\eta$). $t$, $\gamma$ and
$\sigma^2$ are the evolution parameter, the frictional coefficient and the
variance, respectively. Introducing a variable of $z_r = \eta/\eta_{\rm rms}$
($\eta_{\rm rms}=\sqrt{< \eta^2 >}$) we explain the $dn/d z_r$ distributions in
the present approach. Moreover, to explain the rapidity (y) distributions from
$\eta$ distributions at 200 GeV, we have derived the formula as $$
\frac{dn}{dy}=J^{-1}\frac{dn}{d \eta}, $$ where $J^{-1}=\sqrt{M(1+\sinh^2
y)}/\sqrt{1+M\sinh^2 y}$ with $M = 1 + (m/p_{\rm t})^2$. Their data of pion and
all hadrons are fairly well explained by the O-U process. To compare our
approach with another one, a phenomenological formula by Eskola et al. is also
used in calculations of $dn/d\eta$.