The study by White (1984) on the growth of angular momentum in dark haloes is
extended towards a more detailed investigation of the spin parameter
$\lambda\equiv L\sqrt{E}/{G M^{2.5}}$. Starting from the Zel'dovich
approximation to structure formation, a dark halo is approximated by a
homogeneous ellipsoid with the inertial tensor of the (highly irregular)
Lagrangian region $\Upsilon$ from which the dark halo forms. Within this
approximation, an expression for the spin parameter can be derived, which
depends on the geometry of $\Upsilon$, the cosmological density parameter
$\Omega_0$, the overdensity of the dark halo, and the tidal torque exerted on
it. For Gaussian random fields, this expression can be evaluated statistically.
As a result, we derive a probability distribution of the spin parameter which
gives $\lambda\simeq0.07^{+0.04}_{-0.05}$, consistent with numerical
investigations. This probability distribution steeply rises with increasing
spin parameter, reaching its maximum at $\lambda\simeq0.025$. The 10 (50,90)
percentile values are $\lambda=0.02$ (0.05,0.11, respectively). There is a weak
anticorrelation of the spin parameter with the peak height $\nu$ of the density
fluctuation field $\lambda\propto \nu^{-0.29}$. The dependence on $\Omega_0$
and the variance $\sigma$ of the density-contrast field is very weak; there is
only a marginal tendency for the spin parameter to be slightly larger for
late-forming objects in an open universe. Due to the weak dependence on
$\sigma$, our results should be quite generally applicable and independent on