We demonstrate a new approach for forming hybrid metal/carbonaceous
nanostructures in a controlled direct laser planting process. Au-Ag
nanoclusters in amorphous or crystalline carbonaceous matrices are formed with
different morphology: nanoparticles, nanoflakes, and nanoflowers. In contrast
to other generation techniques our approach is simple, involving only a single
laser-induced process transforming supramolecular complexes dissolved in
solvent such as acetone, acetophenone, or dichloroethane into hybrid
nanostructures in the laser-affected area of the substrate. The morphology of
the hybrid nanostructures can be steered by controlling the deposition
parameters, the composition of the liquid phase and the type of substrate,
amorphous or crystalline. The carbonaceous phase of the hybrid nanostructures
consists of hydrogenated amorphous carbon in the case of nanoparticles and of
crystalline orthorhombic graphite of nanoscale thickness in the case of flakes
and flowers. To the best of our knowledge this is the first demonstration of
the fabrication of orthorhombic graphite with metal nano inclusions. The
remarkable quality and regularity of the micron-sized nanoscale thickness
single crystal flakes allows for cutting high resolution nano scale structures,
which in combination with the metallic nano inclusions offer much design
freedom for creating novel devices for nano photonic applications. The
encouraging properties of the nanomaterials with different composition, size
and shape stimulate the development of efficient synthesis strategies aimed at
fine-tuning the functionality.