Massive stars can be efficiently ejected from their birth clusters through
encounters with other massive stars. We study how the dynamical ejection
fraction of O star systems varies with the masses of very young star clusters,
Mecl, by means of direct N -body calculations. We include diverse initial
conditions by varying the half-mass radius, initial mass-segregation, initial
binary fraction and orbital parameters of the massive binaries. The results
show robustly that the ejection fraction of O star systems exhibits a maximum
at a cluster mass of $10^{3.5}$ Msun for all models, even though the number of
the ejected systems increases with cluster mass. We show that lower mass
clusters (Mecl ~ 400 Msun ) are the dominant sources for populating the
Galactic field with O stars by dynamical ejections, considering the mass
function of embedded clusters. About 15 per cent (up to 38 per cent, depending
on the cluster models) of O stars of which a significant fraction are binaries,
and which would have formed in a 10 Myr epoch of star formation in a
distribution of embedded clusters, will be dynamically ejected to the field.
Individual clusters may eject 100 per cent of their original O star content. A
large fraction of such O stars have velocities up to only 10 km/s. Synthesising
a young star cluster mass function it follows, given the stellar-dynamical
results presented here, that the observed fractions of field and runaway O
stars, and the binary fractions among them can be well understood theoretically
if all O stars form in embedded clusters.