Using a coarse-grained bead-spring model for semi-flexible macromolecules
forming a polymer brush, structure and dynamics of the polymers is
investigated, varying chain stiffness and grafting density. The anchoring
condition for the grafted chains is chosen such that their first bonds are
oriented along the normal to the substrate plane.
  Compression of such a semi-flexible brush by a planar piston is observed to
be a two-stage process: for small compressions the chains contract by
"buckling" deformation whereas for larger compression the chains exhibit a
collective (almost uniform) bending deformation. Thus, the stiff polymer brush
undergoes a 2-nd order phase transition of collective bond reorientation. The
pressure, required to keep the stiff brush at a given degree of compression, is
thereby significantly smaller than for an otherwise identical brush made of
entirely flexible polymer chains! While both the brush height and the chain
linear dimension in the z-direction perpendicular to the substrate increase
monotonically with increasing chain stiffness, lateral (xy) chain linear
dimensions exhibit a maximum at intermediate chain stiffness. Increasing the
grafting density leads to a strong decrease of these lateral dimensions,
compatible with an exponential decay. Also the recovery kinetics after removal
of the compressing piston is studied, and found to follow a power-law /
exponential decay with time.
  A simple mean-field theoretical consideration, accounting for the
buckling/bending behavior of semi-flexible polymer brushes under compression,
is suggested.