Using recently calculated models for massive stellar evolution and supernovae
coupled to a model for Galactic chemical evolution, neutron star and black hole
birth functions (number of neutron stars and black holes as a function of their
mass) are determined for the Milky Way Galaxy. For those stars that explode as
Type II supernovae, the models give birth functions that are bimodal with peaks
at 1.27 and 1.76 M\sun \ and average masses within those peaks of 1.28 and 1.73
M\sun. For those stars that explode as Type Ib there is a narrower spread of
remnant masses, the average being 1.32 M\sun, and less evidence for bimodality.
These values will be increased, especially in the more massive Type II
supernovae, if significant accretion continues during the initial launching of
the shock, and the number of heavier neutron stars could be depleted by black
hole formation. The principal reason for the dichotomy in remnant masses for
Type II is the difference in the presupernova structure of stars above and
below 19 M\sun, the mass separating stars that burn carbon convectively from
those that produce less carbon and burn radiatively. The Type Ib's and the
lower mass group of the Type II's compare favorably with measured neutron star
masses, and in particular to the Thorsett et al. (1993) determination of the
average neutron star mass in 17 systems; 1.35 $\pm$ 0.27 M\sun. Variations in
the exponent of a Salpeter initial mass function are shown not to affect the
locations of the two peaks in the distribution function, but do affect their
relative amplitudes. Sources of uncertainty, in particular placement of the
mass cut and sensitivity to the explosion energy, are discussed, and estimates
of the total number of neutron stars and black holes in the Galaxy are given.
Accretion induced collapse should give a unique gravitational mass of 1.27