We numerically investigate the kinematic properties of globular cluster
systems (GCSs) in E/S0 galaxies formed from dissipationless merging of spiral
galaxies. The metal-poor globular clusters (MPCs) and metal-rich clusters
(MRCs) in the merger progenitors are initially assumed to have spatial
distributions consistent with the Milky Way GC system. Our principal results,
which can be tested against observations, are as follows. Both MPCs and MRCs in
elliptical galaxies formed from major mergers can exhibit significant rotation
at large radii ($\sim$20 kpc) due to the conversion of initial orbital angular
momentum into intrinsic angular momentum of the remnant. MPCs show higher
central velocity dispersions than MRCs for most major merger models. $V_{\rm
m}/{\sigma}_{0}$ (where $V_{\rm m}$ and ${\sigma}_{0}$, are the GCS maximum
rotational velocity and central velocity dispersion of respectively) ranges
from 0.2--1.0 and 0.1--0.9 for the MPCs and MRCs respectively, within $6R_{\rm
e}$ for the remnant elliptical. For most merger remnant ellipticals, $V_{\rm
m}/{\sigma}_{0}$ of GCSs within $6R_{\rm e}$ is greater than that of the field
stars within $2R_{\rm e}$. The radial profiles of rotational velocities and
velocity dispersions of the GCSs depend upon the orbital configuration of the
merger progenitors, their mass-ratios, and the viewing angle. For example, more
flattened early-type galaxies, formed through mergers with small mass ratios
($\sim$ 0.1), show little rotation in the outer MRCs. Two-dimensional (2D)
velocity dispersion distributions of the GCSs of merger remnant ellipticals are
generally flattened for both MPCs and MRCs, reflecting the fact that the GCSs
have anisotropic velocity dispersions (abridged).