The unsigned mean magnetic field characterizes the magnetic energy settled in
the region near the solar surface. It is one of the determinant ingredients
that govern the turbulence in the photosphere, and the magnetic heating of
upper layers. The acoustic eigenmodes are directly sensitive to this mean
magnetic energy, via the magnetic pressure, and thanks to their trajectories
sweeping entirely this region. We use the local-wave formalism to calculate the
p-mode frequencies of the Saclay seismic solar model. Then, by comparing them
to the LOWL observed frequencies, the l-independent differences (up to 40
microHz) can be attributed to the existence of a magnetic pressure that
modifies the pressure, the density and the sound speed, taking also into
account the additional Alfven speed. A profile of unsigned mean magnetic field
is deduced, increasing from zero at the surface to 2.5e4 G, 5600 km deeper.
Next, by applying the same method, the l-independent variations in frequency
due the solar cycle (up to 0.4 microHz) is used to deduce the change of the
magnetic profile. This change presents two distinctive parts: a plateau of only
2-3 G from the surface down to 2100 km, and a very narrow peak of 55 G, 220 km
thick, right at the surface. Due to the non-linear effect of the magnetic
field, comparing only the frequencies between minimum and maximum activity is
not sufficient to deduce the magnetic variation. The additional knowledge of
the magnetic field at minimum activity is necessary. If the latter is ignored,
an extra variation of up to 130 G would be found. Finally, our results are
compared to magnetic field estimates by other helioseismic and spectroscopic
methods.