The dielectric permittivity e at frequencies from [10^(-1) -10^(-5)] Hz to
10^5 Hz is studied in perovskite (1-x)Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3 - xPbTiO3 relaxor
ferroelectric ceramics of different compositions x = 0.35, 0.25 and 0, which
exhibit, below the temperature of the diffuse epsilon'(T) maximum Tm, a
tetragonal ferroelectric, a rhombohedral ferroelectric and a nonergodic relaxor
phase, respectively. The universal relaxor dispersion previously observed at
temperatures near and above Tm in the ceramics of x=0.25, is also found to
exist in other compositions. This dispersion is described by the fractional
power dependence of the real and imaginary parts of susceptibility on
frequency. The real part of the universal relaxor susceptibility chi'U is only
a comparatively small fraction of the total permittivity epsilon', but chi"U is
the dominant contribution to the losses in a wide frequency-temperature range
above Tm. In the high-temperature phase a quadratic divergent temperature
behavior is observed for all the three compositions studied. The universal
relaxor susceptibility is attributed to the polarization of polar nanoregions,
which are inherent in the relaxor ferroelectrics. A microscopic model of this
polarization is proposed, according to which the dipole moments of some
('free') unit cells inside polar nanoregion can freely choose several different
directions, while the direction of the total moment of the nanoregion remains
the same. The ensemble of interacting polar nanoregions is described in terms
of a standard spherical model, which predicts the quadratic divergence of
susceptibility above the critical temperature, in agreement with the
experimental results.