It is well-known that the noise associated with the collection of an
astronomical image by a CCD camera is, in large part, Poissonian. One would
expect, therefore, that computational approaches that incorporate this a priori
information will be more effective than those that do not. The Richardson-Lucy
(RL) algorithm, for example, can be viewed as a maximum-likelihood (ML) method
for image deblurring when the data noise is assumed to be Poissonian.
Least-squares (LS) approaches, on the other hand, arises from the assumption
that the noise is Gaussian with fixed variance across pixels, which is rarely
accurate. Given this, it is surprising that in many cases results obtained
using LS techniques are relatively insensitive to whether the noise is
Poissonian or Gaussian. Furthermore, in the presence of Poisson noise, results
obtained using LS techniques are often comparable with those obtained by the RL
algorithm. We seek an explanation of these phenomena via an examination of the
regularization properties of particular LS algorithms. In addition, a careful
analysis of the RL algorithm yields an explanation as to why it is more
effective than LS approaches for star-like objects, and why it provides similar
reconstructions for extended objects. We finish with a convergence analysis of
the RL algorithm. Numerical results are presented throughout the paper. It is
important to stress that the subject treated in this paper is not academic. In
fact, in comparison with many ML algorithms, the LS algorithms are much easier
to use and to implement, often provide faster convergence rates, and are much
more flexible regarding the incorporation of constraints on the solution.
Consequently, if little to no improvement is gained in the use of an ML
approach over an LS algorithm, the latter will often be the preferred approach.