We present well sampled optical (UBVRI) and infrared (JHK) light curves of
the nearby (~18.0 Mpc) Type Ia supernova SN 2001el, from 11 days before to 142
days after the time of B-band maximum. The data represent one of the best sets
of optical and infrared photometry ever obtained for a Type Ia supernova. Based
on synthetic photometry using optical spectra of SN 2001el and optical and
infrared spectra of SN 1999ee, we were able to devise filter corrections for
the BVJHK photometry of SN 2001el which to some extent resolve systematic
differences between SN 2001el datasets obtained with different
telescope/filter/instrument combinations. We also calculated V minus infrared
color curves on the basis of a delayed detonation model and showed that the
theoretical color curves match the unreddened loci for Type Ia SNe with
mid-range decline rates to within 0.2 mag. Given the completeness of the light
curves and the elimination of filter-oriented systematic errors to some degree,
the data presented here will be useful for the construction of photometric
templates, especially in the infrared. On the whole the photometric behavior of
SN 2001el was quite normal. The second H-band maximum being brighter than the
first H-band maximum is in accord with the prediction of Krisciunas et al.
(2000) for Type Ia SNe with mid-range decline rates. The photometry exhibits
non-zero host extinction, with total A_V = 0.57 +/- 0.05 mag along the line of
sight. NGC 1448, the host of SN 2001el, would be an excellent target for a
distance determination using Cepheids.