We present a comparative confrontation of both the Bose-Einstein Condensate
(BEC) and the Navarro-Frenk-White (NFW) dark halo models with galactic rotation
curves and velocity dispersion data. We conclude that the BEC model fits better
the dwarf galaxy dark matter distribution, but suffers from sharp cut-off in
larger galaxies, where the NFW model performs better. In more detail, we employ
6 High Surface Brightness (HSB), 6 Low Surface Brightness (LSB) and 7 dwarf
galaxies with rotation curves falling into two classes, based on their shapes.
In the first class the rotational velocities increase with radius over the
whole observed range, the BEC and NFW models giving comparable fits for both
HSB and LSB galaxies, while significantly improving over the NFW fit for dwarf
galaxies. This improvement is due to the central density cusp avoidance
property of the BEC model. The rotational velocity of HSB and LSB galaxies
falling into the second class exhibit long flat plateaus, resulting in a better
fit of the NFW model for HSB galaxies, and comparable fits for LSB galaxies.
The weaker performance of the BEC model for the HSB type II galaxies is due to
the BEC density profiles dropping rapidly to zero outside a nearly constant
density core. Finally we confront both models with the projected velocity
dispersion profiles of 6 Virgo cluster galaxies, which after a steep rising,
remain flat over the sampled region. The two models gave comparable combined
$\tilde{\chi}_{\min}^{2}$ values for these galaxies but both model fits
remained outside the 3$\sigma$ confidence level, pointing out the need for a
better modelling of the velocity dispersion of galaxies that both the BEC and
NFW models could provide.