We investigate the evolution of rigidly and differentially rotating
protoneutron stars (PNSs) during the first twenty seconds of their life. We
solve the equations describing stationary axisymmetric configurations in
general relativity coupled to a finite temperature, relativistic equation of
state, to obtain a sequence of quasi-equilibrium configurations describing the
evolution of newly born neutron stars. Our estimates show that the scale of
variation of the angular velocity in a PNSs is of the order of 7-10 km. We
obtain the maximum rotation frequency that can be reached as the protoneutron
stars deleptonizes and cools down, as well as other relevant parameters such as
total angular momentum or |T/W|. Our study shows that imposing physical
constraints (conservation of baryonic mass and angular momentum) and choosing
reasonable thermodynamical profiles as the star evolves gives results
consistent with the energetics of more complex simulations of non-rotating
PNSs. It appears to be unlikely that PNSs formed in nearly axisymmetric core
collapse reach the critical angular velocity to undergo the bar mode
instability. They could, however, undergo secular or low |T/W| rotational
instabilities a few seconds after birth, resulting in a strong emission of
gravitational waves retarded with respect to the neutrino luminosity peak. We
also found that the geometry of strongly differentially rotating protoneutron
stars can become toroidal-like for large values of the angular velocity, before
reaching the mass shedding limit.