We combine the Cosmic Lens All-Sky Survey (CLASS) with new Sloan Digital Sky
Survey (SDSS) data on the local velocity dispersion distribution function of
E/S0 galaxies, $\phi(\sigma)$, to derive lens statistics constraints on
$\Omega_\Lambda$ and $\Omega_m$. Previous studies of this kind relied on a
combination of the E/S0 galaxy luminosity function and the Faber-Jackson
relation to characterize the lens galaxy population. However, ignoring
dispersion in the Faber-Jackson relation leads to a biased estimate of
$\phi(\sigma)$ and therefore biased and overconfident constraints on the
cosmological parameters. The measured velocity dispersion function from a large
sample of E/S0 galaxies provides a more reliable method for probing cosmology
with strong lens statistics. Our new constraints are in good agreement with
recent results from the redshift-magnitude relation of Type Ia supernovae.
Adopting the traditional assumption that the E/S0 velocity function is constant
in comoving units, we find a maximum likelihood estimate of $\Omega_\Lambda =
0.74$--0.78 for a spatially flat unvierse (where the range reflects uncertainty
in the number of E/S0 lenses in the CLASS sample), and a 95% confidence upper
bound of $\Omega_\Lambda<0.86$. If $\phi(\sigma)$ instead evolves in accord
with extended Press-Schechter theory, then the maximum likelihood estimate for
$\Omega_\Lambda$ becomes 0.72--0.78, with the 95% confidence upper bound
$\Omega_\Lambda<0.89$. Even without assuming flatness, lensing provides
independent confirmation of the evidence from Type Ia supernovae for a nonzero
dark energy component in the universe.