We report the discovery of a highly coherent oscillation in a type-I X-ray
burst observed from 4U 1916-053 by the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). The
oscillation was most strongly detected approx. 1 s after the burst onset at a
frequency of 269.3 Hz, and it increased in frequency over the following 4
seconds of the burst decay to a maximum of around 272 Hz. The total measured
drift of 3.58 +/- 0.41 Hz (1 sigma) represents the largest fractional change in
frequency (1.32 +/- 0.15 %) yet observed in any burst oscillation. If the
asymptotic frequency of the oscillation is interpreted in terms of a decoupled
surface burning layer, the implied neutron star spin period is around 3.7 ms.
However, the expansion of the burning layer required to explain frequency drift
during the burst is around 80 m, substantially larger than expected
theoretically (assuming rigid rotation). The oscillation was not present in the
persistent emission before the burst, nor in the initial rise. When detected
its amplitude was 6-12% (RMS) with a roughly sinusoidal profile. The burst
containing the oscillation showed no evidence for photospheric radius
expansion, while at least 5 of the other 9 bursts observed from the source by
RXTE during 1996 and 1998 did. No comparable oscillations were detected in the
other bursts. A pair of kilohertz quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) has been
previously reported from this source with a mean separation of 348 +/- 12 Hz.
4U 1916-053 is the first example of a source where the burst oscillation
frequency is significantly smaller than the frequency separation of the kHz
QPOs.