We propose a theory for the density fluctuations of aerodynamic grains
embedded in a turbulent, gravitating gas disk. The theory combines calculations
for the average behavior of grains encountering a single turbulent eddy, with a
hierarchical description of the eddy velocity statistics. We show that this
makes analytic predictions for a wide range of quantities, including: the
distribution of volume-average grain densities, the power spectrum and
correlation functions of grain density fluctuations, and the maximum volume
density of grains reached. For each, we predict how these scale as a function
of grain stopping/friction time (t_stop), spatial scale, grain-to-gas mass
ratio, strength of the turbulence (alpha), and detailed disk properties
(orbital frequency, sound speed). We test these against numerical simulations
and find good agreement over a huge parameter space. Results from 'turbulent
concentration' simulations and laboratory experiments are also predicted as a
special case. We predict that vortices on a wide range of scales act to
disperse and concentrate grains hierarchically (even if the gas is
incompressible). For small grains this is most efficient in eddies with
turnover time comparable to the stopping time. But for large grains, shear and
gravity are important and lead to a broad range of eddy scales driving
fluctuations, with most power on the largest scales. The grain density
distribution is driven to a log-Poisson shape, with fluctuations for large
grains up to >1000 times the mean density. We predict much smaller grains will
also experience large fluctuations, but on small scales (not resolved in most
simulations). We provide simple analytic expressions for the important
predictions, and discuss implications for planetesimal formation, grain growth,
and the structure of turbulence.