Among the galaxies which were included in the Atlas and Catalogue of
Interacting galaxies by Vorontsov-Velyaminov (hereafter VV) as multiple systems
("nests", "chains" and similarly looking systems), there are many objects,
where the interaction is not evident. Some of them are single objects,
including low-mass galaxies with active star formation (SF). In this work we
present the description of observations and results of the long-slit
spectrophotometry with the Russian 6-m telescope of three VV-galaxies looking
like double or multiple systems, and HI-observations of one of them in order to
elucidate their nature, determine their metallicity, kinematic properties and
the evolution status. Galaxies VV432 and VV747 are found to be dwarf systems
with low oxygen abundance (O/H = 1/22 and 1/12 of the solar value,
respectively). Their velocity curves indicate quite slow rotation with
respective maximum velocities of about 60 and 80 km/s, in agreement with their
low luminosities. The distance to VV432 is rather uncertain. If it is a member
of Virgo Cluster, this is the most metal-deficient known galaxy of this
aggregate. For galaxy VV543 the measured emission-line redshift 0.047 appeared
ten times larger than it was given in the original paper and is cited in
databases. This "system" evidently represents an optical pair of two galaxies
with large velocity difference. The fainter western component is an HII-galaxy,
while the brighter one is an absorption-line early-type galaxy with the radial
velocity being 1600 km/s lower.