The acceleration of ultrahigh energy nuclei in fast spinning newborn pulsars
can explain the observed spectrum of ultrahigh energy cosmic rays and the trend
towards heavier nuclei for energies above $10^{19}\,$eV as reported by the
Auger Observatory. Pulsar acceleration implies a hard injection spectrum ($\sim
E^{-1}$) due to pulsar spin down and a maximum energy $E_{\rm max} \sim Z \,
10^{19}$ eV due to the limit on the spin rate of neutron stars. We have
previously shown that the escape through the young supernova remnant softens
the spectrum, decreases slightly the maximum energy, and generates secondary
nuclei. Here we show that the distribution of pulsar birth periods and the
effect of propagation in the interstellar and intergalactic media modifies the
combined spectrum of all pulsars. By assuming a normal distribution of pulsar
birth periods centered at 300 ms, we show that the contribution of
extragalactic pulsar births to the ultrahigh energy cosmic ray spectrum
naturally gives rise to a contribution to very high energy cosmic rays (VHECRs,
between $10^{16}$ and $10^{18}$ eV) by Galactic pulsar births. The required
injected composition to fit the observed spectrum depends on the absolute
energy scale, which is uncertain, differing between Auger Observatory and
Telescope Array. The contribution of Galactic pulsar births can also bridge the
gap between predictions for cosmic ray acceleration in supernova remnants and
the observed spectrum just below the ankle, depending on the composition of the
cosmic rays that escape the supernova remnant and the diffusion behavior of
VHECRs in the Galaxy.