Six asteroids including two NEAs, one of which is PHA, accessible for
observation in September 2012 were investigated using a low-resolution
spectrophotometry in the range 0.35-0.90 um with the aim to study features of
their reflectance spectra. For the first time we discovered likely spectral
signs (as a maximum at 0.4-0.6 um in reflectance spectra) of simultaneous
sublimation activity and presence of a temporal coma on three primitive-type
main-belt asteroids, Adeona, Interamnia, and Nina, being at perihelion
distances or approaching to it. We suggest that such a cometary-like activity
may be a common phenomenon at the highest subsolar surface temperatures for C
and close type asteroids including considerable amounts of H2O and CO2 ices
beneath the surface. However, excavation of fresh ice at recent impact event(s)
could be an alternative explanation of the phenomenon. Similar absorption bands
centered at 0.38, 0.44 and 0.67-0.71 um registered in the reflectance spectra
of Adeona, Interamnia, and Nina clearly point to predominantly silicate surface
matter. To specify its content, we performed laboratory investigations of
ground samples of known carbonaceous chondrites (Orguel, Mighei, Murchison, and
Boriskino) and seven samples of low-iron Mg serpentines as possible analogs of
the asteroids. In particular, we found that the equivalent width of the band
centered at 0.44 um in reflectance spectra of the low-Fe serpentine samples has
a high correlation with content of Fe3+ (octahedral and tetrahedral). It means
that the absorption feature can be used as an indicator of ferric iron in
oxidized and hydrated low-Fe silicate compounds on asteroids (abridged).