Remnants of neutron-star mergers are essentially massive, hot, differentially
rotating neutron stars, which are initially strongly oscillating. They
represent a unique probe for high-density matter because the oscillations are
detectable via gravitational-wave measurements and are strongly dependent on
the equation of state. The impact of the equation of state is apparent in the
frequency of the dominant oscillation mode of the remnant. For a fixed total
binary mass a tight relation between the dominant postmerger frequency and the
radii of nonrotating neutron stars exists. Inferring observationally the
dominant postmerger frequency thus determines neutron star radii with high
accuracy of the order of a few hundred meters. By considering symmetric and
asymmetric binaries of the same chirp mass, we show that the knowledge of the
binary mass ratio is not critical for this kind of radius measurements. We
summarize different possibilities to deduce the maximum mass of nonrotating
neutron stars. We clarify the nature of the three most prominent features of
the postmerger gravitational-wave spectrum and argue that the merger remnant
can be considered to be a single, isolated, self-gravitating object that can be
described by concepts of asteroseismology. The understanding of the different
mechanisms shaping the gravitational-wave signal yields a physically motivated
analytic model of the gravitational-wave emission, which may form the basis for
template-based gravitational-wave data analysis. We explore the observational
consequences of a scenario of two families of compact stars including hadronic
and quark stars. We find that this scenario leaves a distinctive imprint on the
postmerger gravitational-wave signal. In particular, a strong discontinuity in
the dominant postmerger frequency as function of the total mass will be a
strong indication for two families of compact stars. (abridged)