The last solar minimum has been unusually quiet compared to the previous
minima (since space-based radiometric measurements are available). The Sun's
magnetic flux was substantially lower during this minimum. Some studies also
show that the total solar irradiance during the minimum after cycle 23 may have
dropped below the values known from the two minima prior to that. For
chromospheric and coronal radiation, the situation is less clear-cut. The Sun's
10.7\,cm flux shows a decrease of $\sim4\%$ during the solar minimum in 2008
compared to the previous minimum, but \ion{Ca}{II} K does not. Here we consider
additional wavelengths in the extreme ultraviolet (EUV), specifically
transitions of \ion{He}{I} at 584.3\,\AA\ and \ion{O}{V} at 629.7\,\AA , of
which the CDS spectrometer aboard SOHO has been taking regular scans along the
solar central meridian since 1996. We analysed this unique dataset to verify if
and how the radiance distribution undergoes measurable variations between cycle
minima. To achieve this aim we determined the radiance distribution of quiet
areas around the Sun centre. Concentrating on the last two solar minima, we
found out that there is very little variation in the radiance distribution of
the chromospheric spectral line \ion{He}{I} between these minima. The same
analysis shows a modest, although significant, 4\% variation in the radiance
distribution of the transition region spectral line \ion{O}{V}. These results
are comparable to those obtained by earlier studies employing other spectral
features, and they confirm that chromospheric indices display a small
variation, whereas in the TR a more significant reduction of the brighter
features is visible.