We present a theory of large-scale dynamo action in a turbulent flow that has
stochastic, zero-mean fluctuations of the $\alpha$ parameter. We extend the
Kraichnan-Moffatt model to explore effects of finite memory of $\alpha$
fluctuations, in a spirit similar to that of Sridhar & Singh (2014), hereafter
SS14. Using the first-order smoothing approximation, we derive a linear
integro-differential equation governing the dynamics of the large-scale
magnetic field, which is non-perturbative in the $\alpha$-correlation time
$\tau_{\alpha}$. We recover earlier results in the exactly solvable white-noise
(WN) limit where the Moffatt drift does not contribute to the dynamo
growth/decay. To study finite memory effects, we reduce the
integro-differential equation to a partial differential equation by assuming
that the $\tau_{\alpha}$ be small but nonzero and the large-scale magnetic
field is slowly varying. We derive the dispersion relation and provide explicit
expression for the growth rate as a function of four independent parameters.
When $\tau_{\alpha}\neq 0$, we find that: (i) in the absence of the Moffatt
drift, but with finite Kraichnan diffusivity, only strong $\alpha$-fluctuations
can enable a mean-field dynamo (this is qualitatively similar to the WN case);
(ii) in the general case when also the Moffatt drift is nonzero, both, weak or
strong $\alpha$ fluctuations, can lead to a large-scale dynamo; and (iii) there
always exists a wavenumber ($k$) cutoff at some large $k$ beyond which the
growth rate turns negative, irrespective of weak or strong $\alpha$
fluctuations. Thus we show that a finite Moffatt drift can always facilitate
large-scale dynamo action if sufficiently strong, even in case of weak $\alpha$
fluctuations, and the maximum growth occurs at intermediate wavenumbers ($\sim$
few times $k_{\alpha}$).