In this paper, we investigated the statistical differences between active and
passive scalars in isotropic compressible turbulence. In the inertial range,
the kinetic energy and scalar have the Kolmogorov spectra, and the Kolmogorov
and Obukhov-Corrsin constants are 2.06 and 0.87, respectively. The local
scaling exponents computed from the second-order structure functions exist
plateaus for velocity and active scalar, while that for passive scalar takes
first a minimum of 0.61 then a maximum of 0.73. The mixed third-order structure
function of velocity and passive scalar satisfies the 4/3-law. For the scaling
exponent, the one of velocity and passive scalar mixing is between those of
velocity and passive scalar, while the one of velocity and active scalar mixing
is below those of velocity and active scalar. At large amplitudes, the p.d.f.
of active scalar fluctuations is super-Gaussian, whereas that of passive scalar
fluctuations is sub-Gaussian. Moreover, the p.d.f.s of the two scalar
increments are concave and convex shapes, respectively, which exhibit strong
intermittency at small scales, and approach Gaussian as scale increases. The
active scalar has "ramp-cliff" structures, while the passive scalar seems to be
dominated by rarefaction and compression. By employing a "coarse-graining"
approach, we study scalar cascades. Unlike passive scalar, the cascade of
active scalar is mainly determined by the viscous dissipation at small scales
and the pressure-dilatation at large scales, where the latter is substantial in
the vicinity of small-scale shocklets but is negligible after space averages,
because of the cancelations between rarefaction and compression regions.
Finally, in the inertial range, the p.d.f.s for the subgrid-scale fluxes of
scalars can collapse to the same distribution, revealing the scale-invariant
feature for the statistics of active and passive scalars.