In this work we report a study of the magnetic behavior of ferrimagnetic
oxide CoFe2O4 and ferrimagnetic oxide/ferromagnetic metal CoFe2O4/CoFe2
nanocomposites. The latter compound is a good system to study hard
ferrimagnet/soft ferromagnet exchange coupling. Two steps were used to
synthesize the bimagnetic CoFe2O4/CoFe2 nanocomposites: (i) first preparation
of CoFe2O4 nanoparticles using the a simple hydrothermal method and (ii) second
reduction reaction of cobalt ferrite nanoparticles using activated charcoal in
inert atmosphere and high temperature. The phase structures, particle sizes,
morphology, and magnetic properties of CoFe2O4 nanoparticles have been
investigated by X-Ray diffraction (XRD), Mossbauer spectroscopy (MS),
transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM)
with applied field up to 3.0 kOe at room temperature and 50K. The mean diameter
of CoFe2O4 particles is about 16 nm. Mossbauer spectra reveal two sites for
Fe3+. One site is related to Fe in an octahedral coordination and the other one
to the Fe3+ in a tetrahedral coordination, as expected for a spinel crystal
structure of CoFe2O4. TEM measurements of nanocomposite show the formation of a
thin shell of CoFe2 on the cobalt ferrite and indicate that the nanoparticles
increase to about 100 nm. The magnetization of nanocomposite showed hysteresis
loop that is characteristic of the exchange spring systems. A maximum energy
product (BH)max of 1.22 MGOe was achieved at room temperature for CoFe2O4/CoFe2
nanocomposites, which is about 115% higher than the value obtained for CoFe2O4
precursor. The exchange-spring interaction and the enhancement of product
(BH)max in nanocomposite CoFe2O4/CoFe2 have been discussed.