Phosphorus-bearing compounds have only been studied in the circumstellar
environments (CSEs) of the asymptotic giant branch (AGB) star IRC +10216 and
the protoplanetary nebula CRL 2688, both C-rich objects, and the O-rich red
supergiant VY CMa. The current chemical models cannot reproduce the high
abundances of PO and PN derived from observations of VY CMa. No observations
have been reported of phosphorus in the CSEs of O-rich AGB stars. We aim to set
observational constraints on the phosphorous chemistry in the CSEs of O-rich
AGB stars, by focussing on the Mira-type variable star IK Tau. Using the IRAM
30m telescope and the Submillimeter Array (SMA), we observed four rotational
transitions of PN (J=2-1,3-2,6-5,7-6) and four of PO
(J=5/2-3/2,7/2-5/2,13/2-11/2,15/2-13/2). The IRAM 30m observations were
dedicated line observations, while the SMA data come from an unbiased spectral
survey in the frequency range 279-355 GHz.
  We present the first detections of PN and PO in an O-rich AGB star and
estimate abundances X(PN/H2) of about 3x10^-7 and X(PO/H2) in the range
0.5-6.0x10^-7. This is several orders of magnitude higher than what is found
for the C-rich AGB star IRC +10216. The diameter (<=0.7") of the PN and PO
emission distributions measured in the interferometric data corresponds to a
maximum radial extent of about 40 stellar radii. The abundances and the spatial
occurrence of the molecules are in very good agreement with the results
reported for VY CMa. We did not detect PS or PH3 in the survey. We suggest that
PN and PO are the main carriers of phosphorus in the gas phase, with abundances
possibly up to several 10^-7. The current chemical models cannot account for
this, underlining the strong need for updated chemical models that include
phosphorous compounds.