[Abridged] We present first results from a large-area (~80degx20deg),
sparsely sampled two-filter (B,R) imaging survey towards the Canis Major
stellar over-density, claimed to be a disrupting Milky Way satellite galaxy.
Utilizing stellar colour-magnitude diagrams reaching to B ~ 22 mag, we provide
a first delineation of its surface density distribution using main sequence
stars. Its projected shape is highly elongated, nearly parallel to the Galactic
plane, with an axis ratio of >~ 5:1, substantially more so than what Martin et
al. originally found. We also provide a first map of a prominent over-density
of blue, presumably younger main sequence stars, which appears to have a
maximum near [l,b = 240,-7 deg]. The young population is markedly more
localized. We estimate an upper limit on the line-of-sight (l.o.s.) depth of
the old population based on the main sequence width, obtaining sigma_los < 1.8
+/- 0.3 kpc, at an adopted D_helio = 7.5 +/- 1 kpc. For the young stellar
population, we find sigma_los < 1.5 kpc. There are different explanations for
the CMa over-density: (a) a partially disrupting dwarf galaxy on a low-latitude
orbit, (b) a projection of the warped outer Galactic disk, and (c) a projection
of an out-of-plane spiral arm. While the data provide no firm arguments against
the less well-defined third scenario, they have clear implications for each of
the others: (a) We infer from the strong elongation in longitude, and
simulations in the literature, that the over-density is unlikely to be a
gravitationally bound system at the present epoch, but may well be just a
recently disrupted satellite remnant. (b) Based on modeling, the line-of-sight
depth of the over-density in old stars is clearly inconsistent with published
locally axi-symmetric descriptions of the warped Galactic disk.