We investigate the coupling between rock-size solids and gas during the
formation of gas giant planets by disk fragmentation in the outer regions of
massive disks. In this study, we use three-dimensional radiative hydrodynamics
simulations and model solids as a spatial distribution of particles. We assume
that half of the total solid fraction is in small grains and half in large
solids. The former are perfectly entrained with the gas and set the opacity in
the disk, while the latter are allowed to respond to gas drag forces, with the
back reaction on the gas taken into account. To explore the maximum effects of
gas-solid interactions, we first consider 10cm-size particles. We then compare
these results to a simulation with 1 km-size particles, which explores the
low-drag regime. We show that (1) disk instability planets have the potential
to form large cores due to aerodynamic capturing of rock-size solids in spiral
arms before fragmentation; (2) that temporary clumps can concentrate tens of
$M_{\oplus}$ of solids in very localized regions before clump disruption; (3)
that the formation of permanent clumps, even in the outer disk, is dependent on
the grain-size distribution, i.e., the opacity; (4) that nonaxisymmetric
structure in the disk can create disk regions that have a solids-to-gas ratio
greater than unity; (5) that the solid distribution may affect the
fragmentation process; (6) that proto-gas giants and proto-brown dwarfs can
start as differentiated objects prior to the H$_2$ collapse phase; (7) that
spiral arms in a gravitationally unstable disk are able to stop the inward
drift of rock-size solids, even redistributing them to larger radii; and, (8)
that large solids can form spiral arms that are offset from the gaseous spiral
arms. We conclude that planet embryo formation can be strongly affected by the
growth of solids during the earliest stages of disk accretion.