The absolute luminosities and homogeneity of early-time infrared (IR) light
curves of type Ia supernovae are examined. Eight supernovae are considered.
These are selected to have accurately known epochs of maximum blue light as
well as having reliable distance estimates and/or good light curve coverage.
Two approaches to extinction correction are considered. Owing to the low
extinction in the IR, the differences in the corrections via the two methods
are small. Absolute magnitude light curves in the J, H and K-bands are derived.
Six of the events, including five established ``Branch-normal'' supernovae show
similar coeval magnitudes. Two of these, SNe 1989B and 1998bu, were observed
near maximum infrared light. This occurs about 5 days {\it before} maximum blue
light. Absolute peak magnitudes of about -19.0, -18.7 and -18.8 in J, H & K
respectively were obtained. The two spectroscopically peculiar supernovae in
the sample, SNe 1986G and 1991T, also show atypical IR behaviour. The light
curves of the six similar supernovae can be represented fairly consistently
with a single light curve in each of the three bands. In all three IR bands the
dispersion in absolute magnitude is about 0.15 mag, and this can be accounted
for within the uncertainties of the individual light curves. No significant
variation of absolute IR magnitude with B-band light curve decline rate, Delta
m_{15}(B), is seen over the range 0.87<Delta m_{15}(B)<1.31. However, the data
are insufficient to allow us to decide whether or not the decline rate relation
is weaker in the IR than in the optical region. IR light curves of type Ia
supernovae should eventually provide cosmological distance estimates which are
of equal or even superior quality to those obtained in optical studies.