A simplified thermodynamic approach of the incompressible 2D Euler equation
is considered based on the conservation of energy, circulation and microscopic
enstrophy. Statistical equilibrium states are obtained by maximizing the
Miller-Robert-Sommeria (MRS) entropy under these sole constraints. The
vorticity fluctuations are Gaussian while the mean flow is characterized by a
linear $\bar{\omega}-\psi$ relationship. Furthermore, the maximization of
entropy at fixed energy, circulation and microscopic enstrophy is equivalent to
the minimization of macroscopic enstrophy at fixed energy and circulation. This
provides a justification of the minimum enstrophy principle from statistical
mechanics when only the microscopic enstrophy is conserved among the infinite
class of Casimir constraints. A new class of relaxation equations towards the
statistical equilibrium state is derived. These equations can provide an
effective description of the dynamics towards equilibrium or serve as numerical
algorithms to determine maximum entropy or minimum enstrophy states. We use
these relaxation equations to study geometry induced phase transitions in
rectangular domains. In particular, we illustrate with the relaxation equations
the transition between monopoles and dipoles predicted by Chavanis and Sommeria
[J. Fluid. Mech. 314, 267 (1996)]. We take into account stable as well as
metastable states and show that metastable states are robust and have negative
specific heats. This is the first evidence of negative specific heats in that
context. We also argue that saddle points of entropy can be long-lived and play
a role in the dynamics because the system may not spontaneously generate the
perturbations that destabilize them.