We study the modulational instability of geophysical Rossby and plasma drift
waves within the Charney-Hasegawa-Mima (CHM) model both theoretically, using
truncated (four-mode and three-mode) models, and numerically, using direct
simulations of CHM equation in the Fourier space. The linear theory predicts
instability for any amplitude of the primary wave. For strong primary waves the
most unstable modes are perpendicular to the primary wave, which correspond to
generation of a zonal flow if the primary wave is purely meridional. For weaker
waves, the maximum growth occurs for off-zonal inclined modulations. For very
weak primary waves the unstable waves are close to being in three-wave
resonance with the primary wave. The nonlinear theory predicts that the zonal
flows generated by the linear instability experience pinching into narrow zonal
jets. Our numerical simulations confirm the theoretical predictions of the
linear theory as well as of the nonlinear pinching. We find that, for strong
primary waves, these narrow zonal jets further roll up into Karman-like vortex
streets. On the other hand, for weak primary waves, the growth of the unstable
mode reverses and the system oscillates between a dominant jet and a dominate
primary wave. The 2D vortex streets appear to be more stable than purely 1D
zonal jets, and their zonal-averaged speed can reach amplitudes much stronger
than is allowed by the Rayleigh-Kuo instability criterion for the 1D case. We
find that the truncation models work well for both the linear stage and and
often even for the medium-term nonlinear behavior. In the long term, the system
transitions to turbulence helped by the vortex-pairing instability (for strong
waves) and by the resonant wave-wave interactions (for weak waves).