The large-angle (low-ell) correlations of the Cosmic Microwave Background
(CMB) as reported by the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) after
their first year of observations exhibited statistically significant anomalies
compared to the predictions of the standard inflationary big-bang model. We
suggested then that these implied the presence of a solar system foreground, a
systematic correlated with solar system geometry, or both. We re-examine these
anomalies for the data from the first three years of WMAP's operation. We show
that, despite the identification by the WMAP team of a systematic correlated
with the equinoxes and the ecliptic, the anomalies in the first-year Internal
Linear Combination (ILC) map persist in the three-year ILC map, in all-but-one
case at similar statistical significance. The three-year ILC quadrupole and
octopole therefore remain inconsistent with statistical isotropy -- they are
correlated with each other (99.6% C.L.), and there are statistically
significant correlations with local geometry, especially that of the solar
system. The angular two-point correlation function at scales >60 degrees in the
regions outside the (kp0) galactic cut, where it is most reliably determined,
is approximately zero in all wavebands and is even more discrepant with the
best fit LambdaCDM inflationary model than in the first-year data - 99.97% C.L.
for the new ILC map. The full-sky ILC map, on the other hand, has a
non-vanishing angular two-point correlation function, apparently driven by the
region inside the cut, but which does not agree better with LambdaCDM. The role
of the newly identified low-ell systematics is more puzzling than reassuring.