The mechanisms leading to the hadronic final state of high-energy
proton-proton collisions remain an unresolved issue at the RHIC and LHC. A
substantial contribution to the hadronic final state from minimum-bias (MB)
jets is dominated by non-perturbative processes and may provide the common base
for any high-energy dijet. Observation of a same-side (on azimuth)"ridge" in
LHC p-p collisions suggests to some that hydrodynamic flows may play a role in
that small system at higher energies. The issue of p-p centrality vs triggered
jets has emerged in the context of gluon transverse distributions in the proton
inferred from DIS data. Attempts have been made to isolate and study the
underlying event (UE) complementary to triggered dijets, and it is suggested
that multiple parton interactions may contribute to the UE.
  Reference [1] considered theoretical and experimental results for UE
systematics and p-p centrality in the context of a two-component (soft+hard)
model derived from single-particle $p_t$ spectrum $n_{ch}$ systematics. The
study concluded that there may be a substantial contribution to the UE from the
triggered dijet and that p-p centrality is not controlled significantly by a
jet trigger condition (if p-p centrality is relevant at all). Further study of
two-particle correlations in p-p collisions was called for, particularly the
$n_{ch}$ dependence of MB correlations.
  We report a comprehensive study of MB (no $p_t$ cuts) angular correlations
and trigger-associated (TA) $y_t$ correlations (transverse rapidity $y_t =
\ln[(m_t + p_t)/m_\pi])$ from 200 GeV p-p collisions. Angular correlations are
characterized by 2D model fits that accurately distinguish among proton
dissociation structure (soft), jet-related structure (hard) and a nonjet
azimuth quadrupole. All angular correlations are simply represented by a
(2+1)-component model...