We perform a first principles band calculation for quasi-two-dimensional
organic superconductors $\beta$-(BDA-TTP)$_{2}$I$_{3}$ and
$\beta$-(BDA-TTP)$_{2}$SbF$_{6}$. The first principles band structures between
the I$_{3}$ and SbF$_{6}$ salts are apparently different. We construct a
tight-binding model for each material which accurately reproduces the first
principles band structure. The obtained transfer energies give the differences
such as (i) larger dimerization in the I$_{3}$ salt than the SbF$_{6}$ salt,
and (ii) different signs and directions of the inter-stacking transfer
energies. To decompose the origin of the difference into the dimerization and
the inter-stacking transfer energies, we adopt a simplified model by
eliminating the dimerization effect and extract the difference caused by the
inter-stacking transfer energies. From the analysis using the simplified model,
we find that the difference of the band structure comes mainly from the
strength of dimerization. To compare the strength of the electron correlation
having roots in the band structure, we calculate the physical properties
originated from the effect of the electron correlation such as the spin
susceptibility applying two particle self-consistent (TPSC) method. We find
that the maximum value of the spin susceptibility of the I$_{3}$ salt is larger
than that of the SbF$_{6}$ salt. Hypothetically decreasing the dimerization
within the model of the I$_{3}$ salt, the spin susceptibility takes almost the
same value as that of the SbF$_6$ salt for the same magnitude of the
dimerization. We expect that the different ground state between the I$_{3}$ and
SbF$_{6}$ salt mainly comes from the strength of the dimerization which is
apparently masked in the band calculation along a particular $k$-path.