At high-energy gamma-rays (>100 MeV) the Large Area Telescope (LAT) on the
Fermi satellite already detected more than 145 rotation-powered pulsars (RPPs),
while the number of pulsars seen at soft gamma-rays (20 keV - 30 MeV) remained
small. We present a catalogue of 18 non-recycled RPPs from which presently
non-thermal pulsed emission has been securely detected at soft gamma-rays above
20 keV, and characterize their pulse profiles and energy spectra. For 14 of
them we report new results, (re)analysing mainly data from RXTE, INTEGRAL,
XMM-Newton and Chandra. The soft gamma-pulsars are all fast rotators and on
average ~9.3x younger and ~ 43x more energetic than the Fermi LAT sample. The
majority (11 members) exhibits broad, structured single pulse profiles, and
only 6 have double (or even multiple, Vela) pulses. Fifteen soft gamma-ray
pulsar show hard power-law spectra in the hard X-ray band and reach maximum
luminosities typically in the MeV range. For only 7 of the 18 soft gamma-ray
pulsars pulsed emission has also been detected by the LAT, but 12 have a pulsar
wind nebula (PWN) detected at TeV energies. For six pulsars with PWNe, we
present also the spectra of the total emissions at hard X-rays, and for IGR
J18490-0000, associated with HESS J1849-000 and PSR J1849-0001, we used our
Chandra data to resolve and characterize the contributions from the
point-source and PWN. Finally, we also discuss a sample of 15 pulsars which are
candidates for future detection of pulsed soft gamma-rays, given their
characteristics at other wavelengths.