We present well-sampled $UBVRIJHK$ photometry of SN 2002fk starting 12 days
before maximum light through 122 days after peak brightness, along with a
series of 15 optical spectra from -4 to +95 days since maximum. Our
observations show the presence of C II lines in the early-time spectra of SN
2002fk, expanding at ~11,000 km s$^{-1}~$ and persisting until ~8 days past
maximum light with a velocity of $\sim$9,000 km s$^{-1}~$. SN 2002fk is
characterized by a small velocity gradient of $\dot v_{Si~II}=26$ km s$^{-1}$
day$^{-1}$, possibly caused by an off-center explosion with the ignition region
oriented towards the observer. The connection between viewing angle of an
off-center explosion and the presence of C II in the early time spectrum
suggests that the observation of C II could be also due to a viewing angle
effect. Adopting the Cepheid distance to NGC 1309 we provide the first $H_{0}$
value based on near-IR measurements of a Type Ia supernova between 63.0$\pm$
0.8 ($\pm$ 2.8 systematic) and 66.7$\pm$1.0 ($\pm$ 3.5 systematic) km/s/Mpc,
depending on the absolute magnitude/decline rate relationship adopted. It
appears that the near-IR yields somewhat lower (6-9 %) $H_0$ values than the
optical. It is essential to further examine this issue by (1) expanding the
sample of high-quality near-IR light curves of SNe in the Hubble flow, and (2)
increasing the number of nearby SNe with near-IR SN light curves and precise
Cepheid distances, which affords the promise to deliver a more precise
determination of $H_0$.