The r-mode instability in rotating relativistic stars has been shown recently
to have important astrophysical implications (including the emission of
detectable gravitational radiation, the explanation of the initial spins of
young neutron stars and the spin-distribution of millisecond pulsars and the
explanation of one type of gamma-ray bursts), provided that r-modes are not
saturated at low amplitudes by nonlinear effects or by dissipative mechanisms.
Here, we present the first study of nonlinear r-modes in isentropic, rapidly
rotating relativistic stars, via 3-D general-relativistic hydrodynamical
evolutions. Our numerical simulations show that (1) on dynamical timescales,
there is no strong nonlinear coupling of r-modes to other modes at amplitudes
of order one -- unless nonlinear saturation occurs on longer timescales, the
maximum r-mode amplitude is of order unity (i.e., the velocity perturbation is
of the same order as the rotational velocity at the equator). An absolute upper
limit on the amplitude (relevant, perhaps, for the most rapidly rotating stars)
is set by causality. (2) r-modes and inertial modes in isentropic stars are
predominantly discrete modes and possible associated continuous parts were not
identified in our simulations. (3) In addition, the kinematical drift
associated with r-modes, recently found by Rezzolla, Lamb and Shapiro (2000),
appears to be present in our simulations, but an unambiguous confirmation
requires more precise initial data. We discuss the implications of our findings
for the detectability of gravitational waves from the r-mode instability.