The Ginga data for the gamma-ray burst GRB870303 exhibit low-energy dips in
two temporally distinct spectra, denoted S1 and S2. S1, spanning 4 s, exhibits
a single line candidate at ~ 20 keV, while S2, spanning 9 s, exhibits
apparently harmonically spaced line candidates at ~ 20 and 40 keV. We evaluate
the statistical evidence for these lines, using phenomenological continuum and
line models which in their details are independent of the distance scale to
gamma-ray bursts. We employ the methodologies based on both frequentist and
Bayesian statistical inference that we develop in Freeman et al. (1999b). These
methodologies utilize the information present in the data to select the
simplest model that adequately describes the data from among a wide range of
continuum and continuum-plus-line(s) models. This ensures that the chosen model
does not include free parameters that the data deem unnecessary and that would
act to reduce the frequentist significance and Bayesian odds of the
continuum-plus-line(s) model. We calculate the significance of the
continuum-plus-line(s) models using the Chi-Square Maximum Likelihood Ratio
test. We describe a parametrization of the exponentiated Gaussian absorption
line shape that makes the probability surface in parameter space
better-behaved, allowing us to estimate analytically the Bayesian odds. The
significance of the continuum-plus-line models requested by the S1 and S2 data
are 3.6 x 10^-5 and 1.7 x 10^-4 respectively, with the odds favoring them being
114:1 and 7:1. We also apply our methodology to the combined (S1+S2) data. The
significance of the continuum-plus-lines model requested by the combined data
is 4.2 x 10^-8, with the odds favoring it being 40,300:1.