We examine the properties of the outflowing matter from an advective
accretion disc around a spinning black hole. During accretion, rotating matter
experiences centrifugal pressure supported shock transition that effectively
produces a virtual barrier around the black hole in the form of post-shock
corona (hereafter, PSC). Due to shock compression, PSC becomes hot and dense
that eventually deflects a part of the inflowing matter as bipolar outflows
because of the presence of extra thermal gradient force. In our approach, we
study the outflow properties in terms of the inflow parameters, namely specific
energy (${\mathcal E}$) and specific angular momentum ($\lambda$) considering
the realistic outflow geometry around the rotating black holes. We find that
spin of the black hole ($a_k$) plays an important role in deciding the outflow
rate $R_{\dot m}$ (ratio of mass flux of outflow and inflow), in particular,
$R_{\dot m}$ is directly correlated with $a_k$ for the same set of inflow
parameters. It is found that a large range of the inflow parameters allows
global accretion-ejection solutions and the effective area of the parameter
space (${\mathcal E}$, $\lambda$) with and without outflow decreases with black
hole spin ($a_k$). We compute the maximum outflow rate ($R^{max}_{\dot m}$) as
function of black hole spin ($a_k$) and observe that $R^{max}_{\dot m}$ weakly
depends on $a_k$ that lies in the range $\sim 10\%-18\%$ of the inflow rate for
the adiabatic index $(\gamma)$ with $1.5 \ge \gamma \ge 4/3$. We present the
observational implication of our approach while studying the steady/persistent
Jet activities based on the accretion states of black holes. We discuss that
our formalism seems to have the potential to explain the observed Jet kinetic
power for several Galactic Black Hole sources (GBHs) and Active Galactic Nuclei
(AGNs).