High-$p_T$ particle spectra in $p+p$ ($\bar p + p$), $p+A$ and $A+B$
collisions are calculated within a QCD parton model in which intrinsic
transverse momentum, its broadening due to initial multiple parton scattering,
and jet quenching due to parton energy loss inside a dense medium are included
phenomenologically. The intrinsic $k_T$ and its broadening in $p+A$ and $A+B$
collisions due to initial multiple parton scattering are found to be very
important at low energies ($\sqrt{s}<50$ GeV). Comparisons with $S+S$, $S+Au$
and $Pb+Pb$ data with different centrality cuts show that the differential
cross sections of large transverse momentum pion production ($p_T>1$ GeV/$c$)
in $A+B$ collisions scale very well with the number of binary nucleon-nucleon
collisions (modulo effects of multiple initial scattering). This indicates that
semi-hard parton scattering is the dominant particle production mechanism
underlying the hadron spectra at moderate $p_T \stackrel{>}{\sim} 1$ GeV/$c$.
However, there is no evidence of jet quenching or parton energy loss. Within
the parton model, one can exclude an effective parton energy loss
$dE_q/dx>0.01$ GeV/fm and a mean free path $\lambda_q< 7$ fm from the
experimental data of $A+B$ collisions at the SPS energies. Predictions for high
$p_T$ particle spectra in $p+A$ and $A+A$ collisions with and without jet
quenching at the RHIC energy are also given. Uncertainties due to initial
multiple scattering and nuclear shadowing of parton distributions are also
discussed.