Variance spectral analysis of superconducting gravimeter (SG) decadal data
(noise inclusive) is presented suggesting that the Earth tectonogenesis is
based on magnification of the mass (mainly the mantle) mechanical resonance, in
addition to or instead of previously hypothesized causes. Here the use of raw
(gapped and unaltered) data is regarded as the criterion for a physical result
validity, so data were not altered in any way. Then analogously to the
atmospheric tidal forcing of global high frequency free oscillation, I propose
that the Moon synodically recurring pull could likewise drive the long-periodic
(12 to 120 minutes) oscillation of the Earth. To demonstrate this, I show that
the daily magnitudes of mass (gravity) oscillation, as a relative measure of
the non-stationary Earth kinetic energy, get synodically periodic while
correlating up to 0.97 with seismic energies on the day of shallow and 3 days
before deep earthquakes. The forced oscillator equations for the mantle usual
viscosity and the Earth springtide and grave mode periods successfully model an
identical 3 days phase. Finally, whereas reports on gravest earthquakes (of
around M9.5) put the maximum coseismic displacement at around 10 m, the same
equations predict the maximum displacement as 9.8 m, too. Hence, the same
mechanism that causes bridges to collapse under the soldiers step marching
could be making the lithosphere fail under the springtide induced magnification
of mantle resonance resulting in strong earthquakes of unspecified type. If
this assertion is correct, then many if not most large earthquakes could be
spatially and temporally predictable.