The black-hole X-ray binary transient GRO J1655-40 underwent an outburst
beginning in early 2005. We present the results of our multi-wavelength
observational campaign to study the early outburst spectral and temporal
evolution, which combines data from X-ray (RXTE, INTEGRAL), radio (VLA) and
optical (ROTSE, SMARTS) instruments. During the reported period the source left
quiescence and went through four major accreting black hole states: low-hard,
hard intermediate, soft intermediate and high-soft. We investigated dipping
behavior in the RXTE band and compare our results to the 1996-1997 case, when
the source was predominantly in the high-soft state, finding significant
differences. We consider the evolution of the low frequency quasi-periodic
oscillations and find that the frequency strongly correlates with the spectral
characteristics, before shutting off prior to the transition to the high-soft
state. We model the broad-band high-energy spectrum in the context of empirical
models, as well as more physically motivated thermal and bulk-motion
Comptonization and Compton reflection models. RXTE and INTEGRAL data together
support a statistically significant high energy cut-off in the energy spectrum
at 100~200 keV during the low-hard state. The RXTE data alone also show it very
significantly during the transition, but cannot see one in the high-soft state
spectra. We consider radio, optical and X-ray connections in the context of
possible synchrotron and synchrotron self-Compton origins of X-ray emission in
low-hard and intermediate states. In this outburst of GRO J1655-40, the radio
flux does not rise strongly with the X-ray flux.