Spectral Domain Optical Coherence Tomography (SD-OCT) is a well-known imaging
modality which allows for \textit{in-vivo} visualization of the morphology of
different biological tissues at cellular level resolutions. The overall SD-OCT
imaging quality in terms of axial resolution and Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR)
degrades with imaging depth, while the lateral resolution degrades with
distance from the focal plane. This image quality degradation is due both to
the design of the SD-OCT imaging system and the optical properties of the
imaged object. Here, we present a novel Depth Compensated SD-OCT (DC-OCT)
system that integrates a Depth Compensating Digital Signal Processing (DC-DSP)
module to improve the overall imaging quality via digital compensation. The
designed DC-DSP module can be integrated to any SD-OCT system and is able to
simultaneously compensate for the depth-dependent loss of axial and lateral
resolutions, depth-varying SNR, as well as sidelobe artifact for improved
imaging quality. The integrated DC-DSP module is based on a unified Maximum a
Posteriori (MAP) framework which incorporates a Stochastically Fully-connected
Conditional Random Field (SF-CRF) model to produce tomograms with reduced
speckle noise and artifact, as well as higher spatial resolution. The
performance of our proposed DC-OCT system was tested on a USAF resolution
target as well as different biological tissue samples, and the results
demonstrate the potential of the proposed DC-OCT system for improving spatial
resolution, contrast, and SNR.