We present the results of time-integrated searches for astrophysical neutrino
sources in both the northern and southern skies. Data were collected using the
partially-completed IceCube detector in the 40-string configuration between
2008 April 5 and 2009 May 20, totaling 375.5 days livetime. An unbinned maximum
likelihood ratio method is used to search for astrophysical signals. The data
sample contains 36,900 events: 14,121 from the northern sky, mostly muons
induced by atmospheric neutrinos and 22,779 from the southern sky, mostly high
energy atmospheric muons. The analysis includes searches for individual point
sources and targeted searches for specific stacked source classes and spatially
extended sources. While this analysis is sensitive to TeV-PeV energy neutrinos
in the northern sky, it is primarily sensitive to neutrinos with energy greater
than about 1 PeV in the southern sky. No evidence for a signal is found in any
of the searches. Limits are set for neutrino fluxes from astrophysical sources
over the entire sky and compared to predictions. The sensitivity is at least a
factor of two better than previous searches (depending on declination), with
90% confidence level muon neutrino flux upper limits being between E^2 dN/dE ~
2 - 200 \times 10^-12 TeV cm^-2 s^-1 in the northern sky and between 3 -700
\times 10^-12 TeV cm^-2 s^-1 in the southern sky. The stacked source searches
provide the best limits to specific source classes. The full IceCube detector
is expected to improve the sensitivity to E^-2 sources by another factor of two
in the first year of operation.