This thesis strives to improve our understanding of solar activity,
specifically the behaviour of solar flares and coronal mass ejections. An
investigation into the hydrodynamic evolution of a confined solar flare was
carried out using RHESSI, CDS, GOES and TRACE. Evidence for pre-flare heating,
explosive and gentle chromospheric evaporation and loop draining were observed
in the data. The observations were compared to a 0-D hydrodynamic model, EBTEL,
to aid interpretation. This led to the conclusion that the flare was not heated
purely by non-thermal beam heating as previously believed, but also required
direct heating of the plasma. An observational investigation in to the
initiation mechanism of a coronal mass ejection and eruptive flare was then
carried out, again utilising observations from a wide range of spacecraft:
MESSENGER/SAX, RHESSI, EUVI, Cor1 and Cor2. Observations provided evidence of
CME triggering by internal tether-cutting and not by breakout reconnection. A
comparison of the confined and eruptive flares suggests that while they have
different characteristics, timescales and topologies, these two phenomena are
the result of the same fundamental processes. Finally, an investigation into
the sensitivity of EUV imaging telescopes was carried out. This study
established a new technique for calculating the sensitivity of EUV imagers to
plasmas of different temperatures for four different types of plasma: coronal
hole, quiet sun, active region and solar flare. This was carried out for six
instruments: Proba-2/SWAP, TRACE, SOHO/EIT, STEREO A/EUVI, STEREO B/EUVI and
SDO/AIA. The importance of considering the multi-thermal nature of these
instruments was then put into the context of investigating explosive solar
activity.