The Bayesian gravitational shear estimation algorithm developed by Bernstein
and Armstrong (2014) can potentially be used to overcome multiplicative noise
bias and recover shear using very low signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) galaxy
images. In that work the contributors confirmed the method is nearly unbiased in a
simplified demonstration, but no test was performed on images with realistic
pixel noise. Here I present a full implementation for fitting models to galaxy
images, including the effects of a point spread function (PSF) and
pixelization. I tested the implementation using simulated galaxy images modeled
as Sersic profiles with n=1 (exponential) and n=4 (De Vaucouleurs'), convolved
with a PSF and a flat pixel response function. I used a round Gaussian model
for the PSF to avoid potential PSF-fitting errors. I simulated galaxies with
mean observed, post-PSF full-width at half maximum equal to approximately 1.2
times that of the PSF, with log-normal scatter. I also drew fluxes from a
log-normal distribution. I produced independent simulations, each with pixel
noise tuned to produce different mean S/N ranging from 10-1000. I applied a
constant shear to all images. I fit the simulated images to a model with the
true Sersic index to avoid modeling biases. I recovered the input shear with
fractional error less than 2 x 10^{-3} in all cases. In these controlled
conditions, and in the absence of other multiplicative errors, this
implementation is sufficiently unbiased for current surveys and approaches the
requirements for planned surveys.