Context. Reflected light from a spatially unresolved planet yields unique
insight into the overall optical properties of the planet cover. Glories are
optical phenomena caused by light that is backscattered within spherical
droplets following a narrow distribution of sizes; they are well known on Earth
as localised features above liquid clouds. Aims. Here we report the first
evidence for a glory in the disk-integrated photometry of Venus and, in turn,
of any planet. Methods. We used previously published phase curves of the planet
that were reproduced over the full range of phase angles with model predictions
based on a realistic description of the Venus atmosphere. We assumed that the
optical properties of the planet as a whole can be described by a uniform and
stable cloud cover, an assumption that agrees well with observational evidence.
Results. We specifically show that the measured phase curves mimic the
scattering properties of the Venus upper-cloud micron-sized aerosols, also at
the small phase angles at which the glory occurs, and that the glory contrast
is consistent with what is expected after multiple scattering of photons. In
the optical, the planet appears to be brighter at phase angles of 11-13 deg
than at full illumination; it undergoes a maximum dimming of up to 10 percent
at phases in between. Conclusions. Glories might potentially indicate spherical
droplets and, thus, extant liquid clouds in the atmospheres of exoplanets. A
prospective detection will require exquisite photometry at the small
planet-star separations of the glory phase angles.