The effective content of cosmic rays (CR) in galaxy clusters remains elusive.
This paper aims to estimate a maximum production of both secondary relativistic
electrons, SRE, and gamma rays, GR, from the relativistic protons, RP, that
have supposedly accumulated throughout the entire history of a cluster. The
production rate is normalized by adopting a reference value of 0.3 for the
ratio of RP to thermal pressure. The SRE content which obtains, when
constrained to reproduce the observed radio brightness profile, yields
univocally B(r), if the presence of primary RE were negligible. This procedure
is applied to four radio halo clusters (Coma, A2163, A2255, A2319). In these
objects, the central value B_0 required is consistent with typical, albeit
rather uncertain, values derived from FR. On the other hand, B(r) typically
increases beyond the thermal core, a hardly acceptable condition. This problem
is alleviated by assuming a mix of SRE and of primary RE, with the latter
becoming the dominant component beyond the thermal core. These results suggest
that in clusters without a radio halo detected so far a diffuse radio emission
should also be observable due to SRE alone, and therefore more centrally
condensed. To encourage deeper radio observations of such clusters, some
examples were selected that seem rather promising. Efforts in this direction,
if accompanied by FR measurements, could provide highly significant constraints
on the CR content in clusters, even before the GLAST mission will have
accomplished the hard task of detecting the GR. A complementary result concerns
the excess far UV in the Coma cluster, that some contributors have attributed to IC
emission from SRE. It is shown that this hypothesis can be excluded, because it
requires a RP energy content in excess of the thermal one.