The probability distribution function (PDF) of the mass surface density of
molecular clouds provides essential information about the structure of
molecular cloud gas and condensed structures out of which stars may form. In
general, the PDF shows two basic components: a broad distribution around the
maximum with resemblance to a log-normal function, and a tail at high mass
surface densities attributed to turbulence and self-gravity. In a previous
paper, the PDF of condensed structures has been analyzed and an analytical
formula presented based on a truncated radial density profile, $\rho(r) =
\rho_c/(1+(r/r_0)^2)^{n/2}$ with central density $\rho_c$ and inner radius
$r_0$, widely used in astrophysics as a generalization of physical density
profiles. In this paper, the results are applied to analyze the PDF of
self-gravitating, isothermal, pressurized, spherical (Bonnor-Ebert spheres) and
cylindrical condensed structures with emphasis on the dependence of the PDF on
the external pressure $p_{ext}$ and on the overpressure $q^{-1} =p_c /p_{ext}$,
where $p_c$ is the central pressure. Apart from individual clouds, we also
consider ensembles of spheres or cylinders, where effects caused by a variation
of pressure ratio, a distribution of condensed cores within a turbulent gas,
and (in case of cylinders) a distribution of inclination angles on the mean PDF
are analyzed. The probability distribution of pressure ratios $q^{-1}$ is
assumed to be given by $P(q^{-1}) \propto
q^{-k_1}/(1+(q_0/q)^{\gamma})^{(k_1+k_2)/{\gamma}}$, where $k_1$, ${\gamma}$,
$k_2$, and $q_0$ are fixed parameters.