Regions of rapid variation in the internal structure of a star are often
referred to as acoustic glitches since they create a characteristic periodic
signature in the frequencies of p modes. Here we examine the localized
disturbance arising from the helium second ionization zone in red giant branch
and clump stars. More specifically, we determine how accurately and precisely
the parameters of the ionization zone can be obtained from the oscillation
frequencies of stellar models. We use models produced by three different
generation codes that not only cover a wide range of stages of evolution along
the red giant phase but also incorporate different initial helium abundances.
We discuss the conditions under which such fits robustly and accurately
determine the acoustic radius of the second ionization zone of helium. The
determined radii of the ionization zones as inferred from the mode frequencies
were found to be coincident with the local maximum in the first adiabatic
exponent described by the models, which is associated with the outer edge of
the second ionization zone of helium. Finally, we consider whether this method
can be used to distinguish stars with different helium abundances. Although a
definite trend in the amplitude of the signal is observed any distinction would
be difficult unless the stars come from populations with vastly different
helium abundances or the uncertainties associated with the fitted parameters
can be reduced. However, application of our methodology could be useful for
distinguishing between different populations of red giant stars in globular
clusters, where distinct populations with very different helium abundances have
been observed.