We discuss, by means of mode-matching analysis for the Dirac equation, how
splittings of the Landau-level (LL) degeneracies associated with spin, valley,
and layer degrees of freedom affect the ballistic conductance of graphene
bilayer. The results show that for wide samples ($W\gg{}L$) the
Landauer-B\"{u}ttiker conductance reaches the maximum
$G\simeq{}se^2/(\pi{h})\times{}W/L$ at the resonance via each LL, with the
prefactor varying from $s=8$ if all three degeneracies are preserved, to $s=1$
if all the degeneracies are split. In the absence of bias between the layers,
the degeneracies associated with spin and layer degrees of freedom may be split
by manipulating the doping and magnetic field; the conductance at the zeroth LL
is twice as large, while the conductance at any other LL equals to the
corresponding conductance of graphene monolayer. The presence of bias potential
allows one also to split the valley degeneracy. Our results show that the
charge transfer at each LL has pseudodiffusive character, with the second and
third cumulant quantified by ${\cal F}=1/3$ and ${\cal R}=1/15$ (respectively).
In case the electrochemical potential is allowed to slowly fluctuate in a
finite vicinity of LL, the resulting charge-transfer characteristics are still
quantum-limited, with ${\cal F}\simeq{}0.7$ and ${\cal R}\simeq{}0.5$ in the
limit of large fluctuations. The above values of ${\cal F}$ and ${\cal R}$ are
also predicted to be approached in the limit of high source-drain voltage
difference applied. The possible effects of indirect interlayer hopping
integrals are also briefly discussed.