In the spectra of pulsating stars, especially Mira stars, the detection of
intense hydrogen emission lines has been explained by a radiative shock wave,
periodically propagating throughout the atmosphere. Previous observation of the
Mira star omicron Ceti around a bright maximum of light led to the detection of
a strong linear polarization associated to Balmer emissions, although the
origin of this phenomenon is not fully explained yet. With the help of
spectropolarimetry, we propose to investigate the nature of shock waves
propagating throughout the stellar atmosphere and present, for omicron Ceti
(the prototype of Mira stars), a full observational study of hydrogen emission
lines formed in the radiative region of such a shock. Using the instrument
NARVAL, we performed a spectropolarimetric monitoring of omicron Ceti during
three consecutive pulsation cycles. All Stokes parameters were systematically
collected, with a particular emphasis on the maxima of luminosity, i.e. when a
radiative shock wave is supposed to emerge from the photosphere and propagate
outward. On Balmer lines, over a large part of the luminosity cycle, we report
detections in Stokes spectra which are evolving with time. These signatures
appear to be strongly correlated to the presence of an intense shock wave
responsible for the hydrogen emission lines. We establish that those lines are
polarized by a process inherent to the mechanism responsible for the emission
line formation: the shock wave itself. Two mechanisms are considered: a global
one that implies a polarization induced by convective cells located around the
photosphere and a local one that implies a charge separation due to the passage
of the shock wave, inducing an electrical current. Combined with the existing
turbulence, this may generate a magnetic field, hence polarization.