Aims: We carried out high-resolution spectroscopy and BV(I)_C photometric
monitoring of the two fastest late-type rotators in the nearby Beta Pictoris
moving group, HD199143 (F7V) and CD-641208 (K7V). The motivation for this work
is to investigate the rotation periods and photospheric spot patterns of these
very young stars, with a longer term view to probing the evolution of rotation
and magnetic activity during the early phases of main-sequence evolution. We
also aim to derive information on key physical parameters, such as rotational
velocity and rotation period. Methods: We applied maximum entropy (ME) and
Tikhonov regularizing (TR) criteria to derive the surface spot map
distributions of the optical modulation observed in HD199143 (F7 V) and
CD-641208 (K7V). We also used cross-correlation techniques to determine stellar
parameters such as radial velocities and rotational velocities. Lomb-Scargle
periodograms were used to obtain the rotational periods from differential
magnitude time series. Results: We find periods and inclinations of 0.356 days
and 21.5deg for HD199143, and 0.355 days and 50.1deg for CD-641208. The spot
maps of HD199143 obtained from the ME and TR methods are very similar, although
the latter gives a smoother distribution of the filling factor. Maps obtained
at two different epochs three weeks apart show a remarkable increase in spot
coverage amounting to ~7% of the surface of the photosphere over a time period
of only ~20 days. The spot maps of CD-641208 from the two methods show good
longitudinal agreement, whereas the latitude range of the spots is extended to
cover the whole visible hemisphere in the TR map. The distributions obtained
from the first light curve of HD199143 show the presence of an extended and
asymmetric active longitude with the maximum filling factor at longitude
~325degree.