We prove an incidence theorem for points and planes in the projective
three-space $\mathbb P^3$ over any field $\mathbb F$, whose characteristic is
not equal to $2$. An incidence is viewed as an intersection of two planes from
two canonical rulings of the Klein quadric along a line. The Klein quadric can
be traversed by a generic $\mathbb P^4$, yielding a line-line incidence problem
in a $3D$ quadric. In the latter problem one can assume that at most two lines
meet at any point and get an incidence bound by an application of an algebraic
polynomial {\em Nullstellensatz} theorem of Guth and Katz.
  It is shown that the number of incidences between $m$ points and $n$ planes
in $\mathbb P^3$, with $m\geq n$ is $$O\left(m\sqrt{n}+ m k\right),$$ where $k$
denotes the maximum number of collinear planes. If $\mathbb F$ has positive
characteristic $p$, there is a constraint $n=O(p^2)$, which cannot be lifted
without additional assumptions. We furnish an example, showing that for $m=n$,
$k\sim\sqrt{n}$ the bound is tight.
  Stronger point-plane incidence bounds are known over $\mathbb R$, but their
proofs do not extend to the positive characteristic case. The paper ends with
some applications of its main result, proving new geometric incidence estimates
over fields with positive characteristic. For any non-collinear point set
$S\subseteq \mathbb F^2$, the number of distinct vector products generated by
pairs of points in $S$ is
$\Omega\left[\min\left(|S|^{\frac{2}{3}},p\right)\right]$. For any $A\subseteq
\mathbb F$, one has $$ |AA\pm AA|= \Omega
\left[\min\left(|A|^{\frac{3}{2}},p\right)\right]. $$ We also prove a new
result for the Erd\"os distance problem in $\mathbb F^3$: a set $S\subseteq
\mathbb F^3$, not supported in a single semi-isotropic plane contains a point,
from which $\Omega\left[\min\left(|S|^{\frac{1}{2}},p\right)\right]$ distinct
distances are realised.