The code that combines channel estimation and error protection has received
general attention recently, and has been considered a promising methodology to
compensate multi-path fading effect. It has been shown by simulations that such
code design can considerably improve the system performance over the
conventional design with separate channel estimation and error protection
modules under the same code rate. Nevertheless, the major obstacle that
prevents from the practice of the codes is that the existing codes are mostly
searched by computers, and hence exhibit no good structure for efficient
decoding. Hence, the time-consuming exhaustive search becomes the only decoding
choice, and the decoding complexity increases dramatically with the codeword
length. In this paper, by optimizing the signal-tonoise ratio, we found a
systematic construction for the codes for combined channel estimation and error
protection, and confirmed its equivalence in performance to the
computer-searched codes by simulations. Moreover, the structural codes that we
construct by rules can now be maximum-likelihoodly decodable in terms of a
newly derived recursive metric for use of the priority-first search decoding
algorithm. Thus,the decoding complexity reduces significantly when compared
with that of the exhaustive decoder. The extension code design for fast-fading
channels is also presented. Simulations conclude that our constructed extension
code is robust in performance even if the coherent period is shorter than the
codeword length.