In the context of the study of the properties of the mutual mass distribution
of the bright and dark matter in elliptical galaxies, present a family of
two-component, spherical, self-consistent galaxy models, where one density
distribution follows a gamma_1 profile, and the other a gamma_2 profile
[(gamma_1,gamma_2) models], with different total masses and ``core'' radii. A
variable amount of Osipkov-Merritt (radial) orbital anisotropy is allowed in
both components. For these models, I derive analytically the necessary and
sufficient conditions that the model parameters must satisfy in order to
correspond to a physical system. Moreover, the possibility of adding a black
hole at the center of radially anisotropic gamma models is discussed,
determining analytically a lower limit of the anisotropy radius as a function
of gamma. The analytical phase-space distribution function for (1,0) models is
presented, together with the solution of the Jeans equations and the quantities
entering the scalar virial theorem. It is proved that a globally isotropic
gamma=1 component is consistent for any mass and core radius of the
superimposed gamma=0 model; on the contrary, only a maximum value of the core
radius is allowed for the gamma=0 model when a gamma=1 density distribution is
added. The combined effects of mass concentration and orbital anisotropy are
investigated, and an interesting behavior of the distribution function of the
anisotropic gamma=0 component is found: there exists a region in the parameter
space where a sufficient amount of anisotropy results in a consistent model,
while the structurally identical but isotropic model would be inconsistent.