Context. The modern generation of Cherenkov telescopes has revealed a new
population of gamma-ray sources in the Galaxy. Some of them have been
identified with previously known X-ray binary systems while other remain
without clear counterparts a lower energies. Our initial goal here was
reporting on extensive radio observations of the first extended and yet
unidentified source, namely TeV J2032+4130. This object was originally detected
by the HEGRA telescope in the direction of the Cygnus OB2 region and its nature
has been a matter of debate during the latest years.
  Aims. We aim to pursue our radio exploration of the TeV J2032+4130 position
that we initiated in a previous paper but taking now into account the latest
results from new Whipple and MILAGRO TeV telescopes.
  Methods. Our investigation is mostly based on interferometric radio
observations with the Giant Metre Wave Radio Telescope (GMRT) close to Pune
(India) and the Very Large Array (VLA) in New Mexico (USA). We also conducted
near infrared observations with the 3.5 m telescope and the OMEGA2000 camera at
the Centro Astronomico Hispano Aleman (CAHA) in Almeria (Spain).
  Results. We present deep radio maps centered on the TeV J2032+4130 position
at different wavelengths. In particular, our 49 and 20 cm maps cover a field of
view larger than half a degree that fully includes the Whipple position and the
peak of MILAGRO emission. Our most important result here is a catalogue of 153
radio sources detected at 49 cm within the GMRT antennae primary beam with a
full width half maximum (FWHM) of 43 arc-minute. Moreover, our
multi-configuration VLA images reveal the non-thermal extended emission
previously reported by us with improved angular resolution.