This paper considers transmission schemes in multi-access relay networks
(MARNs) where $J$ single-antenna sources send independent information to one
$N$-antenna destination through one $M$-antenna relay. For complexity
considerations, we propose a linear framework, where the relay linearly
transforms its received signals to generate the forwarded signals without
decoding and the destination uses its multi-antennas to fully decouple signals
from different sources before decoding, by which the decoding complexity is
linear in the number of sources. To achieve a high symbol rate, we first
propose a scheme called DSTC-ICRec in which all sources' information streams
are concurrently transmitted in both the source-relay link and the
relay-destination link. In this scheme, distributed space-time coding (DSTC) is
applied at the relay, which satisfies the linear constraint. DSTC also allows
the destination to conduct the zero-forcing interference cancellation (IC)
scheme originally proposed for multi-antenna systems to fully decouple signals
from different sources. Our analysis shows that the symbol rate of DSTC-ICRec
is $1/2$ symbols/source/channel use and the diversity gain of the scheme is
upperbounded by $M-J+1$. To achieve a higher diversity gain, we propose another
scheme called TDMA-ICRec in which the sources time-share the source-relay link.
The relay coherently combines the signals on its antennas to maximize the
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of each source, then concurrently forwards all
sources' information. The destination performs zero-forcing IC. It is shown
through both analysis and simulation that when $N \ge 2J-1$, TDMA-ICRec
achieves the same maximum diversity gain as the full TDMA scheme in which the
information stream from each source is assigned to an orthogonal channel in
both links, but with a higher symbol rate.