This work revisits the PCP Verifiers used in the works of Hastad [Has01],
Guruswami et al.[GHS02], Holmerin[Hol02] and Guruswami[Gur00] for satisfiable
Max-E3-SAT and Max-Ek-Set-Splitting, and independent set in 2-colorable
4-uniform hypergraphs. We provide simpler and more efficient PCP Verifiers to
prove the following improved hardness results: Assuming that NP\not\subseteq
DTIME(N^{O(loglog N)}),
  There is no polynomial time algorithm that, given an n-vertex 2-colorable
4-uniform hypergraph, finds an independent set of n/(log n)^c vertices, for
some constant c > 0.
  There is no polynomial time algorithm that satisfies 7/8 + 1/(log n)^c
fraction of the clauses of a satisfiable Max-E3-SAT instance of size n, for
some constant c > 0.
  For any fixed k >= 4, there is no polynomial time algorithm that finds a
partition splitting (1 - 2^{-k+1}) + 1/(log n)^c fraction of the k-sets of a
satisfiable Max-Ek-Set-Splitting instance of size n, for some constant c > 0.
  Our hardness factor for independent set in 2-colorable 4-uniform hypergraphs
is an exponential improvement over the previous results of Guruswami et
al.[GHS02] and Holmerin[Hol02]. Similarly, our inapproximability of (log
n)^{-c} beyond the random assignment threshold for Max-E3-SAT and
Max-Ek-Set-Splitting is an exponential improvement over the previous bounds
proved in [Has01], [Hol02] and [Gur00]. The PCP Verifiers used in our results
avoid the use of a variable bias parameter used in previous works, which leads
to the improved hardness thresholds in addition to simplifying the analysis
substantially. Apart from standard techniques from Fourier Analysis, for the
first mentioned result we use a mixing estimate of Markov Chains based on
uniform reverse hypercontractivity over general product spaces from the work of
Mossel et al.[MOS13].