We often encounter probability distributions given as unnormalized products
of non-negative functions. The factorization structures are represented by
hypergraphs called factor graphs. Such distributions appear in various fields,
including statistics, artificial intelligence, statistical physics, error
correcting codes, etc. Given such a distribution, computations of marginal
distributions and the normalization constant are often required. However, they
are computationally intractable because of their computational costs. One
successful approximation method is Loopy Belief Propagation (LBP) algorithm.
The focus of this thesis is an analysis of the LBP algorithm. If the factor
graph is a tree, i.e. having no cycle, the algorithm gives the exact
quantities. If the factor graph has cycles, however, the LBP algorithm does not
give exact results and possibly exhibits oscillatory and non-convergent
behaviors. The thematic question of this thesis is "How the behaviors of the
LBP algorithm are affected by the discrete geometry of the factor graph?" The
primary contribution of this thesis is the discovery of a formula that
establishes the relation between the LBP, the Bethe free energy and the graph
zeta function. This formula provides new techniques for analysis of the LBP
algorithm, connecting properties of the graph and of the LBP and the Bethe free
energy. We demonstrate applications of the techniques to several problems
including (non) convexity of the Bethe free energy, the uniqueness and
stability of the LBP fixed point. We also discuss the loop series initiated by
Chertkov and Chernyak. The loop series is a subgraph expansion of the
normalization constant, or partition function, and reflects the graph geometry.
We investigate theoretical natures of the series. Moreover, we show a partial
connection between the loop series and the graph zeta function.