Probabilistic inference over large data sets is an increasingly important
data management challenge. The central problem is that exact inference is
generally #P-hard, which limits the size of data that can be efficiently
queried. This paper proposes a new approach for approximate evaluation of
queries over probabilistic databases: in this approach, every query is
evaluated entirely in the database engine by evaluating a fixed number of query
plans, each providing an upper bound on the true probability, then taking their
minimum. We provide an algorithm that takes into account important schema
information to enumerate only the minimal necessary plans among all possible
plans. Importantly, this algorithm is a strict generalization of all known
results of PTIME self-join free conjunctive queries: the query is safe if and
only if our algorithm returns one single plan. Furthermore, our approach is a
generalization of a family of efficient network ranking functions from graphs
to hypergraphs. We also describe three relational query optimization techniques
that allow us to evaluate all minimal safe plans in a single query and very
fast. We give a detailed experimental evaluation of our approach and, in the
process, provide new way of thinking about the value of probabilistic methods
over non-probabilistic methods for ranking query answers. We also note that the
techniques developed in this paper apply immediately to lifted inference from
statistical relational models since lifted inference corresponds to safe plans
in probabilistic databases.