A hypergraph is said to be $\chi$-colorable if its vertices can be colored
with $\chi$ colors so that no hyperedge is monochromatic. $2$-colorability is a
fundamental property (called Property B) of hypergraphs and is extensively
studied in combinatorics. Algorithmically, however, given a $2$-colorable
$k$-uniform hypergraph, it is NP-hard to find a $2$-coloring miscoloring fewer
than a fraction $2^{-k+1}$ of hyperedges (which is achieved by a random
$2$-coloring), and the best algorithms to color the hypergraph properly require
$\approx n^{1-1/k}$ colors, approaching the trivial bound of $n$ as $k$
increases.
  In this work, we study the complexity of approximate hypergraph coloring, for
both the maximization (finding a $2$-coloring with fewest miscolored edges) and
minimization (finding a proper coloring using fewest number of colors)
versions, when the input hypergraph is promised to have the following stronger
properties than $2$-colorability:
  (A) Low-discrepancy: If the hypergraph has discrepancy $\ell \ll \sqrt{k}$,
we give an algorithm to color the it with $\approx n^{O(\ell^2/k)}$ colors.
However, for the maximization version, we prove NP-hardness of finding a
$2$-coloring miscoloring a smaller than $2^{-O(k)}$ (resp. $k^{-O(k)}$)
fraction of the hyperedges when $\ell = O(\log k)$ (resp. $\ell=2$). Assuming
the UGC, we improve the latter hardness factor to $2^{-O(k)}$ for almost
discrepancy-$1$ hypergraphs.
  (B) Rainbow colorability: If the hypergraph has a $(k-\ell)$-coloring such
that each hyperedge is polychromatic with all these colors, we give a
$2$-coloring algorithm that miscolors at most $k^{-\Omega(k)}$ of the
hyperedges when $\ell \ll \sqrt{k}$, and complement this with a matching UG
hardness result showing that when $\ell =\sqrt{k}$, it is hard to even beat the
$2^{-k+1}$ bound achieved by a random coloring.