Let P=(p_1,p_2,...,p_N) be a sequence of points in the plane, where
p_i=(x_i,y_i) and x_1<x_2<...<x_N. A famous 1935 Erdos--Szekeres theorem
asserts that every such P contains a monotone subsequence S of $\sqrt N$
points. Another, equally famous theorem from the same paper implies that every
such P contains a convex or concave subsequence of $\Omega(\log N)$ points.
  Monotonicity is a property determined by pairs of points, and convexity
concerns triples of points. We propose a generalization making both of these
theorems members of an infinite family of Ramsey-type results. First we define
a (k+1)-tuple $K\subseteq P$ to be positive if it lies on the graph of a
function whose kth derivative is everywhere nonnegative, and similarly for a
negative (k+1)-tuple. Then we say that $S\subseteq P$ is kth-order monotone if
its (k+1)-tuples are all positive or all negative.
  We investigate quantitative bound for the corresponding Ramsey-type result
(i.e., how large kth-order monotone subsequence can be guaranteed in every
N-point P). We obtain an $\Omega(\log^{(k-1)}N)$ lower bound ((k-1)-times
iterated logarithm). This is based on a quantitative Ramsey-type theorem for
what we call transitive colorings of the complete (k+1)-uniform hypergraph; it
also provides a unified view of the two classical Erdos--Szekeres results
mentioned above.
  For k=3, we construct a geometric example providing an $O(\log\log N)$ upper
bound, tight up to a multiplicative constant. As a consequence, we obtain
similar upper bounds for a Ramsey-type theorem for order-type homogeneous
subsets in R^3, as well as for a Ramsey-type theorem for hyperplanes in R^4
recently used by Dujmovic and Langerman.