We consider the cheating strategies for the popular matchings problem. The
popular matchings problem can be defined as follows: Let G = (A U P, E) be a
bipartite graph where A denotes a set of agents, P denotes a set of posts and
the edges in E are ranked. Each agent ranks a subset of posts in an order of
preference, possibly involving ties. A matching M is popular if there exists no
matching M' such that the number of agents that prefer M' to M exceeds the
number of agents that prefer M to M'. Consider a centralized market where
agents submit their preferences and a central contributority matches agents to posts
according to the notion of popularity. Since a popular matching need not be
unique, we assume that the central contributority chooses an arbitrary popular
matching. Let a1 be the sole manipulative agent who is aware of the true
preference lists of all other agents. The goal of a1 is to falsify her
preference list to get better always, that is, to improve the set of posts that
she gets matched to as opposed to what she got when she was truthful. We show
that the optimal cheating strategy for a single agent to get better always can
be computed in O(\sqrt{n}m) time when preference lists are allowed to contain
ties and in O(m+n) time when preference lists are all strict. Here n = |A| +
|P| and m = |E|.
  To compute the cheating strategies, we develop a switching graph
characterization of the popular matchings problem involving ties. The switching
graph characterization was studied for the case of strict lists by McDermid and
Irving (J. Comb. Optim. 2011) and it was open for the case of ties. The
switching graph characterization for the case of ties is of independent
interest and answers a part of the open questions posed by McDermid and Irving.