Let F be a family of r-uniform hypergraphs. The chromatic threshold of F is
the infimum of all non-negative reals c such that the subfamily of F comprising
hypergraphs H with minimum degree at least $c \binom{|V(H)|}{r-1}$ has bounded
chromatic number. This parameter has a long history for graphs (r=2), and in
this paper we begin its systematic study for hypergraphs.
  {\L}uczak and Thomass\'e recently proved that the chromatic threshold of the
so-called near bipartite graphs is zero, and our main contribution is to
generalize this result to r-uniform hypergraphs. For this class of hypergraphs,
we also show that the exact Tur\'an number is achieved uniquely by the complete
(r+1)-partite hypergraph with nearly equal part sizes. This is one of very few
infinite families of nondegenerate hypergraphs whose Tur\'an number is
determined exactly. In an attempt to generalize Thomassen's result that the
chromatic threshold of triangle-free graphs is 1/3, we prove bounds for the
chromatic threshold of the family of 3-uniform hypergraphs not containing {abc,
abd, cde}, the so-called generalized triangle.
  In order to prove upper bounds we introduce the concept of fiber bundles,
which can be thought of as a hypergraph analogue of directed graphs. This leads
to the notion of fiber bundle dimension, a structural property of fiber bundles
that is based on the idea of Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension in hypergraphs. Our
lower bounds follow from explicit constructions, many of which use a hypergraph
analogue of the Kneser graph. Using methods from extremal set theory, we prove
that these Kneser hypergraphs have unbounded chromatic number. This generalizes
a result of Szemer\'edi for graphs and might be of independent interest. Many
open problems remain.