The Vapnik-\v{C}ervonenkis dimension is a complexity measure of set-systems,
or hypergraphs. Its application to graphs is usually done by considering the
sets of neighborhoods of the vertices (cf. Alon et al. (2006) and Chepoi,
Estellon, and Vaxes (2007)), hence providing a set-system. But the graph
structure is lost in the process. The aim of this paper is to introduce the
notion of paired VC-dimension, a generalization of VC-dimension to set-systems
endowed with a graph structure, hence a collection of pairs of subsets.
  The classical VC-theory is generally used in combinatorics to bound the
transversality of a hypergraph in terms of its fractional transversality and
its VC-dimension. Similarly, we bound the chromatic number in terms of
fractional transversality and paired VC-dimension. This approach turns out to
be very useful for a class of problems raised by Erd\H{o}s and Simonovits
(1973) asking for H-free graphs with minimum degree at least cn and arbitrarily
high chromatic number, where H is a fixed graph and c a positive constant.
  We show how the usual VC-dimension gives a short proof of the fact that
triangle-free graphs with minimum degree at least n/3 have bounded chromatic
number, where $n$ is the number of vertices. Using paired VC-dimension, we
prove that if the chromatic number of $H$-free graphs with minimum degree at
least cn is unbounded for some positive c, then it is unbounded for all c<1/3.
In other words, one can find H-free graphs with unbounded chromatic number and
minimum degree arbitrarily close to n/3. These H-free graphs are derived from a
construction of Hajnal. The large chromatic number follows from the Borsuk-Ulam
Theorem.