We use a sample of z~3 Lyman Break Galaxies (LBGs) to examine close pair
clustering statistics in comparison to LCDM-based models of structure
formation. Samples are selected by matching the LBG number density and by
matching the observed LBG 3-D correlation function of LBGs over the two-halo
term region. We show that UV-luminosity abundance matching cannot reproduce the
observed data, but if subhalos are chosen to reproduce the observed clustering
of LBGs we are able to reproduce the observed LBG pair fraction, (Nc), defined
as the average number of companions per galaxy. This model suggests an over
abundance of LBGs by a factor of ~5 over those observed, suggesting that only 1
in 5 halos above a fixed mass hosts a galaxy with LBG-like UV luminosity
detectable via LBG selection techniques. We find a total observable close pair
fraction of 23 \pm 0.6% (17.7 \pm 0.5%) using a prototypical cylinder radius in
our overdense fiducial model and 8.3 \pm 0.5% (5.6 \pm 0.2%) in an abundance
matched model (impurity corrected). For the matched spectroscopic slit
analysis, we find Ncs = 5.1\pm0.2% (1.68\pm0.02%), the average number of
companions observed serendipitously in our for fiducial slits (abundance
matched), whereas the observed fraction of serendipitous spectroscopic close
pairs is 4.7\pm1.5 per cent using the full LBG sample and 7.1\pm2.3% for a
subsample with higher signal-to-noise ratio. We show that the standard method
of halo assignment fails to reproduce the break in the LBG close pair behavior
at small scale. To reconcile these discrepancies we suggest that a plausible
fraction of LBGs in close pairs with lower mass than our sample experience
interaction-induced enhanced star formation that boosts their luminosity
sufficiently to be detected in observational sample but are not included in the
abundance matched simulation sample.