In this paper a deterministic preprocessing algorithm is presented, whose
output can be given as input to most state-of-the-art epipolar geometry
estimation algorithms, improving their results considerably. They are now able
to succeed on hard cases for which they failed before. The algorithm consists
of three steps, whose scope changes from local to global. In the local step it
extracts from a pair of images local features (e.g. SIFT). Similar features
from each image are clustered and the clusters are matched yielding a large
number of putative matches. In the second step pairs of spatially close
features (called 2keypoints) are matched and ranked by a classifier. The
2keypoint matches with the highest ranks are selected. In the global step, from
each two 2keypoint matches a fundamental matrix is computed. As quite a few of
the matrices are generated from correct matches they are used to rank the
putative matches found in the first step. For each match the number of
fundamental matrices, for which it approximately satisfies the epipolar
constraint, is calculated. This set of matches is combined with the putative
matches generated by standard methods and their probabilities to be correct are
estimated by a classifier. These are then given as input to state-of-the-art
epipolar geometry estimation algorithms such as BEEM, BLOGS and USAC yielding
much better results than the original algorithms. This was shown in extensive
testing performed on almost 900 image pairs from six publicly available
data-sets.