In this paper, we propose a theoretical framework to construct matching
algorithms for any biometric authentication systems. Conventional matching
algorithms are not necessarily secure against strong intentional impersonation
attacks such as wolf attacks. The wolf attack is an attempt to impersonate a
genuine user by presenting a "wolf" to a biometric authentication system
without the knowledge of a genuine user's biometric sample. A wolf is a sample
which can be accepted as a match with multiple templates. The wolf attack
probability (WAP) is the maximum success probability of the wolf attack, which
was proposed by Une, Otsuka, Imai as a measure for evaluating security of
biometric authentication systems. We present a principle for construction of
secure matching algorithms against the wolf attack for any biometric
authentication systems. The ideal matching algorithm determines a threshold for
each input value depending on the entropy of the probability distribution of
the (Hamming) distances. Then we show that if the information about the
probability distribution for each input value is perfectly given, then our
matching algorithm is secure against the wolf attack. Our generalized matching
algorithm gives a theoretical framework to construct secure matching
algorithms. How lower WAP is achievable depends on how accurately the entropy
is estimated. Then there is a trade-off between the efficiency and the
achievable WAP. Almost every conventional matching algorithm employs a fixed
threshold and hence it can be regarded as an efficient but insecure instance of
our theoretical framework. Daugman's IrisCode recognition algorithm proposed
can also be regarded as a non-optimal instance of our framework.