The concept of double nonnegativity of matrices is generalized to doubly
nonnegative tensors by means of the nonnegativity of all entries and
$H$-eigenvalues. This generalization is defined for tensors of any order (even
or odd), while it reduces to the class of nonnegative positive semidefinite
tensors in the even order case. We show that many nonnegative structured
tensors, which are positive semidefinite in the even order case, are indeed
doubly nonnegative as well in the odd order case. As an important subclass of
doubly nonnegative tensors, the completely positive tensors are further
studied. By using dominance properties for completely positive tensors, we can
easily exclude some doubly nonnegative tensors, such as the signless Laplacian
tensor of a nonempty $m$-uniform hypergraph with $m\geq 3$, from the class of
completely positive tensors. Properties of the doubly nonnegative tensor cone
and the completely positive tensor cone are established. Their relation and
difference are discussed. These show us a different phenomenon comparing to the
matrix case. By employing the proposed properties, more subclasses of these two
types of tensors are identified. Particularly, all positive Cauchy tensors with
any order are shown to be completely positive. This gives an easily
constructible subclass of completely positive tensors, which is significant for
the study of completely positive tensor decomposition. A preprocessed Fan-Zhou
algorithm is proposed which can efficiently verify the complete positivity of
nonnegative symmetric tensors. We also give the solution analysis of tensor
complementarity problems with the strongly doubly nonnegative tensor structure.