Today's High-Speed Machining (HSM) machine tool combines productivity and
part quality. The difficulty inherent in HSM operations lies in understanding
the impact of machine tool behaviour on machining time and part quality.
Analysis of some of the relevant ISO standards (230-1998, 10791-1998) and a
complementary protocol for better understanding HSM technology are presented in
the first part of this paper. These ISO standards are devoted to the procedures
implemented in order to study the behavior of machine tool. As these procedures
do not integrate HSM technology, the need for HSM machine tool tests becomes
critical to improving the trade-off between machining time and part quality. A
new protocol for analysing the HSM technology impact during circular
interpolation is presented in the second part of the paper. This protocol which
allows evaluating kinematic machine tool behaviour during circular
interpolation was designed from tests without machining. These tests are
discussed and their results analysed in the paper. During the circular
interpolation, axis capacities (such as acceleration or Jerk) related to
certain setting parameters of the numerical control unit have a significant
impact on the value of the feed rate. Consequently, a kinematic model for a
circular-interpolated trajectory was developed on the basis of these
parameters. Moreover, the link between part accuracy and kinematic machine tool
behaviour was established. The kinematic model was ultimately validated on a
bore machining simulation.