Relay networks having $n$ source-to-destination pairs and $m$ half-duplex
relays, all operating in the same frequency band in the presence of block
fading, are analyzed. This setup has attracted significant attention and
several relaying protocols have been reported in the literature. However, most
of the proposed solutions require either centrally coordinated scheduling or
detailed channel state information (CSI) at the transmitter side. Here, an
opportunistic relaying scheme is proposed, which alleviates these limitations.
The scheme entails a two-hop communication protocol, in which sources
communicate with destinations only through half-duplex relays. The key idea is
to schedule at each hop only a subset of nodes that can benefit from
\emph{multiuser diversity}. To select the source and destination nodes for each
hop, it requires only CSI at receivers (relays for the first hop, and
destination nodes for the second hop) and an integer-value CSI feedback to the
transmitters. For the case when $n$ is large and $m$ is fixed, it is shown that
the proposed scheme achieves a system throughput of $m/2$ bits/s/Hz. In
contrast, the information-theoretic upper bound of $(m/2)\log \log n$ bits/s/Hz
is achievable only with more demanding CSI assumptions and cooperation between
the relays. Furthermore, it is shown that, under the condition that the product
of block duration and system bandwidth scales faster than $\log n$, the
achievable throughput of the proposed scheme scales as $\Theta ({\log n})$.
Notably, this is proven to be the optimal throughput scaling even if
centralized scheduling is allowed, thus proving the optimality of the proposed
scheme in the scaling law sense.