Cloud Computing has emerged as a key technology to deliver and manage
computing, platform, and software services over the Internet. Task scheduling
algorithms play an important role in the efficiency of cloud computing services
as they aim to reduce the turnaround time of tasks and improve resource
utilization. Several task scheduling algorithms have been proposed in the
literature for cloud computing systems, the majority relying on the
computational complexity of tasks and the distribution of resources. However,
several tasks scheduled following these algorithms still fail because of
unforeseen changes in the cloud environments. In this paper, using tasks
execution and resource utilization data extracted from the execution traces of
real world applications at Google, we explore the possibility of predicting the
scheduling outcome of a task using statistical models. If we can successfully
predict tasks failures, we may be able to reduce the execution time of jobs by
rescheduling failed tasks earlier (i.e., before their actual failing time). Our
results show that statistical models can predict task failures with a precision
up to 97.4%, and a recall up to 96.2%. We simulate the potential benefits of
such predictions using the tool kit GloudSim and found that they can improve
the number of finished tasks by up to 40%. We also perform a case study using
the Hadoop framework of Amazon Elastic MapReduce (EMR) and the jobs of a gene
expression correlations analysis study from breast cancer research. We find
that when extending the scheduler of Hadoop with our predictive models, the
percentage of failed jobs can be reduced by up to 45%, with an overhead of less
than 5 minutes.