Integrating volatile renewable energy resources into the bulk power grid is
challenging, due to the reliability requirement that at each instant the load
and generation in the system remain balanced. In this study, we tackle this
challenge for smart grid with integrated wind generation, by leveraging
multi-timescale dispatch and scheduling. Specifically, we consider smart grids
with two classes of energy users - traditional energy users and opportunistic
energy users (e.g., smart meters or smart appliances), and investigate pricing
and dispatch at two timescales, via day-ahead scheduling and realtime
scheduling. In day-ahead scheduling, with the statistical information on wind
generation and energy demands, we characterize the optimal procurement of the
energy supply and the day-ahead retail price for the traditional energy users;
in realtime scheduling, with the realization of wind generation and the load of
traditional energy users, we optimize real-time prices to manage the
opportunistic energy users so as to achieve systemwide reliability. More
specifically, when the opportunistic users are non-persistent, i.e., a subset
of them leave the power market when the real-time price is not acceptable, we
obtain closedform solutions to the two-level scheduling problem. For the
persistent case, we treat the scheduling problem as a multitimescale Markov
decision process. We show that it can be recast, explicitly, as a classic
Markov decision process with continuous state and action spaces, the solution
to which can be found via standard techniques. We conclude that the proposed
multi-scale dispatch and scheduling with real-time pricing can effectively
address the volatility and uncertainty of wind generation and energy demand,
and has the potential to improve the penetration of renewable energy into smart
grids.