Conventional extreme learning machines solve a Moore-Penrose generalized
inverse of hidden layer activated matrix and analytically determine the output
weights to achieve generalized performance, by assuming the same loss from
different types of misclassification. The assumption may not hold in
cost-sensitive recognition tasks, such as face recognition based access control
system, where misclassifying a stranger as a family member and allowed to enter
the house may result in more serious disaster than misclassifying a family
member as a stranger and not allowed to enter. Though recent cost-sensitive
learning can reduce the total loss with a given cost matrix that quantifies how
severe one type of mistake against another type of mistake, in many realistic
cases the cost matrix is unknown to users. Motivated by these concerns, this
paper proposes an evolutionary cost-sensitive extreme learning machine
(ECSELM), with the following merits: 1) to our best knowledge, it is the first
proposal of cost-sensitive ELM; 2) it well addresses the open issue of how to
define the cost matrix in cost-sensitive learning tasks; 3) an evolutionary
backtracking search algorithm is induced for adaptive cost matrix optimization.
Extensively, an ECSLDA method is generalized by coupling with cost-sensitive
subspace learning. Experiments in a variety of cost-sensitive tasks well
demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approaches,
specifically, 5%~10% improvements in classification are obtained on several
datasets compared with ELMs; the computational efficiency is also 10 times
faster than cost-sensitive subspace learning methods.