The quest for robust heuristics that are able to solve more than one problem
is ongoing. In this paper, we present, discuss and analyse a technique called
Evolutionary Squeaky Wheel Optimisation and apply it to two different personnel
scheduling problems. Evolutionary Squeaky Wheel Optimisation improves the
original Squeaky Wheel Optimisation's effectiveness and execution speed by
incorporating two extra steps (Selection and Mutation) for added evolution. In
the Evolutionary Squeaky Wheel Optimisation, a cycle of
Analysis-Selection-Mutation-Prioritization-Construction continues until
stopping conditions are reached. The aim of the Analysis step is to identify
below average solution components by calculating a fitness value for all
components. The Selection step then chooses amongst these underperformers and
discards some probabilistically based on fitness. The Mutation step further
discards a few components at random. Solutions can become incomplete and thus
repairs may be required. The repairs are carried out by using the
Prioritization to first produce priorities that determine an order by which the
following Construction step then schedules the remaining components. Therefore,
improvement in the Evolutionary Squeaky Wheel Optimisation is achieved by
selective solution disruption mixed with interative improvement and
constructive repair. Strong experimental results are reported on two different
domains of personnel scheduling: bus and rail driver scheduling and hospital
nurse scheduling.