STEP-NC (ISO 14649) is becoming a promising standard to replace or supplement
the conventional G-code programs based on ISO 6983 due to its feature based
machine independent characteristics and its centric role to enable efficient
CAD/CAM/CNC interoperability. The re-use of G-code programs is important for
both manufacturing and capitalization of machining knowledge, nevertheless the
conversion is a tedious task when carried out manually and machining knowledge
is almost hidden in the low level G-code. Mapping G-code into STEP-NC should
benefit from more expressiveness of the manufacturing feature-based
characteristics of this new standard. The work presented here proposes an
overall method for G-code to STEP-NC conversion. First, G-code is converted
into canonical machining functions, this can make the method more applicable
and make subsequent processes easier to implement; then these functions are
parsed to generate the neutral format of STEP-NC Part21 toolpath file, this
turns G-code into object instances, and can facilitate company's usage of
legacy programs; and finally, also optionally, machining features are extracted
to generate Part21 CC2 (conformance class) file. The proposed extraction method
employs geometric information of cutting area inferred from toolpaths and
machining strategies, in addition to cutting tools' data and workpiece's
dimension data. This comprehensive use of available data makes the extraction
more accurate and reliable. The conversion method is holistic, and can be
extended to process a wide range of G-code programs (e.g. turning or mill-turn
codes) with as few user interventions as possible.