This paper introduces RankMap, a platform-aware end-to-end framework for
efficient execution of a broad class of iterative learning algorithms for
massive and dense datasets. In contrast to the existing dense (iterative) data
analysis methods that are oblivious to the platform, for the first time, we
introduce novel scalable data transformation and mapping algorithms that enable
optimizing for the underlying computing platforms' cost/constraints. The cost
is defined by the number of arithmetic and (within-platform) message passing
operations incurred by the variable updates in each iteration, while the
constraints are set by the available memory resources. RankMap's transformation
scalably factorizes data into an ensemble of lower dimensional subspaces, while
its mapping schedules the flow of iterative computation on the transformed data
onto the pertinent computing machine. We show a trade-off between the desired
level of accuracy for the learning algorithm and the achieved efficiency.
RankMap provides two APIs, one matrix-based and one graph-based, which
facilitate automated adoption of the framework for performing several
contemporary iterative learning applications optimized to the platform. To
demonstrate the utility of RankMap, we solve sparse recovery and power
iteration problems on various real-world datasets with up to 1.8 billion
non-zeros. Our evaluations are performed on Amazon EC2 and IBM iDataPlex
platforms using up to 244 cores. The results demonstrate up to 2 orders of
magnitude improvements in memory usage, execution speed, and bandwidth compared
with the best reported prior work.