Most discovery systems for silent failures work in two phases: a continuous
monitoring phase that detects presence of failures through probe packets and a
localization phase that pinpoints the faulty element(s). This separation is
important because localization requires significantly more resources than
detection and should be initiated only when a fault is present.
  We focus on improving the efficiency of the detection phase, where the goal
is to balance the overhead with the cost associated with longer failure
detection times. We formulate a general model which unifies the treatment of
probe scheduling mechanisms, stochastic or deterministic, and different cost
objectives - minimizing average detection time (SUM) or worst-case detection
time (MAX).
  We then focus on two classes of schedules. {\em Memoryless schedules} -- a
subclass of stochastic schedules which is simple and suitable for distributed
deployment. We show that the optimal memorlyess schedulers can be efficiently
computed by convex programs (for SUM objectives) or linear programs (for MAX
objectives), and surprisingly perhaps, are guaranteed to have expected
detection times that are not too far off the (NP hard) stochastic optima. {\em
Deterministic schedules} allow us to bound the maximum (rather than expected)
cost of undetected faults, but like stochastic schedules, are NP hard to
optimize. We develop novel efficient deterministic schedulers with provable
approximation ratios.
  An extensive simulation study on real networks, demonstrates significant
performance gains of our memoryless and deterministic schedulers over previous
approaches. Our unified treatment also facilitates a clear comparison between
different objectives and scheduling mechanisms.