After more than sixty years, Shannon's research1-3 continues to raise
fundamental questions, such as the one formulated by Luce4,5, which is still
unanswered: "Why is information theory not very applicable to psychological
problems, despite apparent similarities of concepts?" On this topic, Pinker6,
one of the foremost defenders of the computational theory of mind6, has argued
that thought is simply a type of computation, and that the gap between human
cognition and computational models may be illusory. In this context, in his
latest book, titled Thinking Fast and Slow8, Kahneman7,8 provides further
theoretical interpretation by differentiating the two assumed systems of the
cognitive functioning of the human mind. He calls them intuition (system 1)
determined to be an associative (automatic, fast and perceptual) machine, and
reasoning (system 2) required to be voluntary and to operate logical-
deductively. In this paper, we propose an ansatz inspired by Ausubel's learning
theory for investigating, from the constructivist perspective9-12, information
processing in the working memory of cognizers. Specifically, a thought
experiment is performed utilizing the mind of a dual-natured creature known as
Maxwell's demon: a tiny "man-machine" solely equipped with the characteristics
of system 1, which prevents it from reasoning. The calculation presented here
shows that [...]. This result indicates that when the system 2 is shut down,
both an intelligent being, as well as a binary machine, incur the same energy
cost per unit of information processed, which mathematically proves the
computational attribute of the system 1, as Kahneman7,8 theorized. This finding
links information theory to human psychological features and opens a new path
toward the conception of a multi-bit reasoning machine.