To achieve better performances in term of productivity, High Speed Machining
centers have increasing kinematical characteristics. High accelerations caused
by the trajectory execution dynamically load mechanical structure, axes and
joints. Such deformations of mechanical components a ect the actual position of
the tool in the machining frame. Hence, these gemetrical deviations make the
machined geometry of the part vary from the expected one. Within the context of
managing the HSM process, this study develops a framework and choice of nite
element model to evaluate the structure dynamical behavior of a HSM center.
Based on the proposed model, a calculation method is detailed to evaluate the
geometrical deviations induced by the trajectory execution. The presented works
can thus be used as a tool for the structure design of machine, the adjustment
and the optimization of kinematical parameters for machining.
  ---
  Pour atteindre des performances accrues en terme de productivit\'e, les
centres d'Usinage Grande Vitesse poss\`edent des caract\'eristiques
cin\'ematiques \'elev\'ees. Les fortes acc\'el\'erations mises en jeu lors de
l'ex\'ecution des trajectoires sollicitent dynamiquement la structure et les
liaisons. Les d\'eformations engendr\'ees peuvent alors se r\'epercuter sur la
position effective de l'outil par rapport \`a la pi\`ece cr\'eant des \'ecarts
g\'eom\'etriques par rapport \`a la g\'eom\'etrie attendue. Dans un contexte de
ma\^itrise du processus de r\'ealisation de pi\`eces en UGV, les travaux
d\'evelopp\'es pr\'esentent une d\'emarche et un choix de mod\'elisation
\'el\'ements finis pour \'evaluer le comportement dynamique d'une structure de
centre UGV. Bas\'e sur ce mod\`ele, une m\'ethodologie de calcul est propos\'ee
pour \'evaluer les \'ecarts g\'eom\'etriques g\'en\'er\'es lors de
l'ex\'ecution de trajectoires types. Ces travaux constituent ainsi une voie
pour le dimensionnement de structure, le r\'eglage et l'optimisation des
param\`etres cin\'ematiques pour l'usinage.