Cellular networks are one of the corner stones of our information-driven
society. However, existing cellular systems have been seriously challenged by
the explosion of mobile data traffic, the emergence of machine-type
communications and the flourish of mobile Internet services. In this article,
we propose CONCERT (CONvergence of Cloud and cEllulaR sysTems), a converged
edge infrastructure for future cellular communications and mobile computing
services. The proposed architecture is constructed based on the concept of
control/data (C/D) plane decoupling. The data plane includes heterogeneous
physical resources such as radio interfacing equipment, computational
resources, and software-defined switches. The control plane jointly coordinates
physical resources to present them as virtual resources, over which
software-defined services including communications, computing, and management
can be deployed in a flexible manner. Moreover, we introduce new designs for
physical resources placement and task scheduling, so that CONCERT can overcome
the drawbacks of the existing baseband-up centralization approach and better
facilitate innovations in next-generation cellular networks. These advantages
are demonstrated with application examples on the radio access networks (RANs)
with C/D decoupled air interface, delay sensitive machine-type communications,
and real-time mobile cloud gaming. We also discuss some fundamental research
issues arising with the proposed architecture to illuminate future research
directions.