This paper introduces a set of acoustic modeling techniques for utterance
verification (UV) based continuous speech recognition (CSR). Utterance
verification in this work implies the ability to determine when portions of a
hypothesized word string correspond to incorrectly decoded vocabulary words or
out-of-vocabulary words that may appear in an utterance. This capability is
implemented here as a likelihood ratio (LR). There are two UV techniques that
are presented here. The first is voice verification along with the vocabulary
testing, at the same time the parameters for UV models are generated based on
the optimization criterion which is directly related to the LR measure. The
second technique is a pitch recognition based on weighted finite-state
transducers. These transducers provide a common and natural representation for
major components of speech recognition systems, including hidden Markov models
(HMMs), context-dependency models, pronunciation dictionaries, statistical
grammars, and word or phone lattices. The finite state machine processes the
acoustic parameters of UV models. The results of an experimental study
presented in the paper shows that LR based parameter estimation results in a
significant improvement in UV performance for this task. The study also found
that the use of the LR based weighted finite-state transducers along with the
UV, can provide as much as an 11% improvement in UV performance when compared
to existing UV procedures. Finally, it was also found that the performance of
the finite state machine was highly dependent on the use of the LR criterion in
training acoustic models. Several observations are made in the paper concerning
the formation of confidence measures for UV and the interaction of these
techniques with statistical language models.