Frequency and phase of neural activity play important roles in the behaving
brain. The emerging understanding of these roles has been informed by the
design of analog devices that have been important to neuroscience, among them
the neuroanalog computer developed by O. Schmitt in the 1930's. In the 1950's,
J. von Neumann, in a search for high performance computing using microwaves,
invented a logic machine based on similar devices, that can perform logic
functions including binary arithmetic. Described here is a novel embodiment of
his machine using nano-magnetics. The embodiment is based on properties of
ferromagnetic thin films that are governed by a nonlinear Schrodinger equation
for magnetization in a film. Electrical currents through point contacts on a
film create spin torque nano oscillators (STNO) that define the oscillator
elements of the system. These oscillators may communicate through directed
graphs of electrical connections or by radiation in the form of spin waves. It
is shown here how to construct a logic machine using STNO, that this machine
can perform several computations simultaneously using multiplexing of inputs,
that this system can evaluate iterated logic functions, and that spin waves can
communicate frequency, phase and binary information. Neural tissue and the
Schmitt, von Neumann and STNO devices share a common bifurcation structure,
although these systems operate on vastly different space and time scales. This
suggests that neural circuits may be capable of computational functionality
described here.