Microbial identification is a central issue in microbiology, in particular in
the fields of infectious diseases diagnosis and industrial quality control. The
concept of species is tightly linked to the concept of biological and clinical
classification where the proximity between species is generally measured in
terms of evolutionary distances and/or clinical phenotypes. Surprisingly, the
information provided by this well-known hierarchical structure is rarely used
by machine learning-based automatic microbial identification systems.
Structured machine learning methods were recently proposed for taking into
account the structure embedded in a hierarchy and using it as additional a
priori information, and could therefore allow to improve microbial
identification systems. We test and compare several state-of-the-art machine
learning methods for microbial identification on a new Matrix-Assisted Laser
Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) dataset.
We include in the benchmark standard and structured methods, that leverage the
knowledge of the underlying hierarchical structure in the learning process. Our
results show that although some methods perform better than others, structured
methods do not consistently perform better than their "flat" counterparts. We
postulate that this is partly due to the fact that standard methods already
reach a high level of accuracy in this context, and that they mainly confuse
species close to each other in the tree, a case where using the known hierarchy
is not helpful.