We study coordination mechanisms for Scheduling Games (with unrelated
machines). In these games, each job represents a player, who needs to choose a
machine for its execution, and intends to complete earliest possible. Our goal
is to design scheduling policies that always admit a pure Nash equilibrium and
guarantee a small price of anarchy for the l_k-norm social cost --- the
objective balances overall quality of service and fairness. We consider
policies with different amount of knowledge about jobs: non-clairvoyant,
strongly-local and local. The analysis relies on the smooth argument together
with adequate inequalities, called smooth inequalities. With this unified
framework, we are able to prove the following results.
  First, we study the inefficiency in l_k-norm social costs of a strongly-local
policy SPT and a non-clairvoyant policy EQUI. We show that the price of anarchy
of policy SPT is O(k). We also prove a lower bound of Omega(k/log k) for all
deterministic, non-preemptive, strongly-local and non-waiting policies
(non-waiting policies produce schedules without idle times). These results
ensure that SPT is close to optimal with respect to the class of l_k-norm
social costs. Moreover, we prove that the non-clairvoyant policy EQUI has price
of anarchy O(2^k).
  Second, we consider the makespan (l_infty-norm) social cost by making
connection within the l_k-norm functions. We revisit some local policies and
provide simpler, unified proofs from the framework's point of view. With the
highlight of the approach, we derive a local policy Balance. This policy
guarantees a price of anarchy of O(log m), which makes it the currently best
known policy among the anonymous local policies that always admit a pure Nash
equilibrium.