Interference mitigation techniques are essential for improving the
performance of interference limited wireless networks. In this paper, we
introduce novel interference mitigation schemes for wireless cellular networks
with space division multiple access (SDMA). The schemes are based on a virtual
layer that captures and simplifies the complicated interference situation in
the network and that is used for power control. We show how optimization in
this virtual layer generates gradually adapting power control settings that
lead to autonomous interference minimization. Thereby, the granularity of
control ranges from controlling frequency sub-band power via controlling the
power on a per-beam basis, to a granularity of only enforcing average power
constraints per beam. In conjunction with suitable short-term scheduling, our
algorithms gradually steer the network towards a higher utility. We use
extensive system-level simulations to compare three distributed algorithms and
evaluate their applicability for different user mobility assumptions. In
particular, it turns out that larger gains can be achieved by imposing average
power constraints and allowing opportunistic scheduling instantaneously, rather
than controlling the power in a strict way. Furthermore, we introduce a
centralized algorithm, which directly solves the underlying optimization and
shows fast convergence, as a performance benchmark for the distributed
solutions. Moreover, we investigate the deviation from global optimality by
comparing to a branch-and-bound-based solution.