Complex biological systems have been successfully modeled by biochemical and
genetic interaction networks, typically gathered from high-throughput (HTP)
data. These networks can be used to infer functional relationships between
genes or proteins. Using the intuition that the topological role of a gene in a
network relates to its biological function, local or diffusion based
"guilt-by-association" and graph-theoretic methods have had success in
inferring gene functions. Here we seek to improve function prediction by
integrating diffusion-based methods with a novel dimensionality reduction
technique to overcome the incomplete and noisy nature of network data. In this
paper, we introduce diffusion component analysis (DCA), a framework that plugs
in a diffusion model and learns a low-dimensional vector representation of each
node to encode the topological properties of a network. As a proof of concept,
we demonstrate DCA's substantial improvement over state-of-the-art
diffusion-based approaches in predicting protein function from molecular
interaction networks. Moreover, our DCA framework can integrate multiple
networks from heterogeneous sources, consisting of genomic information,
biochemical experiments and other resources, to even further improve function
prediction. Yet another layer of performance gain is achieved by integrating
the DCA framework with support vector machines that take our node vector
representations as features. Overall, our DCA framework provides a novel
representation of nodes in a network that can be used as a plug-in architecture
to other machine learning algorithms to decipher topological properties of and
obtain novel insights into interactomes.