In this paper, we consider a cognitive radio network that consists of one
cognitive base station (CBS) and multiple cognitive users (CUs) in the presence
of multiple eavesdroppers, where CUs transmit their data packets to CBS under a
primary user's quality of service (QoS) constraint while the eavesdroppers
attempt to intercept the cognitive transmissions from CUs to CBS. We
investigate the physical-layer security against eavesdropping attacks in the
cognitive radio network and propose the user scheduling scheme to achieve
multiuser diversity for improving the security level of cognitive transmissions
with a primary QoS constraint. Specifically, a cognitive user (CU) that
satisfies the primary QoS requirement and maximizes the achievable secrecy rate
of cognitive transmissions is scheduled to transmit its data packet. For the
comparison purpose, we also examine the traditional multiuser scheduling and
the artificial noise schemes. We analyze the achievable secrecy rate and
intercept probability of the traditional and proposed multiuser scheduling
schemes as well as the artificial noise scheme in Rayleigh fading environments.
Numerical results show that given a primary QoS constraint, the proposed
multiuser scheduling scheme generally outperforms the traditional multiuser
scheduling and the artificial noise schemes in terms of the achievable secrecy
rate and intercept probability. In addition, we derive the diversity order of
the proposed multiuser scheduling scheme through an asymptotic intercept
probability analysis and prove that the full diversity is obtained by using the
proposed multiuser scheduling.