This report summarizes two general frameworks, namely k2Q and k2U, that have
been recently developed by us. The purpose of this report is to provide
detailed evaluations and comparisons of these two frameworks. These two
frameworks share some similar characteristics, but they are useful for
different application cases. These two frameworks together provide
comprehensive means for the users to automatically convert the pseudo
polynomial-time tests (or even exponential-time tests) into polynomial-time
tests with closed mathematical forms. With the quadratic and hyperbolic forms,
k2Q and k2U frameworks can be used to provide many quantitive features to be
measured and evaluated, like the total utilization bounds, speed-up factors,
etc., not only for uniprocessor scheduling but also for multiprocessor
scheduling. These frameworks can be viewed as "blackbox" interfaces for
providing polynomial-time schedulability tests and response time analysis for
real-time applications. We have already presented their advantages for being
applied in some models in the previous papers. However, it was not possible to
present a more comprehensive comparison between these two frameworks. We hope
this report can help the readers and users clearly understand the difference of
these two frameworks, their unique characteristics, and their advantages. We
demonstrate their differences and properties by using the traditional sporadic
realtime task models in uniprocessor scheduling and multiprocessor global
scheduling.