In this paper we present the development of Acceleratable UVCs from standard
UVCs in SystemVerilog and their usage in UVM based Verification Environment of
Image Signal Processing designs to increase run time performance. This paper
covers development of Acceleratable UVCs from standard UVCs for internal
control and data buses of ST imaging group by partitioning of transaction-level
components and cycle-accurate signal-level components between the software
simulator and hardware accelerator respectively. Standard Co-Emulation API:
Modeling Interface (SCE-MI) compliant, transaction-level communications link
between test benches running on a host system and Emulation machine is
established. Accelerated Verification IPs are used at UVM based Verification
Environment of Image Signal Processing designs both with simulator and emulator
as UVM acceleration is an extension of the standard simulation-only UVM and is
fully backward compatible with it. Acceleratable UVCs significantly reduces
development schedule risks while leveraging transaction models used during
simulation.
  In this paper, we discuss our experiences on UVM based methodology adoption
on TestBench-Xpress(TBX) based technology step by step. We are also doing
comparison between the run time performance results from earlier simulator-only
environment and the new, hardware-accelerated environment. Although this paper
focuses on Acceleratable UVCs development and their usage for image signal
processing designs, Same concept can be extended for non-image signal
processing designs.
  KEYWORDS- SystemVerilog, Universal Verification Methodology (UVM),
TestBench-Xpress (TBX), Universal Verification Component (UVC), Standard
Co-Emulation API: Modelling Interface (SCE-MI), Acceleratable UVC, Emulator,
XRTL Tasks/Functions (xtf), Transactor interface (tif), Verification IP (VIP).