Big data comes in various ways, types, shapes, forms and sizes. Indeed,
almost all areas of science, technology, medicine, public health, economics,
business, linguistics and social science are bombarded by ever increasing flows
of data begging to analyzed efficiently and effectively. In this paper, we
propose a rough idea of a possible taxonomy of big data, along with some of the
most commonly used tools for handling each particular category of bigness. The
dimensionality p of the input space and the sample size n are usually the main
ingredients in the characterization of data bigness. The specific statistical
machine learning technique used to handle a particular big data set will depend
on which category it falls in within the bigness taxonomy. Large p small n data
sets for instance require a different set of tools from the large n small p
variety. Among other tools, we discuss Preprocessing, Standardization,
Imputation, Projection, Regularization, Penalization, Compression, Reduction,
Selection, Kernelization, Hybridization, Parallelization, Aggregation,
Randomization, Replication, Sequentialization. Indeed, it is important to
emphasize right away that the so-called no free lunch theorem applies here, in
the sense that there is no universally superior method that outperforms all
other methods on all categories of bigness. It is also important to stress the
fact that simplicity in the sense of Ockham's razor non plurality principle of
parsimony tends to reign supreme when it comes to massive data. We conclude
with a comparison of the predictive performance of some of the most commonly
used methods on a few data sets.