With the recent measurement of reactor mixing angle $\theta_{13}$ the
knowledge of neutrino oscillation parameters that describe PMNS matrix has
improved significantly except the CP violating phase $\delta_{CP}$. The other
unknown parameters in neutrino oscillation studies are mass hierarchy and the
octant of the atmospheric mixing angle $\theta_{23}$. Many dedicated
experiments are proposed to determine these parameters which may take at least
10 years from now to become operational. It is therefore very crucial to use
the results from the existing experiments to see whether we can get even
partial answer to these questions. In this paper we study the discovery
potential of the ongoing NO$\nu$A and T2K experiments and as well as the
forthcoming T2HK experiment in addressing these questions. In particular, we
evaluate the sensitivity of NO$\nu$A to determine neutrino mass hierarchy,
octant degeneracy and to obtain CP violation phase after running for its
scheduled period of 3 years in neutrino mode and 3 years in anti-neutrino mode.
We then extend the analysis to understand the discovery potential if the
experiment will run for (5$\nu$+5$\bar{\nu}$) years and (7$\nu$+3$\bar{\nu}$)
years. We also show how the sensitivity improves when we combine the data from
(3$\nu$+3$\bar{\nu}$) years of NO$\nu$A run with (3$\nu$+2$\bar{\nu}$) years of
T2K and (3$\nu$+7$\bar{\nu}$) years of T2HK experiments. We also study the
quantitative connection between uncertainties in the $\nu N$ and $\bar{\nu} N$
cross-sections and the resulting induced error in the sensitivities of
NO$\nu$A, T2K and T2HK experiments for their scheduled runs.