We present a new online algorithm for profit-oriented scheduling on multiple
speed-scalable processors. Moreover, we provide a tight analysis of the
algorithm's competitiveness. Our results generalize and improve upon work by
\textcite{Chan:2010}, which considers a single speed-scalable processor. Using
significantly different techniques, we can not only extend their model to
multiprocessors but also prove an enhanced and tight competitive ratio for our
algorithm.
  In our scheduling problem, jobs arrive over time and are preemptable. They
have different workloads, values, and deadlines. The scheduler may decide not
to finish a job but instead to suffer a loss equaling the job's value. However,
to process a job's workload until its deadline the scheduler must invest a
certain amount of energy. The cost of a schedule is the sum of lost values and
invested energy. In order to finish a job the scheduler has to determine which
processors to use and set their speeds accordingly. A processor's energy
consumption is power $\Power{s}$ integrated over time, where
$\Power{s}=s^{\alpha}$ is the power consumption when running at speed $s$.
Since we consider the online variant of the problem, the scheduler has no
knowledge about future jobs. This problem was introduced by
\textcite{Chan:2010} for the case of a single processor. They presented an
online algorithm which is $\alpha^{\alpha}+2e\alpha$-competitive. We provide an
online algorithm for the case of multiple processors with an improved
competitive ratio of $\alpha^{\alpha}$.