The Chandra X-ray Observatory (CXO) was launched on July 23, 1999 and reached
its final orbit on August 7, 1999. The CXO is in a highly elliptical orbit,
approximately 140,000 km x 10,000 km, and has a period of approximately 63.5
hours (~ 2.65 days). It transits the Earth's Van Allen belts once per orbit
during which no science observations can be performed due to the high radiation
environment. The Chandra X-ray Observatory Center (CXC) currently uses the
National Space Science Data Center's ``near Earth'' AP-8/AE-8 radiation belt
model to predict the start and end times of passage through the radiation
belts. However, our scheduling software uses only a simple dipole model of the
Earth's magnetic field. The resulting B, L magnetic coordinates, do not always
give sufficiently accurate predictions of the start and end times of transit of
the Van Allen belts. We show this by comparing to the data from Chandra's
on-board radiation monitor, the EPHIN (Electron, Proton, Helium Instrument
particle detector) instrument. We present evidence that demonstrates this
mis-timing of the outer electron radiation belt as well as data that also
demonstrate the significant variablity of one radiation belt transit to the
next as experienced by the CXO. We also present an explanation for why the
dipole implementation of the AP-8/AE-8 model is not ideally suited for the CXO.
Lastly, we provide a brief discussion of our on-going efforts to identify a
model that accounts for radiation belt variability, geometry, and one that can
be used for observation scheduling purposes.