Computational Intelligence (CI) is a sub-branch of Artificial Intelligence
paradigm focusing on the study of adaptive mechanisms to enable or facilitate
intelligent behavior in complex and changing environments. There are several
paradigms of CI [like artificial neural networks, evolutionary computations,
swarm intelligence, artificial immune systems, fuzzy systems and many others],
each of these has its origins in biological systems [biological neural systems,
natural Darwinian evolution, social behavior, immune system, interactions of
organisms with their environment]. Most of those paradigms evolved into
separate machine learning (ML) techniques, where probabilistic methods are used
complementary with CI techniques in order to effectively combine elements of
learning, adaptation, evolution and Fuzzy logic to create heuristic algorithms
that are, in some sense, intelligent. The current trend is to develop consensus
techniques, since no single machine learning algorithms is superior to others
in all possible situations. In order to overcome this problem several
meta-approaches were proposed in ML focusing on the integration of results from
different methods into single prediction. We discuss here the Landau theory for
the nonlinear equation that can describe the adaptive integration of
information acquired from an ensemble of independent learning agents. The
influence of each individual agent on other learners is described similarly to
the social impact theory. The final decision outcome for the consensus system
is calculated using majority rule in the stationary limit, yet the minority
solutions can survive inside the majority population as the complex
intermittent clusters of opposite opinion.