In this paper, we consider an intrusion detection application for Wireless
Sensor Networks (WSNs). We study the problem of scheduling the sleep times of
the individual sensors to maximize the network lifetime while keeping the
tracking error to a minimum. We formulate this problem as a
partially-observable Markov decision process (POMDP) with continuous
state-action spaces, in a manner similar to (Fuemmeler and Veeravalli [2008]).
However, unlike their formulation, we consider infinite horizon discounted and
average cost objectives as performance criteria. For each criterion, we propose
a convergent on-policy Q-learning algorithm that operates on two timescales,
while employing function approximation to handle the curse of dimensionality
associated with the underlying POMDP. Our proposed algorithm incorporates a
policy gradient update using a one-simulation simultaneous perturbation
stochastic approximation (SPSA) estimate on the faster timescale, while the
Q-value parameter (arising from a linear function approximation for the
Q-values) is updated in an on-policy temporal difference (TD) algorithm-like
fashion on the slower timescale. The feature selection scheme employed in each
of our algorithms manages the energy and tracking components in a manner that
assists the search for the optimal sleep-scheduling policy. For the sake of
comparison, in both discounted and average settings, we also develop a function
approximation analogue of the Q-learning algorithm. This algorithm, unlike the
two-timescale variant, does not possess theoretical convergence guarantees.
Finally, we also adapt our algorithms to include a stochastic iterative
estimation scheme for the intruder's mobility model. Our simulation results on
a 2-dimensional network setting suggest that our algorithms result in better
tracking accuracy at the cost of only a few additional sensors, in comparison
to a recent prior work.