The ultimate fate of the universe, infinite expansion or a big crunch, can be
determined by measuring the redshifts, apparent brightnesses, and intrinsic
luminosities of very distant supernovae. Recent developments have provided
tools that make such a program practicable: (1) Studies of relatively nearby
Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) have shown that their intrinsic luminosities can be
accurately determined; (2) New research techniques have made it possible to
schedule the discovery and follow-up observations of distant supernovae,
producing well over 50 very distant (z = 0.3 -- 0.7) SNe Ia to date. These
distant supernovae provide a record of changes in the expansion rate over the
past several billion years. By making precise measurements of supernovae at
still greater distances, and thus extending this expansion history back far
enough in time, we can distinguish the slowing caused by the gravitational
attraction of the universe's mass density Omega_M from the effect of a possibly
inflationary pressure caused by a cosmological constant Lambda. We report here
the first such measurements, with our discovery of a Type Ia supernova (SN
1997ap) at z = 0.83. Measurements at the Keck II 10-m telescope make this the
most distant spectroscopically confirmed supernova. Over two months of
photometry of SN 1997ap with the Hubble Space Telescope and ground-based
telescopes, when combined with previous measurements of nearer SNe Ia, suggests
that we may live in a low mass-density universe. Further supernovae at
comparable distances are currently scheduled for ground and space-based
observations.