Adoption or rejection of ideas, products, and technologies in a society is
often governed by simultaneous propagation of positive and negative influences.
Consider a planner trying to introduce an idea in different parts of a society
at different times. How should the planner design a schedule considering this
fact that positive reaction to the idea in early areas has a positive impact on
probability of success in later areas, whereas a flopped reaction has exactly
the opposite impact? We generalize a well-known economic model which has been
recently used by Chierichetti, Kleinberg, and Panconesi (ACM EC'12). In this
model the reaction of each area is determined by its initial preference and the
reaction of early areas. We generalize previous works by studying the problem
when people in different areas have various behaviors.
  We first prove, independent of the planner's schedule, influences help
(resp., hurt) the planner to propagate her idea if it is an appealing (resp.,
unappealing) idea. We also study the problem of designing the optimal
non-adaptive spreading strategy. In the non-adaptive spreading strategy, the
schedule is fixed at the beginning and is never changed. Whereas, in adaptive
spreading strategy the planner decides about the next move based on the current
state of the cascade. We demonstrate that it is hard to propose a non-adaptive
spreading strategy in general. Nevertheless, we propose an algorithm to find
the best non-adaptive spreading strategy when probabilities of different
behaviors of people in various areas drawn i.i.d from an unknown distribution.
Then, we consider the influence propagation phenomenon when the underlying
influence network can be any arbitrary graph. We show it is $\#P$-complete to
compute the expected number of adopters for a given spreading strategy.