Fundamental theory on battery-powered cyber-physical systems (CPS) calls for
dynamic models that are able to describe and predict the status of processors
and batteries at any given time. We believe that the idealized system of single
processor powered by single battery (SPSB) can be viewed as a generic case for
the modeling effort. This paper introduces a dynamic model for multiple
aperiodic tasks on a SPSB system under a scheduling algorithm that resembles
the rate monotonic scheduling (RMS) within finite time windows. The model
contains two major modules. The first module is an online battery capacity
model based on the Rakhmatov-Vrudhula-Wallach (RVW) model. This module provides
predictions of remaining battery capacity based on the knowledge of the battery
discharging current. The second module is a dynamical scheduling model that can
predict the scheduled behavior of tasks within any finite time window, without
the need to store all past information about each task before the starting time
of the finite time window. The module provides a complete analytical
description of the relationship among tasks and it delineates all possible
modes of the processor utilization as square-wave functions of time. The two
modules i.e. the scheduling model and the battery model are integrated to
obtain a hybrid scheduling model that describes the dynamic behaviors of the
SPSB system. Our effort may have demonstrated that through dynamic modeling,
different components of CPS may be integrated under a unified theoretical
framework centered around hybrid systems theory.