In order to fully utilize "big data", it is often required to use "big
models". Such models tend to grow with the complexity and size of the training
data, and do not make strong parametric assumptions upfront on the nature of
the underlying statistical dependencies. Kernel methods fit this need well, as
they constitute a versatile and principled statistical methodology for solving
a wide range of non-parametric modelling problems. However, their high
computational costs (in storage and time) pose a significant barrier to their
widespread adoption in big data applications.
  We propose an algorithmic framework and high-performance implementation for
massive-scale training of kernel-based statistical models, based on combining
two key technical ingredients: (i) distributed general purpose convex
optimization, and (ii) the use of randomization to improve the scalability of
kernel methods. Our approach is based on a block-splitting variant of the
Alternating Directions Method of Multipliers, carefully reconfigured to handle
very large random feature matrices, while exploiting hybrid parallelism
typically found in modern clusters of multicore machines. Our implementation
supports a variety of statistical learning tasks by enabling several loss
functions, regularization schemes, kernels, and layers of randomized
approximations for both dense and sparse datasets, in a highly extensible
framework. We evaluate the ability of our framework to learn models on data
from applications, and provide a comparison against existing sequential and
parallel libraries.