We consider the problem of energy-efficient on-line scheduling for
slice-parallel video decoders on multicore systems. We assume that each of the
processors are Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scaling (DVFS) enabled such that they
can independently trade off performance for power, while taking the video
decoding workload into account. In the past, scheduling and DVFS policies in
multi-core systems have been formulated heuristically due to the inherent
complexity of the on-line multicore scheduling problem. The key contribution of
this report is that we rigorously formulate the problem as a Markov decision
process (MDP), which simultaneously takes into account the on-line scheduling
and per-core DVFS capabilities; the power consumption of the processor cores
and caches; and the loss tolerant and dynamic nature of the video decoder's
traffic. In particular, we model the video traffic using a Direct Acyclic Graph
(DAG) to capture the precedence constraints among frames in a Group of Pictures
(GOP) structure, while also accounting for the fact that frames have different
display/decoding deadlines and non-deterministic decoding complexities. The
objective of the MDP is to minimize long-term power consumption subject to a
minimum Quality of Service (QoS) constraint related to the decoder's
throughput. Although MDPs notoriously suffer from the curse of dimensionality,
we show that, with appropriate simplifications and approximations, the
complexity of the MDP can be mitigated. We implement a slice-parallel version
of H.264 on a multiprocessor ARM (MPARM) virtual platform simulator, which
provides cycle-accurate and bus signal-accurate simulation for different
processors. We use this platform to generate realistic video decoding traces
with which we evaluate the proposed on-line scheduling algorithm in Matlab.