We present a new mathematical model of colorectal cancer growth and its
response to monoclonal-antibody (mAb) therapy. Although promising, most mAb
drugs are still in trial phases, and the possible variations in the dosing
schedules of those currently approved for use have not yet been thoroughly
explored. To investigate the effectiveness of current mAb treatment schedules,
and to test hypothetical treatment strategies, we have created a system of
nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODE) to model colorectal cancer
growth and treatment. The model includes tumor cells, elements of the host's
immune response, and treatments. Model treatments include the chemotherapy
agent irinotecan and one of two monoclonal antibodies - cetuximab, which is
FDA-approved for colorectal cancer, and panitumumab, which is still being
evaluated in clinical trials. The model incorporates patient-specific
parameters to account for individual variations in immune system strength and
in medication efficacy against the tumor. We have simulated outcomes for groups
of virtual patients on treatment protocols for which clinical trial data are
available, using a range of biologically reasonable patient-specific parameter
values. Our results closely match clinical trial results for these protocols.
We also simulated experimental dosing schedules, and have found new schedules
which, in our simulations, reduce tumor size more effectively than current
treatment schedules. Additionally, we examined the system's equilibria and
sensitivity to parameter values. In the absence of treatment, tumor evolution
is most affected by the intrinsic tumor growth rate and carrying capacity. When
treatment is introduced, tumor growth is most affected by drug-specific PK/PD
parameters.