In this work we offer a significant improvement on the previous smallest
spiking neural P systems and solve the problem of finding the smallest possible
extended spiking neural P system. Paun and Paun gave a universal spiking neural
P system with 84 neurons and another that has extended rules with 49 neurons.
Subsequently, Zhang et al. reduced the number of neurons used to give
universality to 67 for spiking neural P systems and to 41 for the extended
model. Here we give a small universal spiking neural P system that has only 17
neurons and another that has extended rules with 5 neurons. All of the above
mentioned spiking neural P systems suffer from an exponential slow down when
simulating Turing machines. Using a more relaxed encoding technique we get a
universal spiking neural P system that has extended rules with only 4 neurons.
This latter spiking neural P system simulates 2-counter machines in linear time
and thus suffer from a double exponential time overhead when simulating Turing
machines. We show that extended spiking neural P systems with 3 neurons are
simulated by log-space bounded Turing machines, and so there exists no such
universal system with 3 neurons. It immediately follows that our 4-neuron
system is the smallest possible extended spiking neural P system that is
universal. Finally, we show that if we generalise the output technique we can
give a universal spiking neural P system with extended rules that has only 3
neurons. This system is also the smallest of its kind as a universal spiking
neural P system with extended rules and generalised output is not possible with
2 neurons.