Lossy channel systems (LCSs) are systems of finite state automata that
communicate via unreliable unbounded fifo channels. In order to circumvent the
undecidability of model checking for nondeterministic
  LCSs, probabilistic models have been introduced, where it can be decided
whether a linear-time property holds almost surely. However, such fully
probabilistic systems are not a faithful model of nondeterministic protocols.
  We study a hybrid model for LCSs where losses of messages are seen as faults
occurring with some given probability, and where the internal behavior of the
system remains nondeterministic. Thus the semantics is in terms of
infinite-state Markov decision processes. The purpose of this article is to
discuss the decidability of linear-time properties formalized by formulas of
linear temporal logic (LTL). Our focus is on the qualitative setting where one
asks, e.g., whether a LTL-formula holds almost surely or with zero probability
(in case the formula describes the bad behaviors). Surprisingly, it turns out
that -- in contrast to finite-state Markov decision processes -- the
satisfaction relation for LTL formulas depends on the chosen type of schedulers
that resolve the nondeterminism. While all variants of the qualitative LTL
model checking problem for the full class of history-dependent schedulers are
undecidable, the same questions for finite-memory scheduler can be solved
algorithmically. However, the restriction to reachability properties and
special kinds of recurrent reachability properties yields decidable
verification problems for the full class of schedulers, which -- for this
restricted class of properties -- are as powerful as finite-memory schedulers,
or even a subclass of them.