Conventional turbo codes (CTCs) usually employ a block-oriented interleaving
so that each block is separately encoded and decoded. As interleaving and
de-interleaving are performed within a block, the message-passing process
associated with an iterative decoder is limited to proceed within the
corresponding range. This paper presents a new turbo coding scheme that uses a
special interleaver structure and a multiple-round early termination test
involving both sign check and a CRC code. The new interleaver structure is
naturally suited for high speed parallel processing and the resulting coding
system offers new design options and tradeoffs that are not available to CTCs.
In particular, it becomes possible for the decoder to employ an efficient
inter-block collaborative decoding algorithm, passing the information obtained
from termination test proved blocks to other unproved blocks. It also becomes
important to have a proper decoding schedule. The combined effect is improved
performance and reduction in the average decoding delay (whence the required
computing power). A memory (storage) management mechanism is included as a
critical part of the decoder so as to provide additional design tradeoff
between performance and memory size. It is shown that the latter has a
modular-like effect in that additional memory units render enhanced performance
due not only to less forced early terminations but to possible increases of the
interleaving depth. Depending on the decoding schedule, the degree of
parallelism and other decoding resources available, the proposed scheme admits
a variety of decoder architectures that meet a large range of throughput and
performance demands.