In this paper we analyze the performance of single stream and multi-stream
spatial multiplexing (SM) systems employing opportunistic scheduling in the
presence of interference. In the proposed downlink framework, every active user
reports the post-processing signal-to-interference-plus-noise-power-ratio
(post-SINR) or the receiver specific mutual information (MI) to its own
transmitter using a feedback channel. The combination of scheduling and
multi-antenna receiver processing leads to substantial interference suppression
gain. Specifically, we show that opportunistic scheduling exploits spatial
interference alignment (SIA) property inherent to a multi-user system for
effective interference mitigation. We obtain bounds for the outage probability
and the sum outage capacity for single stream and multi stream SM employing
real or complex encoding for a symmetric interference channel model.
  The techniques considered in this paper are optimal in different operating
regimes. We show that the sum outage capacity can be maximized by reducing the
SM rate to a value less than the maximum allowed value. The optimum SM rate
depends on the number of interferers and the number of available active users.
In particular, we show that the generalized multi-user SM (MU SM) method
employing real-valued encoding provides a performance that is either
comparable, or significantly higher than that of MU SM employing complex
encoding. A combination of analysis and simulation is used to describe the
trade-off between the multiplexing rate and sum outage capacity for different
antenna configurations.