The smart power grid aims at harnessing information and communication
technologies to enhance reliability and enforce sensible use of energy. Its
realization is geared by the fundamental goal of effective management of demand
load. In this work, we envision a scenario with real-time communication between
the operator and consumers. The grid operator controller receives requests for
power demands from consumers, with different power requirement, duration, and a
deadline by which it is to be completed. The objective is to devise a power
demand task scheduling policy that minimizes the grid operational cost over a
time horizon. The operational cost is a convex function of instantaneous power
consumption and reflects the fact that each additional unit of power needed to
serve demands is more expensive as demand load increases.First, we study the
off-line demand scheduling problem, where parameters are fixed and known. Next,
we devise a stochastic model for the case when demands are generated
continually and scheduling decisions are taken online and focus on long-term
average cost. We present two instances of power consumption control based on
observing current consumption. First, the controller may choose to serve a new
demand request upon arrival or to postpone it to the end of its deadline.
Second, the additional option exists to activate one of the postponed demands
when an active demand terminates. For both instances, the optimal policies are
threshold based. We derive a lower performance bound over all policies, which
is asymptotically tight as deadlines increase. We propose the Controlled
Release threshold policy and prove it is asymptotically optimal. The policy
activates a new demand request if the current power consumption is less than a
threshold, otherwise it is queued. Queued demands are scheduled when their
deadline expires or when the consumption drops below the threshold.