Scheduling questions arise naturally in many different areas among which
operating system design, compiling,... In real life systems, the
characteristics of the jobs (such as release time and processing time) are
usually unknown and unpredictable beforehand. The system is typically unaware
of the remaining work in each job or of the ability of the job to take
advantage of more resources. Following these observations, we adopt the job
model by Edmonds et al (2000, 2003) in which the jobs go through a sequence of
different phases. Each phase consists of a certain quantity of work and a
speed-up function that models how it takes advantage of the number of
processors it receives. We consider the non-clairvoyant online setting where a
collection of jobs arrives at time 0. We consider the metrics setflowtime
introduced by Robert et al (2007). The goal is to minimize the sum of the
completion time of the sets, where a set is completed when all of its jobs are
done. If the input consists of a single set of jobs, this is simply the
makespan of the jobs; and if the input consists of a collection of singleton
sets, it is simply the flowtime of the jobs. We show that the non-clairvoyant
strategy EQUIoEQUI that evenly splits the available processors among the still
unserved sets and then evenly splits these processors among the still
uncompleted jobs of each unserved set, achieves a competitive ratio
(2+\sqrt3+o(1))\frac{ln n}{lnln n} for the setflowtime minimization and that
this is asymptotically optimal (up to a constant factor), where n is the size
of the largest set. For makespan minimization, we show that the non-clairvoyant
strategy EQUI achieves a competitive ratio of (1+o(1))\frac{ln n}{lnln n},
which is again asymptotically optimal.