Distributed memory machines equipped with CPUs and GPUs (hybrid computing
nodes) are hard to program because of the multiple layers of memory and
heterogeneous computing configurations. In this paper, we introduce a region
template abstraction for the efficient management of common data types used in
analysis of large datasets of high resolution images on clusters of hybrid
computing nodes. The region template provides a generic container template for
common data structures, such as points, arrays, regions, and object sets,
within a spatial and temporal bounding box. The region template abstraction
enables different data management strategies and data I/O implementations,
while providing a homogeneous, unified interface to the application for data
storage and retrieval. The execution of region templates applications is
coordinated by a runtime system that supports efficient execution in hybrid
machines. Region templates applications are represented as hierarchical
dataflow in which each computing stage may be represented as another dataflow
of finer-grain tasks. A number of optimizations for hybrid machines are
available in our runtime system, including performance-aware scheduling for
maximizing utilization of computing devices and techniques to reduce impact of
data transfers between CPUs and GPUs. An experimental evaluation on a
state-of-the-art hybrid cluster using a microscopy imaging study shows that
this abstraction adds negligible overhead (about 3%) and achieves good
scalability.