Memory ballooning is dynamic memory management technique for virtual machines
(VMs). Ballooning is a part of memory reclamation technique operations used by
a hypervisor to allow the physical host system to retrieve unused memory from
certain guest virtual machines (VMs) and share it with others. Memory
ballooning allows the total amount ofRAM required by guest VMs to exceed the
amount ofphysical RAM available on the host. Memory overcommitment enables a
higher consolidation ratio in a hypervisor. Using memory overcommitment, users
can consolidate VMs on a physical machine such that physical resources are
utilized in an optimal manner while delivering good performance. Hence memory
reclamation is an integral component ofmemory overcommitment. In this paper, we
address that the basic cause of memory that ballooning is memory overcommitment
from using memory-intensive virtual machines. We compared to others reclamation
technique and identify Cost Associate with Memory Ballooning in state of Memory
Overcommitment. The objective of this paper is to analyse memory ballooning
technique for dynamic memory management of VMs. For this analysis, VMware based
virtualization software e.g ESXi Server, vCenter Server, vSphere Client are
installed and configured on the Centre for Innovation and Technology (CIT) Lab,
DIU; for monitor and analyze VM performance for memory ballooning technique.
The performance ofmemory ballooning technique is evaluated with two different
test cases. The purpose is to help users understand, how this technique impact
the performance. Finally, we presents the throughput ofheavy workload with
different memory limits when using ballooning or swapping; and analyse VM
performance issue for this technique.