We propose a new theoretical model for passively mobile Wireless Sensor
Networks. We call it the PALOMA model, standing for PAssively mobile
LOgarithmic space MAchines. The main modification w.r.t. the Population
Protocol model is that agents now, instead of being automata, are Turing
Machines whose memory is logarithmic in the population size n. Note that the
new model is still easily implementable with current technology. We focus on
complete communication graphs. We define the complexity class PLM, consisting
of all symmetric predicates on input assignments that are stably computable by
the PALOMA model. We assume that the agents are initially identical.
Surprisingly, it turns out that the PALOMA model can assign unique consecutive
ids to the agents and inform them of the population size! This allows us to
give a direct simulation of a Deterministic Turing Machine of O(nlogn) space,
thus, establishing that any symmetric predicate in SPACE(nlogn) also belongs to
PLM. We next prove that the PALOMA model can simulate the Community Protocol
model, thus, improving the previous lower bound to all symmetric predicates in
NSPACE(nlogn). Going one step further, we generalize the simulation of the
deterministic TM to prove that the PALOMA model can simulate a Nondeterministic
TM of O(nlogn) space. Although providing the same lower bound, the important
remark here is that the bound is now obtained in a direct manner, in the sense
that it does not depend on the simulation of a TM by a Pointer Machine.
Finally, by showing that a Nondeterministic TM of O(nlogn) space decides any
language stably computable by the PALOMA model, we end up with an exact
characterization for PLM: it is precisely the class of all symmetric predicates
in NSPACE(nlogn).