Software project development process is requiring accurate software cost and
schedule estimation for achieve goal or success. A lot it referred to as the
"Intricate brainteaser" because of its conscience attribute which is impact by
complexity and uncertainty, Generally estimation is not as difficult or
puzzling as people think. In fact, generating accurate estimates is
straightforward-once you understand the intensity of uncertainty and module
which contribute itself process. In our everyday life, we enhance our
estimation based on past experience in which problem solve by which method and
in which condition and which opportune provide that method to produce better
result . So, Instead of unexplained treatises and inflexible modeling
techniques, this will guide highlights a proven set of procedures,
understandable formulas, and heuristics that individuals and complete team can
apply to their projects to help achieve estimation ability with choose
appropriate development approaches In the early stage of software life cycle
project manager are inefficient to estimate the effort, schedule, cost
estimation and its development approach .This in turn, confuses the manager to
bid effectively on software project and choose incorrect development approach.
That will directly effect on productivity cycle and increase level of
uncertainty. This becomes a strong cause of project failure. So to avoid such
problem if we know level and sources of uncertainty in model design, It will
directive the developer to design accurate software cost and schedule
estimation. which are require l for software project success. This paper
demonstrates need of uncertainty analysis module at the modeling process for
assist to recognize modular uncertainty system development process and the role
of uncertainty at different stages in the modeling