Objectives: Text categorization has been used in biomedical informatics for
identifying documents containing relevant topics of interest. We developed a
simple method that uses a chi-square-based scoring function to determine the
likelihood of MEDLINE citations containing genetic relevant topic. Methods: Our
procedure requires construction of a genetic and a nongenetic domain document
corpus. We used MeSH descriptors assigned to MEDLINE citations for this
categorization task. We compared frequencies of MeSH descriptors between two
corpora applying chi-square test. A MeSH descriptor was considered to be a
positive indicator if its relative observed frequency in the genetic domain
corpus was greater than its relative observed frequency in the nongenetic
domain corpus. The output of the proposed method is a list of scores for all
the citations, with the highest score given to those citations containing MeSH
descriptors typical for the genetic domain. Results: Validation was done on a
set of 734 manually annotated MEDLINE citations. It achieved predictive
accuracy of 0.87 with 0.69 recall and 0.64 precision. We evaluated the method
by comparing it to three machine learning algorithms (support vector machines,
decision trees, na\"ive Bayes). Although the differences were not statistically
significantly different, results showed that our chi-square scoring performs as
good as compared machine learning algorithms. Conclusions: We suggest that the
chi-square scoring is an effective solution to help categorize MEDLINE
citations. The algorithm is implemented in the BITOLA literature-based
discovery support system as a preprocessor for gene symbol disambiguation
process.