Recent evolutions on forging process induce more complex shape on forging
die. These evolutions, combined with High Speed Machining (HSM) process of
forging die lead to important increase in time for machining preparation. In
this context, an original approach for generating machining process based on
machining knowledge is proposed in this paper. The core of this approach is to
decompose a CAD model of complex forging die in geometric features.
Technological data and topological relations are aggregated to a geometric
feature in order to create machining features. Technological data, such as
material, surface roughness and form tolerance are defined during forging
process and dies design. These data are used to choose cutting tools and
machining strategies. Topological relations define relative positions between
the surfaces of the die CAD model. After machining features identification
cutting tools and machining strategies currently used in HSM of forging die,
are associated to them in order to generate machining sequences. A machining
process model is proposed to formalize the links between information imbedded
in the machining features and the parameters of cutting tools and machining
strategies. At last machining sequences are grouped and ordered to generate the
complete die machining process. In this paper the identification of geometrical
features is detailed. Geometrical features identification is based on machining
knowledge formalization which is translated in the generation of maps from STL
models. A map based on the contact area between cutting tools and die shape
gives basic geometrical features which are connected or not according to the
continuity maps. The proposed approach is illustrated by an application on an
industrial study case which was accomplished as part of collaboration.