The U.S. Virtual Astronomical Observatory (VAO) is a product-driven
organization that provides new scientific research capabilities to the
astronomical community. Software development for the VAO follows a lightweight
framework that guides development of science applications and infrastructure.
Challenges to be overcome include distributed development teams, part-time
efforts, and highly constrained schedules. We describe the process we followed
to conquer these challenges while developing Iris, the VAO application for
analysis of 1-D astronomical spectral energy distributions (SEDs). Iris was
successfully built and released in less than a year with a team distributed
across four institutions. The project followed existing International Virtual
Observatory Alliance inter-operability standards for spectral data and
contributed a SED library as a by-product of the project. We emphasize lessons
learned that will be folded into future development efforts. In our experience,
a well-defined process that provides guidelines to ensure the project is
cohesive and stays on track is key to success. Internal product deliveries with
a planned test and feedback loop are critical. Release candidates are measured
against use cases established early in the process, and provide the opportunity
to assess priorities and make course corrections during development. Also key
is the participation of a stakeholder such as a lead scientist who manages the
technical questions, advises on priorities, and is actively involved as a lead
tester. Finally, frequent scheduled communications (for example a bi-weekly
tele-conference) assure issues are resolved quickly and the team is working
toward a common vision