We have observed the most distant (z=0.829) cluster of galaxies in the
Einstein Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey, with the ASCA and ROSAT
satellites. We find an X-ray temperature of 12.3 +3.1/-2.2 keV for this
cluster, and the ROSAT map reveals significant substructure. The high
temperature of MS1054-0321 is consistent with both its approximate velocity
dispersion, based on the redshifts of 12 cluster members we have obtained at
the Keck and the Canada-France-Hawaii telescopes, and with its weak lensing
signature. The X-ray temperature of this cluster implies a virial mass ~ 7.4 x
10^14 h^-1 solar masses, if the mean matter density in the universe equals the
critical value, or larger if Omega_0 < 1. Finding such a hot, massive cluster
in the EMSS is extremely improbable if clusters grew from Gaussian
perturbations in an Omega_0 = 1 universe. Combining the assumptions that
Omega_0 = 1 and that the intial perturbations were Gaussian with the observed
X-ray temperature function at low redshift, we show that the probability of
this cluster occurring in the volume sampled by the EMSS is less than a few
times 10^{-5}. Nor is MS1054-0321 the only hot cluster at high redshift; the
only two other $z > 0.5$ EMSS clusters already observed with ASCA also have
temperatures exceeding 8 keV. Assuming again that the initial perturbations
were Gaussian and Omega_0 = 1, we find that each one is improbable at the <
10^{-2} level. These observations, along with the fact that these luminosities
and temperatures of the high-$z$ clusters all agree with the low-z L_X-T_X
relation, argue strongly that Omega_0 < 1. Otherwise, the initial perturbations
must be non-Gaussian, if these clusters' temperatures do indeed reflect their
gravitational potentials.