We are proposing a new computational thermochemistry protocol denoted W3
theory, as a successor to W1 and W2 theory proposed earlier [Martin and De
Oliveira, J. Chem. Phys. 111, 1843 (1999)]. The new method is both more
accurate overall (error statistics for total atomization energies approximately
cut in half) and more robust (particularly towards systems exhibiting
significant nondynamical correlation) than W2 theory. The cardinal improvement
rests in an approximate account for post-CCSD(T) correlation effects. Iterative
T_3 (connected triple excitations) effects exhibit a basis set convergence
behavior similar to the T_3 contribution overall. They almost universally
decrease molecular binding energies. Their inclusion in isolation yields less
accurate results than CCSD(T) nearly across the board: it is only when T_4
(connected quadruple excitations) effects are included that superior
performance is achieved. $T_4$ effects systematically increase molecular
binding energies. Their basis set convergence is quite rapid, and even
CCSDTQ/cc-pVDZ scaled by an empirical factor of 1.2532 will yield a quite
passable quadruples contribution. The effect of still higher-order excitations
was gauged for a subset of molecules (notably the eight-valence electron
systems): T_5 (connected quintuple excitations) contributions reach 0.3
kcal/mol for the pathologically multireference X ^1\Sigma^+_g state of C_2 but
are quite small for other systems. A variety of avenues for achieving accuracy
beyond that of W3 theory were explored, to no significant avail. W3 thus
appears to represent a good compromise between accuracy and computational cost
for those seeking a robust method for computational thermochemistry in the
kJ/mol accuracy range on small systems.