The principles of the special theory of relativity are extremely simple. A
knowledge of the Pythagorean theorem and an ability to perform the simplest
algebraic operations are sufficient to be conversant with the kinematics of the
special theory of relativity, as well as the time dilation and contraction of
the longitudinal dimensions of moving bodies that are associated with relative
motion. However, the simplicity of the fundamentals of the theory of relativity
are in surprising contrast with the difficulty of the perception and at times
the total nonacceptance of the consequences of the special theory of relativity
by skeptics based on ordinary common sense. The contributors of certain popular
books on the theory of relativity explain the existence of this contrast by way
of the fact that the common sense of skeptics cut its teeth on a "stark notion
of our everyday life". The special theory of relativity is simulated in this
article based on the simplest examples of the movement of barges, shuttles, and
boats in an aquatic environment. It has been simulated without rejecting the
customary ordinary common sense. In this article, relativistic time and the
relativistic effects of Einstein's special theory of relativity - Lorentz
contraction, time dilation, relativistic Doppler effects, the Skobeltsyn-Bell
effect, and the relativistic addition of velocities - are simulated using
elementary methods of classical physics. They have been simulated without
rejecting the customary ordinary common sense that was squashed in the past
century by the celebration of "mad ideas". Lorentz transformations are
obtained. Means for simulating four-dimensional space-time are shown.