The 3C 273 and RX J1230.8+0115 sightlines probe the outskirts of the Virgo
Cluster at physical separations between the sightlines of 200-500 h_70 kpc. We
present an analysis of HST STIS echelle and FUSE UV spectroscopy of RX
J1230.8+0115 in which we detect five Lyman-alpha absorbers at Virgo distances.
One of these absorbers is a blend of two strong metal line absorbers coincident
in velocity with the highest neutral hydrogen column density absorber in the 3C
273 sightline ~350 h_70 kpc away. The consistency of the metal line column
density ratios in the RX J1230.8+0115 sightline allows us to determine the
ionization mechanism (photoionization) for these absorbers. While the low
signal-to-noise ratio of the FUSE spectrum limits our ability to model the
neutral hydrogen column density of these absorbers, we are able to constrain
them to be in the range 10^{16-17} cm^-2. The properties of these absorbers are
similar to those of the 3C 273 absorber studied by Tripp et al. However, the
inferred line-of-sight size for the 3C 273 absorber is only 70 pc, much smaller
than those inferred in RX J1230.8+0115, which are 10-30 h_70 kpc. The small
sizes of all three absorbers are at odds with the >~350 h_70 kpc minimum
transverse size implied by an application of the standard QSO line pairs
analysis. On the basis of absorber associations between these two sight lines
we conclude that a large-scale structure filament produces a correlated, not
contiguous, gaseous structure in this region of the Virgo Supercluster. These
data may indicate that we are detecting overdensities in the large scale
structure filaments in this region. Alternatively, the presence of a galaxy 71
h_70 kpc from a 3C 273 absorber may indicate that we have probed outflowing,
starburst driven shells of gas associated with nearby galaxies.