The distribution of the return intervals $\tau$ between volatilities above a
threshold $q$ for financial records has been approximated by a scaling
behavior. To explore how accurate is the scaling and therefore understand the
underlined non-linear mechanism, we investigate intraday datasets of 500 stocks
which consist of the Standard & Poor's 500 index. We show that the cumulative
distribution of return intervals has systematic deviations from scaling. We
support this finding by studying the m-th moment $\mu_m \equiv
<(\tau/<\tau>)^m>^{1/m}$, which show a certain trend with the mean interval
$<\tau>$. We generate surrogate records using the Schreiber method, and find
that their cumulative distributions almost collapse to a single curve and
moments are almost constant for most range of $<\tau>$. Those substantial
differences suggest that non-linear correlations in the original volatility
sequence account for the deviations from a single scaling law. We also find
that the original and surrogate records exhibit slight tendencies for short and
long $<\tau>$, due to the discreteness and finite size effects of the records
respectively. To avoid as possible those effects for testing the multiscaling
behavior, we investigate the moments in the range $10<<\tau>\leq100$, and find
the exponent $\alpha$ from the power law fitting $\mu_m\sim<\tau>^\alpha$ has a
narrow distribution around $\alpha\neq0$ which depend on m for the 500 stocks.
The distribution of $\alpha$ for the surrogate records are very narrow and
centered around $\alpha=0$. This suggests that the return interval distribution
exhibit multiscaling behavior due to the non-linear correlations in the
original volatility.