We study the volatility time series of 1137 most traded stocks in the US
stock markets for the two-year period 2001-02 and analyze their return
intervals $\tau$, which are time intervals between volatilities above a given
threshold $q$. We explore the probability density function of $\tau$,
$P_q(\tau)$, assuming a stretched exponential function, $P_q(\tau) \sim
e^{-\tau^\gamma}$. We find that the exponent $\gamma$ depends on the threshold
in the range between $q=1$ and 6 standard deviations of the volatility. This
finding supports the multiscaling nature of the return interval distribution.
To better understand the multiscaling origin, we study how $\gamma$ depends on
four essential factors, capitalization, risk, number of trades and return. We
show that $\gamma$ depends on the capitalization, risk and return but almost
does not depend on the number of trades. This suggests that $\gamma$ relates to
the portfolio selection but not on the market activity. To further characterize
the multiscaling of individual stocks, we fit the moments of $\tau$, $\mu_m
\equiv <(\tau/<\tau>)^m>^{1/m}$, in the range of $10 < <\tau> \le 100$ by a
power-law, $\mu_m \sim <\tau>^\delta$. The exponent $\delta$ is found also to
depend on the capitalization, risk and return but not on the number of trades,
and its tendency is opposite to that of $\gamma$. Moreover, we show that
$\delta$ decreases with $\gamma$ approximately by a linear relation. The return
intervals demonstrate the temporal structure of volatilities and our findings
suggest that their multiscaling features may be helpful for portfolio
optimization.