Neutron scattering techniques have been used to study the relaxor
ferroelectric 0.68PbMg1/3Nb2/3O3-0.32PbTiO3 denoted in this paper as
0.68PMN-0.32PT. On cooling, these relaxor ferroelectrics have a long-range
ordered ferroelectric phase and the composition is close to that at which the
ferroelectric structure changes from rhombohedral to tetragonal. It was found
that above the Burns temperature of about 600K, the transverse optic mode and
the transverse acoustic mode are strongly coupled and a model was used to
describe this coupling that gave similar parameters to those obtained for the
coupling in PMN. Below the Burns temperature additional quasi-elastic
scattering was found which increased in intensity as the sample was cooled down
to the ferroelectric transition temperature but then decreased in intensity.
This behaviour is similar to that found in PMN. This scattering is associated
with the dynamic polar nano-regions that occur below the Burns temperature. In
addition to this scattering a strictly elastic resolution limited peak was
observed that was much weaker than the corresponding peak in pure PMN and which
decreased in intensity on cooling below the ferroelectric phase whereas for
PMN, which does not have a long-range ordered ferroelectric phase, the
intensity of this component increased monotonically as the sample was cooled.
The results of our study are compared with the recent measurements of Stock et
al. [PRB 73 064107] who studied 0.4PMN-0.6PT. The results are qualitatively
consistent with the random field model developed to describe the scattering
from PMN.