Imitative and contrarian behaviors are the two typical opposite attitudes of
investors in stock markets. We introduce a simple model to investigate their
interplay in a stock market where agents can take only two states, bullish or
bearish. Each bullish (bearish) agent polls m "friends'' and changes her
opinion to bearish (bullish) if there is (1) either a majority of bearish
agents or (2) too strong a majority of bullish agents. The condition (1) (resp.
(2)) corresponds to imitative (resp. antagonistic) behavior. In the limit where
the number N of agents is infinite, the dynamics of the fraction of bullish
agents is deterministic and exhibits chaotic behavior in a significant domain
of the parameter space of the model. A typical chaotic trajectory is
characterized by intermittent phases of chaos, quasi-periodic behavior and
super-exponentially growing bubbles followed by crashes. A typical bubble
starts initially by growing at an exponential rate and then crosses over to a
nonlinear power law growth rate leading to a finite-time singularity. The
reinjection mechanism provided by the contrarian behavior introduces a
finite-size effect, rounding off these singularities and leads to chaos. We
document the main stylized facts of this model in the symmetric and asymmetric
cases. This model is one of the rare agent-based models that give rise to
interesting non-periodic complex dynamics in the ``thermodynamic'' limit (of an
infinite number N of agents). We also discuss the case of a finite number of
agents, which introduces an endogenous source of noise superimposed on the
chaotic dynamics.