The probability distribution of log-returns for financial time series,
sampled at high frequency, is the basis for any further developments in
quantitative finance. In this letter, we present experimental results based on
a large set of time series on futures. We show that the t-distribution with
$\nu \simeq 3$ gives a nice description of almost all data series considered
for a time scale $\Delta t$ below 1 hour. For $\Delta t \ge 8$ hours, the
Gaussian regime is reached. A particular focus has been put on the DAX and Euro
futures. This appears to be a quite general result that stays robust on a large
set of futures, but not on any data sets. In this sense, this is not universal.
A technique using factorial moments defined on a sequence of returns is
described and similar results for time scales are obtained. Let us note that
from a fundamental point of view, there is no clear reason why DAX and Euro
futures should present similar behavior with respect to their return
distributions. Both are complex markets where many internal and external
factors interact at each instant to determine the transaction price. These
factors are certainly different for an index on a change parity (Euro) and an
index on stocks (DAX). Thus, this is striking that we can identify universal
statistical features in price fluctuations of these markets. This is really the
advantage of micro-structure analysis to prompt unified approaches of different
kinds of markets. Finally, we examine the relation of power law distribution of
returns with another scaling behavior of the data encoded into the Hurst
exponent. We have obtained $H=0.54 \pm 0.04$ for DAX and $H=0.51 \pm 0.03$ for
Euro futures.