{abridged} We present imaging and spectroscopy of Abell 1689 (z=0.183) from
GEMINI/GMOS-N and HST/ACS. We measure integrated photometry from the GMOS g'
and r' images (for 531 galaxies) and surface photometry from the HST F625W
image (for 43 galaxies) as well as velocities and velocity dispersions from the
GMOS spectra (for 71 galaxies). We construct the Kormendy relation (KR),
Faber-Jackson relation (FJR) and colour-magnitude relation (CMR) for early-type
galaxies in Abell 1689 using this data and compare them to those of the Coma
cluster. We measure the intrinsic scatter of the CMR in Abell 1689 to be 0.054
\pm 0.004 mag which places degenerate constraints on the ratio of the assembly
timescale to the time available (beta) and the age of the population. Making
the assumption that galaxies in Abell 1689 will evolve into those of Coma over
an interval of 2.26 Gyr breaks this degeneracy and limits beta to be > 0.6 and
the age of the red sequence to be > 5.5 Gyr (formed at z > 0.55). Without
corrections for size evolution but accounting for magnitude cuts and selection
effects, the KR & FJR are inconsistent and disagree at the 2 sigma level
regarding the amount of luminosity evolution in the last 2.26 Gyr. However,
after correcting for size evolution the KR & FJR show similar changes in
luminosity (0.22 \pm 0.11 mag) that are consistent with the passive evolution
of the stellar populations from a single burst of star formation 10.2 \pm 3.3
Gyr ago (z = 1.8+inf-0.9). Thus the changes in the KR, FJR & CMR of Abell 1689
relative to Coma all agree and suggest old galaxy populations with little or no
synchronisation in the star formation histories. Furthermore, the weak evidence
for size evolution in the cluster environment in the last 2.26 Gyr places
interesting constraints on the possible mechanisms at work, favouring
harassment or secular processes over merger scenarios.