We present UV spectroscopy from HST/GHRS and reanalyze existing H_alpha
images of the quasar/galaxy pair 3C 232/NGC 3067 and of the halo gas associated
with NGC 3067. The spectra permit measurement of, or limits on, the column
densities of Fe I, Fe II, Mg I, and Mg II in the absorbing cloud. Two distinct
models of the extragalactic radiation field are considered: (1) the ionizing
spectrum is dominated by a power-law extragalactic continuum, and (2) the
power-law spectrum contains a Lyman break, implying enhanced flux longward of
912 A relative to the hydrogen-ionizing flux. The H_alpha images constrain the
escape fraction of Lyman continuum photons from the galaxy to f_esc <= 0.02.
With the assumption that the cloud is shielded from all galactic contributions,
we can constrain the intensity and shape of the extragalactic continuum. For an
AGN-dominated power-law extragalactic spectrum, we derive a limit on the
extragalactic ionizing flux Phi_ion >= 2600 photons cm^-2 s^-1, or I_0 >=
10^-23 erg cm^-2 s^-1 Hz^-1 sr^-1 for an ionizing spectrum with power-law index
of 1.8 and a cloud of constant density. When combined with previous upper
limits from the absence of H_alpha recombination emission from intergalactic
clouds, our observations require 2600 <= Phi_ion <= 10000 photons cm^-2 s^-1.
We show that if galactic contributions to the incident radiation are important,
it is difficult to constrain Phi_ion. These results demonstrate that galactic
halo opacities and their wavelength dependence are crucial to understanding the
abundance of low-ionization metals in the IGM.