Earliest AUGER UHECR anisotropy correlated with AGN within a GZK Universe
almost fade away. Recent UHECR mass compositions did show a negligible nucleon
composition and an UHECR nuclei (light or heavy) signature. The absence of
UHECR events toward the Virgo cluster, an unique spread clustering of events
around Cen-A, our nearest AGN, suggested a He-like nuclei as the main
extragalactic UHECR component from Cen A, coexisting with Auger and HIRES
composition. Because the light nuclei fragility such He UHECR cannot arrive
from Virgo. Multiplet at twenty EeV along Cen A recently discovered by Auger
confirm this interpretation to be indebt to fragments (D;He3; p) that had to
reach us along the same UHECR. Remaining majority of UHECR clustering are
partially correlated with a gamma noise at (1-3 MeV) in Comptel sky, linked to
Al 26 galactic radioactive map as well as to a few TeV gamma anisotropy maps;
rare UHECR triplet are overlapping on Vela TeV anisotropy. Therefore UHECR
might be also (or mostly) heavy radioactive galactic nuclei as Ni55, Ni56, Ni57
and Co57 bent from the sources whose gamma and beta radioactivity and decay in
flight is boosted (by Lorentz factor near a billion), leading to TeV correlated
sky anisotropy. Galactic UHECR signals inside the inner center maybe suppressed
by Lorentz bending forces. More clustering around external galactic plane is
expected. Magellanic Cloud and Magellanic Stream may also rise in UHECR maps
(as well as in multiplet). Future UHECR clustering might be observed around Cas
A and Cygnus by T.A. The UHECR spectra cut off may be just the imprint of a
galactic confinement and-or a spectroscopic heavy composition decrease step.