We report on the first metallicity determination for gas in the Magellanic
Stream, using archival HST GHRS data for the background targets Fairall 9, III
Zw 2, and NGC 7469. For Fairall 9, using two subsequent HST revisits and new
Parkes Multibeam Narrowband observations, we have unequivocally detected the
MSI HI component of the Stream (near its head) in SII1250,1253 yielding a
metallicity of [SII/H]=-0.55+/-0.06(r)+/-0.2(s), consistent with either an SMC
or LMC origin and with the earlier upper limit set by Lu et al. (1994). We also
detect the saturated SiII1260 line, but set only a lower limit of
[SiII/H]>-1.5. We present serendipitous detections of the Stream, seen in
MgII2796,2803 absorption with column densities of (0.5-1)x10^13 cm^-2 toward
the Seyfert galaxies III Zw 2 and NGC 7469. These latter sightlines probe gas
near the tip of the Stream (80 deg down-Stream of Fairall 9). For III Zw 2, the
lack of an accurate HI column density and the uncertain MgIII ionization
correction limits the degree to which we can constrain [Mg/H]; a lower limit of
[MgII/HI]>-1.3 was found. For NGC 7469, an accurate HI column density
determination exists, but the extant FOS spectrum limits the quality of the
MgII column density determination, and we conclude that [MgII/HI]>-1.5.
Ionization corrections associated with MgIII and HII suggest that the
corresponding [Mg/H] may range lower by 0.3-1.0 dex. However, an upward
revision of 0.5-1.0 dex would be expected under the assumption that the Stream
exhibits a dust depletion pattern similar to that seen in the Magellanic
Clouds. Remaining uncertainties do not allow us to differentiate between an LMC
versus SMC origin to the Stream gas.