The computer science research community has became increasingly interested in
the study of social media due to their pervasiveness in the everyday life of
millions of individuals. Methodological questions and technical challenges
abound as more and more data from social platforms become available for
analysis. This data deluge not only yields the unprecedented opportunity to
unravel questions about online individuals' behavior at scale, but also allows
to explore the potential perils that the massive adoption of social media
brings to our society. These communication channels provide plenty of
incentives (both economical and social) and opportunities for abuse. As social
media activity became increasingly intertwined with the events in the offline
world, individuals and organizations have found ways to exploit these platforms
to spread misinformation, to attack and smear others, or to deceive and
manipulate. During crises, social media have been effectively used for
emergency response, but fear-mongering actions have also triggered mass
hysteria and panic. Criminal gangs and terrorist organizations like ISIS adopt
social media for propaganda and recruitment. Synthetic activity and social bots
have been used to coordinate orchestrated astroturf campaigns, to manipulate
political elections and the stock market. The lack of effective content
verification systems on many of these platforms, including Twitter and
Facebook, rises concerns when younger users become exposed to cyber-bulling,
harassment, or hate speech, inducing risks like depression and suicide. This
article illustrates some of the recent advances facing these issues and
discusses what it remains to be done, including the challenges to address in
the future to make social media a more useful and accessible, safer and
healthier environment for all users.