We present new optical and near-IR spectroscopy as well as new high dynamic
range, arcsecond-resolution VLA radio maps of BL Lacs from the complete
radio-selected "1 Jansky" (1Jy) sample (RBLs) for which such data were not
previously available. Unlike BL Lacs from the complete X-ray-selected Einstein
Medium Sensitivity Survey (EMSS) sample (XBLs), most RBLs possess weak but
moderately luminous emission lines. And whereas nearly all XBLs have extended
power levels consistent with FR-1s, more than half of the RBLs have extended
radio power levels too luminous to be beamed FR-1 radio galaxies. In fact, we
find evidence for and examples of three distinct mechanisms for creating the BL
Lac phenomenon in the 1Jy sample: beamed FR-1s, beamed FR-2s and possibly a few
gravitationally-lensed quasars. The v/v_max determined for the 1Jy sample is
0.614+/-0.047, which is markedly different from the negative evolution seen in
the EMSS and other XBL samples. A correlation between logarithmic X-ray to
radio flux ratio and v/v_max is observed across the EMSS and 1Jy samples, from
negative evolution in the more extreme XBLs to positive evolution in the more
extreme RBLs. There is evidence that the selection criteria chosen by Stickel
et al. eliminates some BL Lac objects from the 1Jy sample, although how many is
unknown. And several objects currently in the sample have exhibited strong
emission lines in one or more epochs, suggesting they should be reclassified as
FSRQs. However these selection effects cannot account for the observed
discrepancy in XBL and RBL properties. From these observational properties we
conclude that RBLs and XBLs cannot be related by viewing angle alone, and that
RBLs are more closely related to FSRQs.