We construct a phase diagram of the parent compound Fe1+xTe as a function of
interstitial iron x in terms of the electronic, structural, and magnetic
properties. For a concentration of x < 10%, Fe1+xTe undergoes a "semimetal" to
metal transition at approximately 70 K that is also first-order and coincident
with a structural transition from a tetragonal to a monoclinic unit cell. For x
~ 14%, Fe1+xTe undergoes a second-order phase transition at approximately 58 K
corresponding to a "semimetal" to "semimetal" transition along with a
structural orthorhombic distortion. At a critical concentration of x ~ 11%,
Fe1+xTe undergoes two transitions: the higher temperature one is a second-order
transition to an orthorhombic phase with incommensurate magnetic ordering and
temperature-dependent propagation vector, while the lower temperature one
corresponds to nucleation of a monoclinic phase with a nearly commensurate
magnetic wavevector. While both structural and magnetic transitions display
similar critical behavior for x < 10% and near the critical concentration of x
~ 11%, samples with large interstitial iron concentrations show a marked
deviation between the critical response indicating a decoupling of the order
parameters. Analysis of temperature dependent inelastic neutron data reveals
incommensurate magnetic fluctuations throughout the Fe1+xTe phase diagram are
directly connected to the "semiconductor"-like resistivity above T_N and
implicates scattering from spin fluctuations as the primary reason for the
semiconducting or poor metallic properties. The results suggest that doping
driven Fermi surface nesting maybe the origin of the gapless and incommensurate
spin response at large interstitial concentrations.