Understanding the statistical properties of recurrence intervals of extreme
events is crucial to risk assessment and management of complex systems. The
probability distributions and correlations of recurrence intervals for many
systems have been extensively investigated. However, the impacts of microscopic
rules of a complex system on the macroscopic properties of its recurrence
intervals are less studied. In this Letter, we adopt an order-driven stock
market model to address this issue for stock returns. We find that the
distributions of the scaled recurrence intervals of simulated returns have a
power law scaling with stretched exponential cutoff and the intervals possess
multifractal nature, which are consistent with empirical results. We further
investigate the effects of long memory in the directions (or signs) and
relative prices of the order flow on the characteristic quantities of these
properties. It is found that the long memory in the order directions (Hurst
index $H_s$) has a negligible effect on the interval distributions and the
multifractal nature. In contrast, the power-law exponent of the interval
distribution increases linearly with respect to the Hurst index $H_x$ of the
relative prices, and the singularity width of the multifractal nature
fluctuates around a constant value when $H_x<0.7$ and then increases with
$H_x$. No evident effects of $H_s$ and $H_x$ are found on the long memory of
the recurrence intervals. Our results indicate that the nontrivial properties
of the recurrence intervals of returns are mainly caused by traders' behaviors
of persistently placing new orders around the best bid and ask prices.