Exponential L\'evy processes can be used to model the evolution of various
financial variables such as FX rates, stock prices, etc. Considerable efforts
have been devoted to pricing derivatives written on underliers governed by such
processes, and the corresponding implied volatility surfaces have been analyzed
in some detail. In the non-asymptotic regimes, option prices are described by
the Lewis-Lipton formula which allows one to represent them as Fourier
integrals; the prices can be trivially expressed in terms of their implied
volatility. Recently, attempts at calculating the asymptotic limits of the
implied volatility have yielded several expressions for the short-time,
long-time, and wing asymptotics. In order to study the volatility surface in
required detail, in this paper we use the FX conventions and describe the
implied volatility as a function of the Black-Scholes delta. Surprisingly, this
convention is closely related to the resolution of singularities frequently
used in algebraic geometry. In this framework, we survey the literature,
reformulate some known facts regarding the asymptotic behavior of the implied
volatility, and present several new results. We emphasize the role of
fractional differentiation in studying the tempered stable exponential Levy
processes and derive novel numerical methods based on judicial
finite-difference approximations for fractional derivatives. We also briefly
demonstrate how to extend our results in order to study important cases of
local and stochastic volatility models, whose close relation to the L\'evy
process based models is particularly clear when the Lewis-Lipton formula is
used. Our main conclusion is that studying asymptotic properties of the implied
volatility, while theoretically exciting, is not always practically useful
because the domain of validity of many asymptotic expressions is small.