We perform an extended analysis of the distribution of drawdowns in the two
leading exchange markets (US dollar against the Deutsmark and against the Yen),
in the major world stock markets, in the U.S. and Japanese bond market and in
the gold market, by introducing the concept of ``coarse-grained drawdowns,''
which allows for a certain degree of fuzziness in the definition of cumulative
losses and improves on the statistics of our previous results on the existence
of ``outliers'' or ``kings.'' Then, for each identified outlier, we check
whether log-periodic power law signatures (LPPS) are present and take the
existence of LPPS as the qualifying signature for an endogenous crash: this is
because a drawdown outlier is seen as the end of a speculative unsustainable
accelerating bubble generated endogenously. In the absence of LPPS, we are able
to identify what seems to have been the relevant historical event, i.e., a new
piece of information of such magnitude and impact that it is seems reasonable
to attribute the crash to it, in agreement with the standard view of the
efficient market hypothesis. Such drawdown outliers are classified as having an
exogenous origin. Globally over all the markets analyzed, we identify 49
outliers, of which 25 are classified as endogenous, 22 as exogeneous and 2 as
associated with the Japanese anti-bubble. Restricting to the world market
indices, we find 31 outliers, of which 19 are endogenous, 10 are exogenous and
2 are associated with the Japanese anti-bubble. The combination of the two
proposed detection techniques, one for drawdown outliers and the second for
LPPS, provides a novel and systematic taxonomy of crashes further subtantiating
the importance of LPPS.