We have used a high resolution Chandra observation to examine the core mass
distribution of the unusually regular cD cluster Abell 2029. This system is
especially well-suited for analysis of its mass distribution under the
assumption of hydrostatic equilibrium: it exhibits an undisturbed X-ray
morphology and a single-phase ICM. We estimate the total mass, and the
contributions of the gas and dark matter components from <3 arcsec to ~3 arcmin
(<4.4-260 kpc, 0.001-0.1 r_vir). The gas density is well fitted by either a
double beta-model, or a ``cusped'' beta-model. The temperature data are
increasing, and can be approximated by a power-law, with alpha_T = 0.27+/-0.01.
  Fitting smooth functions to density and T, we obtain a mass profile, which is
remarkably well described down to 0.002 r_vir by the NFW model, for which we
measure r_scale = 540+/-90 kpc (~0.2 r_vir) and c = 4.4 +/- 0.9. The mass
profile is also approximated by a power-law fit with alpha_m = 1.81+/-0.04
(corresponding to a logarithmic density slope of -1.19+/-0.04). The density
profile is too shallow to be fitted with a Moore et al. model. The consistency
with NFW at <0.01 r_vir is incompatible with SIDM, and contrasts with the
results from rotation curves of LSB and dwarf galaxies. This suggests that
while CDM may adequately describe clusters, it does not currently account
properly for small halos.
  Using the cD light, we observe a total M/L_V ~ 12 at r < 20 kpc, rising to >
100 beyond 200 kpc. The consistency with an NFW halo model and the large M/L
suggest the cluster is DM-dominated down to <~ 0.005 r_vir. We observe a gas
mass fraction = 0.139+/-0.004 at the limit of our observations, finding an
upper limit to Omega_m <= 0.29+/-0.03 (abridged).