We present new optical emission-line images of the young SNR 1E 0102-7219
(E0102) in the SMC obtained with the HST Advanced Camera for Surveys (ACS).
E0102 is a member of the oxygen-rich class of SNRs showing strong oxygen, neon
, and other metal-line emissions in its optical and X-ray spectra, and an
absence of H and He. The progenitor of E0102 may have been a Wolf-Rayet star
that underwent considerable mass loss prior to exploding as a Type Ib/c or
IIL/b SN. The ejecta in this SNR are fast-moving (V > 1000 km/s) and emit as
they are compressed and heated in the reverse shock. In 2003, we obtained
optical [O III], H-alpha, and continuum images with the ACS Wide Field Camera.
The [O III] image captures the full velocity range of the ejecta, and shows
considerable high-velocity emission projected in the middle of the SNR that was
Doppler-shifted out of the narrow F502N bandpass of a previous Wide Field and
Planetary Camera 2 image from 1995. Using these two epochs separated by ~8.5
years, we measure the transverse expansion of the ejecta around the outer rim
in this SNR for the first time at visible wavelengths. From proper-motion
measurements of 12 ejecta filaments, we estimate a mean expansion velocity for
the bright ejecta of ~2000 km/s and an inferred kinematic age for the SNR of
\~2050 +/- 600 years. The age we derive from HST data is about twice that
inferred by Hughes et al.(2000) from X-ray data, though our 1-sigma error bars
overlap. Our proper-motion age is consistent with an independent optical
kinematic age derived by Eriksen et al.(2003) using spatially resolved [O III]
radial-velocity data. We derive an expansion center that lies very close to
X-ray and radio hotspots, which could indicate the presence of a compact
remnant (neutron star or black hole).