We present HST/STIS and FUSE spectra of the QSO PG 1211+143 (z_em = 0.081)
and a galaxy survey of the surrounding field. This sightline shows two strong
intergalactic absorption systems at cz ~ 15,300 and 19,300. This sightline
addresses the nature and origin of the OVI absorbers, and their connection to
galaxies. We explore the relationship of these absorbers to the nearby galaxies
and compare them to other OVI-bearing absorbers in diverse environments. At
15,300 km s^-1, we find four distinct HI components and associated CII, CIII,
CIV, SiII, SiIII, SiIV, NV, and OVI, lying near a spiral-dominated galaxy group
with a bright member galaxy 137 h_70^-1 kpc from the sightline. The observed
ions of C, Si, and N are likely to be photoionized, but the OVI is more
consistent with collisional ionization. The ion ratios in this absorber
resemble the highly-ionized Galactic HVCs; it may also trace the hot intragroup
medium gas or the unbound wind of an undiscovered dwarf galaxy. At 19,300 km
s^-1, we find five HI components and associated CIII, SiIII, and
collisionally-ionized OVI lying 146 h_70^-1 kpc from an isolated galaxy. The
properties of the OVI-bearing gas are consistent with an origin in strong
shocks between low-metallicity gas (>= 2 - 6 % solar) and one or more of the
warm photoionized components. It is likely that these absorbers are related to
the nearby galaxies, perhaps by outflows or gas stripped from unseen satellite
galaxies by interactions. However, we cannot reject completely the hypothesis
that they reside in the same large-scale structure in which the galaxies are
embedded but are otherwise not directly related.