We present ground-based spectroscopic verification of six Y dwarfs (see
Cushing et al), eighty-nine T dwarfs, eight L dwarfs, and one M dwarf
identified by the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE). Eighty of these
are cold brown dwarfs with spectral types greater than or equal to T6, six of
which have been announced earlier in Mainzer et al and Burgasser et al. We
present color-color and color-type diagrams showing the locus of M, L, T, and Y
dwarfs in WISE color space. Near-infrared classifications as late as early Y
are presented and objects with peculiar spectra are discussed. After deriving
an absolute WISE 4.6 um (W2) magnitude vs. spectral type relation, we estimate
spectrophotometric distances to our discoveries. We also use available
astrometric measurements to provide preliminary trigonometric parallaxes to
four our discoveries, which have types of L9 pec (red), T8, T9, and Y0; all of
these lie within 10 pc of the Sun. The Y0 dwarf, WISE 1541-2250, is the closest
at 2.8 (+1.3,-0.6) pc; if this 2.8 pc value persists after continued
monitoring, WISE 1541-2250 will become the seventh closest stellar system to
the Sun. Another ten objects, with types between T6 and >Y0, have
spectrophotometric distance estimates also placing them within 10 pc. The
closest of these, the T6 dwarf WISE 1506+7027, is believed to fall at a
distance of roughly 4.9 pc. WISE multi-epoch positions supplemented with
positional info primarily from Spitzer/IRAC allow us to calculate proper
motions and tangential velocities for roughly one half of the new discoveries.
This work represents the first step by WISE to complete a full-sky,
volume-limited census of late-T and Y dwarfs. Using early results from this
census, we present preliminary, lower limits to the space density of these
objects and discuss constraints on both the functional form of the mass
function and the low-mass limit of star formation.