We report X-ray imaging - spectroscopy of the jet of M87 at sub arc second
resolution with the Chandra X-ray Observatory. The galaxy nucleus and all the
knots seen at radio and optical wavelengths, as far from the nucleus as knot C,
are detected in the X-ray observations. There is a strong trend for the ratio
of X-ray to radio, or optical, flux to decline with increasing distance from
the nucleus. At least three knots are displaced from their radio/optical
counterparts, being tens of pc closer to the nucleus at X-ray than at radio or
optical wavelengths. The X-ray spectra of the nucleus and knots are well
described by power laws absorbed by cold gas, with only the unresolved nucleus
exhibiting intrinsic absorption. In view of the similar spectra of the nucleus
and jet knots, and the high X-ray flux of the knots closest to the nucleus, we
suggest that the X-ray emission coincident with the nucleus may actually
originate from the pc - or sub-pc - scale jet rather than the accretion disk.
  Arguments are given that the X-ray emission process is unlikely to be inverse
Compton scattering. Instead, we favor synchrotron radiation. Plotted as
$\nu$S$_{\rm \nu}$, the spectra of the knots generally peak in or just above
the optical - near infrared band. However, the overall spectra of at least
three knots cannot be described by simple models in which the spectral index
monotonically increases with frequency, as would result from synchrotron losses
or a high energy cut-off to the injected electron spectrum. Instead, these
spectra must turn down just above the optical band and then flatten in the
X-ray band. (Abstract truncated)