The size and mass of two circum-galactic medium (CGM) clouds in the halo
(impact parameter = 65 kpc) of a nearby late-type galaxy, MGC-01-04-005 ($cz =
1865$ km/s), are investigated using a close triplet of QSO sight lines (the
"LBQS Triplet"; Crighton et al. 2010). Far ultraviolet spectra obtained with
the Cosmic Origins Spectrograph (COS) aboard the Hubble Space Telescope (HST)
find two velocity components in Lyman $\alpha$ at $\sim1830$ and 1900 km/s in
two of these sight lines, requiring minimum transverse cloud sizes of $\geq10$
kpc. A plausible, but not conclusive, detection of CIV 1548 \AA\ absorption at
the higher velocity in the third sight line suggests an even larger lower limit
of $\geq23$ kpc for that cloud. Using various combinations of constraints,
including photo-ionization modeling for one absorber, lower limits on masses of
these two clouds of $\geq10^6$ M_Sun are obtained. Ground-based imaging and
long-slit spectroscopy of MCG -01-04-005 obtained at the Apache Point
Observatory (APO) 3.5m telescope find it to be a relatively normal late-type
galaxy with a current star formation rate (SFR) of $\sim0.01$ M_Sun per year.
Galaxy Evolution Explorer (GALEX) photometry finds an SFR only a few times
higher over the last $10^8$ yrs. We conclude that the CGM clouds probed by
these spectra are typical in being at impact parameters of 0.4-0.5 R_vir from a
rather typical, non-starbursting late-type galaxy so that these size and mass
results should be generic for this class. Therefore, at least some CGM clouds
are exceptionally large and massive.