SN 2008S erupted in early 2008 in the grand design spiral galaxy NGC 6946.
The progenitor was detected by Prieto et al. in Spitzer Space Telescope images
taken over the four years prior to the explosion, but was not detected in deep
optical images, from which they inferred a self-obscured object with a mass of
about 10 Msun. We obtained Spitzer observations of SN 2008S five days after its
discovery, as well as coordinated Gemini and Spitzer optical and infrared
observations six months after its outburst.
  We have constructed radiative transfer dust models for the object before and
after the outburst, using the same r^-2 density distribution of pre-existing
amorphous carbon grains for all epochs and taking light-travel time effects
into account for the early post-outburst epoch. We rule out silicate grains as
a significant component of the dust around SN 2008S. The inner radius of the
dust shell moved outwards from its pre-outburst value of 85 AU to a
post-outburst value of 1250 AU, attributable to grain vaporisation by the light
flash from SN 2008S. Although this caused the circumstellar extinction to
decrease from Av = 15 before the outburst to 0.8 after the outburst, we
estimate that less than 2% of the overall circumstellar dust mass was
destroyed.
  The total mass-loss rate from the progenitor star is estimated to have been
(0.5-1.0)x10^-4 Msun yr^-1. The derived dust mass-loss rate of 5x10^-7 Msun
yr^-1 implies a total dust injection into the ISM of up to 0.01 Msun over the
suggested duration of the self-obscured phase. We consider the potential
contribution of objects like SN 2008S to the dust enrichment of galaxies.