We report on the results from observations of the most recent outbursts of
XTE J1739-302 and IGR J17544-2619, which are considered to be the prototypes of
the supergiant fast X-ray transient (SFXT) class. They triggered the Swift/BAT
on 2011 February 22 and March 24, respectively, and each time a prompt Swift
slew allowed us to obtain the rich broad-band data we present. The XRT light
curves show the descending portion of very bright flares that reached
luminosities of ~2x10^{36} and ~5x10^{36} erg/s, respectively. The broad-band
spectra, when fit with the usual phenomenological models adopted for accreting
neutron stars, yield values of both high energy cut-off and e-folding energy
consistent with those obtained from previously reported outbursts from these
sources. In the context of more physical models, the spectra of both sources
can be well fitted either with a two-blackbody model, or with a single
unsaturated Comptonization model. In the latter case, the model can be either a
classical static Comptonization model, such as COMPTT, or the recently
developed COMPMAG model, which includes thermal and bulk Comptonization for
cylindrical accretion onto a magnetized neutron star. We discuss the possible
accretion scenarios derived by the different models, and we also emphasize the
fact that the electron density derived from the Comptonization models, in the
regions where the X-ray spectrum presumably forms, is lower than that estimated
using the continuity equation at the magnetospheric radius and the source X-ray
luminosity, and we give some possible explanations.