Bangladesh is an over populated developing country where crisis of food is a
major issue, it faces different infrastructure problem in every sector. For
Poverty Alleviation from the country we have to confirm cultivable land to
increase the crop production for feeding the over population of the country.
This paper focuses on the measurement of cultivable land for cultivation. The
main purpose of this paper is to briefly describe how the GIS, Digital Mapping,
Internet concepts and tools can effectively contribute in the modeling,
analysis and visualization phases within an engineering or research project
according to the crops by using object detection, object tracking and field
mapping in Bangladesh. Through GIS mapping of the agricultural lands, the
statistics can be made of how much land is cultivable and each year how much
land we are losing. Mapping the cultivation land will tell us how much crop we
have to import from other countries. Enabling real-time GIS analysis anytime,
anywhere, the implementation of the GIS information to a wider aspect.
Automation is the indicator of the modern civilizations. The system will
benefit the food stock of the country according to the harvest. For this
research we developed a new interactive system. The system will integrate with
GIS project data in Google Earth, first finds highly accurate cluster images
and partial images, obtains user feedback to merge or correct these digests,
and then the supplementary visual analysis complete the partitioning of the
data. This study was conducted at the software laboratory, Computer Science and
Engineering department, Jahangirnagar University, Dhaka, Bangladesh in 2013.