We aim to identify the birth place of the young pulsar PSR J0826+2637 in
order to determine its kinematic age and give constraints on its radial and
spatial (kick) velocity. Since the majority of neutron star (NS) progenitors
are in associations or clusters, we search for a possible origin of the NS
inside such stellar groups. We trace back the NS and the centres of possible
birth associations and clusters to find close encounters. The kinematic age is
then given by the time since the encounter. We use Monte Carlo simulations to
account for observational uncertainties and the unknown radial velocity of the
NS. We evaluate the outcome statistically. In order to find further indication
for our findings, we also search for a runaway star that could be the former
companion if it exists. We find that PSR J0826+2637 was probably born in the
small young cluster Stock 7 ~3 Myr ago. This result is supported by the
identification of the former companion candidate HIP 13962 (runaway star with
spectral type G0Ia). The scenario predicts a near-zero radial velocity of the
pulsar implying an inclination angle of its motion to the line-of-sight of
87+/-11 deg. We also present the chemical abundances of HIP 13962. We do not
find enhanced alpha element abundances in the highly evolved star. However, the
binary supernova scenario may be supported by the overabundance of r-process
elements that could have been ejected during the supernova and accreted by the
runaway star. Also, a high rotational velocity of v sin i ~29 km/s of HIP 13962
is consistent with evolution in a pre-SN binary system.