The mass function of super-massive black holes in our cosmic neighborhood is
required to understand the statistics of their activity and consequently the
origin of the ultra high energy particles. We determine a mass function of
black hole candidates from the entire sky except for the Galactic plane. Using
the 2MASS catalogue as a starting point, and the well established correlation
between black hole mass and the bulge of old population of stars, we derive a
list of nearby black hole candidates within the redshift range z < 0.025, then
do a further selection based on the Hubble-type, and give this as a catalogue
elsewhere. The final list of black hole candidates above a mass of M_BH >
3*10^{6} M_sol has 5,829 entries; moreover doing a further Hubble type
correction to account for the selection effects cuts down the number to 2,919
black hole candidates. We also correct for volume, so that this mass function
is a volume limited distribution to redshift 0.025 The differential mass
function of nearby black hole candidates is a curved function, with a straight
simple power-law of index -3 above 10^{8} M_sol, growing progressively flatter
towards lower masses, turning off towards a gap below 3*10^{6} M_sol, and then
extending into the range where nuclear star clusters replace black holes. The
shape of this mass function can be explained in a simple merger picture.
Integrating this mass function over the redshift range, from which it has been
derived, gives a total number of black holes with z < 0.025, and M_BH > 10^{7}
M_sol of about 2.4*10^{4}, or, if we just average uniformly, 0.6 for every
square degree on the sky. In different models many of these are candidates for
ultra high energy particles sources. If a very small fraction of the
super-massive black holes produces ultra high energy cosmic rays, this should
be enough to observe the highly inhomogeneous distribution of the galaxies.