Simulations of artificial stock markets were considered as early as 1964 and
multi-agent ones were introduced as early as 1989. Starting the early 90's,
collaborations of economists and physicists produced increasingly realistic
simulation platforms. Currently, the market stylized facts are easily
reproduced and one has now to address the realistic details of the Market
Microstructure and of the Traders Behaviour. This calls for new methods and
tools capable of bridging smoothly between simulations and experiments in
economics.
  We propose here the following Avatar-Based Method (ABM). The subjects
implement and maintain their Avatars (programs encoding their personal decision
making procedures) on NatLab, a market simulation platform. Once these
procedures are fed in a computer edible format, they can be operationally used
as such without the need for belabouring, interpreting or conceptualising them.
Thus ABM short-circuits the usual behavioural economics experiments that search
for the psychological mechanisms underlying the subjects behaviour. Finally,
ABM maintains a level of objectivity close to the classical behaviourism while
extending its scope to subjects' decision making mechanisms.
  We report on experiments where Avatars designed and maintained by humans from
different backgrounds (including real traders) compete in a continuous
double-auction market. We hope this unbiased way of capturing the adaptive
evolution of real subjects behaviour may lead to a new kind of behavioural
economics experiments with a high degree of reliability, analysability and
reproducibility.