The spectral and temporal behavior of exoplanet host stars is a critical
input to models of the chemistry and evolution of planetary atmospheres. At
present, little observational or theoretical basis exists for understanding the
ultraviolet spectra of M dwarfs, despite their critical importance to
predicting and interpreting the spectra of potentially habitable planets as
they are obtained in the coming decades. Using observations from the Hubble
Space Telescope, we present a study of the UV radiation fields around nearby M
dwarf planet hosts that covers both FUV and NUV wavelengths. The combined
FUV+NUV spectra are publically available in machine-readable format. We find
that all six exoplanet host stars in our sample (GJ 581, GJ 876, GJ 436, GJ
832, GJ 667C, and GJ 1214) exhibit some level of chromospheric and transition
region UV emission. No "UV quiet" M dwarfs are observed. The bright stellar
Ly-alpha emission lines are reconstructed, and we find that the Ly-alpha line
fluxes comprise ~37-75% of the total 1150-3100A flux from most M dwarfs; >
10^{3} times the solar value. The F(FUV)/F(NUV) flux ratio, a driver for
abiotic production of the suggested biomarkers O2 and O3, is shown to be ~0.5-3
for all M dwarfs in our sample, > 10^{3} times the solar ratio. For the four
stars with moderate signal-to-noise COS time-resolved spectra, we find UV
emission line variability with amplitudes of 50-500% on 10^{2} - 10^{3} s
timescales. Finally, we observe relatively bright H2 fluorescent emission from
four of the M dwarf exoplanetary systems (GJ 581, GJ 876, GJ 436, and GJ 832).
Additional modeling work is needed to differentiate between a stellar
photospheric or possible exoplanetary origin for the hot (T(H2) \approx
2000-4000 K) molecular gas observed in these objects.