Dominant negative mutations in the insulin gene are the second most common
cause of permanent neonatal diabetes. However, variation in severity and
penetrance of neonatal diabetes, as in other complex genetic diseases, cannot
be accounted for by known disease mutations. In a novel approach to this
problem, we have utilized the genetic tools available in Drosophila to model
the effects of the C96Y mutation, a cysteine to tyrosine mutation in the
insulin protein that can cause permanent neonatal diabetes in humans. This
mutation, which disrupts a disulfide bridge in the proinsulin molecule, has
been shown to lead to partial protein unfolding and aggregation in the
endoplasmic reticulum. It is thought to induce beta cell death in humans and
mice through endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated apoptosis. We employed the
UAS/GAL4 system to create a stable fly laboratory stock expressing human
insulin with the C96Y mutation (INSC96Y) in the Drosophila eye. We crossed
these transgenic INSC96Y flies to 36 isogenic lines derived from a wild
population. The F1 flies displayed a disrupted eye development phenotype, with
both reduced eye size and irregularity in ommatidia, which varied between lines
and with sex. By backcrossing F1 offspring to their wild parents, we were able
to analyze the effects of naturally occurring genetic variation on the INSC96Y
phenotype in flies both heterozygous and homozygous for wild third chromosomes.
We observed significant differences between lines in terms of eye size, eye
shape, the presence or absence of lesions, and degree of ommatidial structure
present, indicating that an approach that takes into account quantitative
variation in the genetic background can yield valuable insights into the
phenotypic severity and penetrance of a complex genetic disease.