This paper introduces a new method for learning and inferring sparse
representations of depth (disparity) maps. The proposed algorithm relaxes the
usual assumption of the stationary noise model in sparse coding. This enables
learning from data corrupted with spatially varying noise or uncertainty,
typically obtained by laser range scanners or structured light depth cameras.
Sparse representations are learned from the Middlebury database disparity maps
and then exploited in a two-layer graphical model for inferring depth from
stereo, by including a sparsity prior on the learned features. Since they
capture higher-order dependencies in the depth structure, these priors can
complement smoothness priors commonly used in depth inference based on Markov
Random Field (MRF) models. Inference on the proposed graph is achieved using an
alternating iterative optimization technique, where the first layer is solved
using an existing MRF-based stereo matching algorithm, then held fixed as the
second layer is solved using the proposed non-stationary sparse coding
algorithm. This leads to a general method for improving solutions of state of
the art MRF-based depth estimation algorithms. Our experimental results first
show that depth inference using learned representations leads to state of the
art denoising of depth maps obtained from laser range scanners and a time of
flight camera. Furthermore, we show that adding sparse priors improves the
results of two depth estimation methods: the classical graph cut algorithm by
Boykov et al. and the more recent algorithm of Woodford et al.