We investigate the use of optical photometric variability to select and
identify blazars in large-scale time-domain surveys, in part to aid in the
identification of blazar counterparts to the ~30% of gamma-ray sources in the
Fermi 2FGL catalog still lacking reliable associations. Using data from the
optical LINEAR asteroid survey, we characterize the optical variability of
blazars by fitting a damped random walk model to individual light curves with
two main model parameters, the characteristic timescales of variability (tau),
and driving amplitudes on short timescales (sigma). Imposing cuts on minimum
tau and sigma allows for blazar selection with high efficiency E and
completeness C. To test the efficacy of this approach, we apply this method to
optically variable LINEAR objects that fall within the several-arcminute error
ellipses of gamma-ray sources in the Fermi 2FGL catalog. Despite the extreme
stellar contamination at the shallow depth of the LINEAR survey, we are able to
recover previously-associated optical counterparts to Fermi AGN with E > 88%
and C = 88% in Fermi 95% confidence error ellipses having semimajor axis r <
8'. We find that the suggested radio counterpart to Fermi source 2FGL
J1649.6+5238 has optical variability consistent with other gamma-ray blazars,
and is likely to be the gamma-ray source. Our results suggest that the
variability of the non-thermal jet emission in blazars is stochastic in nature,
with unique variability properties due to the effects of relativistic beaming.
After correcting for beaming, we estimate that the characteristic timescale of
blazar variability is ~3 years in the rest-frame of the jet, in contrast with
the ~320 day disk flux timescale observed in quasars. The variability-based
selection method presented will be useful for blazar identification in
time-domain optical surveys, and is also a probe of jet physics.