A new model for quasar-hosting dark matter halos, meeting two physical
conditions, is put forth. First, significant interactions are taken into
consideration to trigger quasar activities. Second, satellites in very massive
halos at low redshift are removed from consideration, due to their deficiency
of cold gas. We analyze the {\em Millennium Simulation} to find halos that meet
these two conditions and simultaneously match two-point auto-correlation
functions of quasars and cross-correlation functions between quasars and
galaxies at $z=0.5-3.2$. %The found halos have some distinct properties worth
noting. The masses of found quasar hosts decrease with decreasing redshift,
with the mass thresholds being $[(2-5)\times 10^{12}, (2-5)\times 10^{11},
(1-3)\times 10^{11}]\msun$ for median luminosities of $\sim[10^{46}, 10^{46},
10^{45}]$erg/s at $z=(3.2, 1.4, 0.53)$, respectively, an order of magnitude
lower than those inferred based on halo occupation distribution modeling. In
this model quasar hosts are primarily massive central halos at $z\ge 2-3$ but
increasingly dominated by lower mass satellite halos experiencing major
interactions towards lower redshift. But below $z=1$ satellite halos in groups
more massive than $\sim 2\times 10^{13}\msun$ do not host quasars. Whether for
central or satellite halos, imposing the condition of significant interactions
substantially boosts the clustering strength compared to the total population
with the same mass cut. The inferred lifetimes of quasars at $z=0.5-3.2$ of
$3-30$Myr are in agreement with observations. Quasars at $z\sim 2$ would be
hosted by halos of mass $\sim 5\times 10^{11}\msun$ in this model, compared to
$\sim 3\times 10^{12}\msun$ previously thought, which would help reconcile with
the observed, otherwise puzzling high covering fractions for Lyman limit
systems around quasars.