Recent coordinated observations of interplanetary scintillation (IPS) and
stereoscopic heliospheric imagers (HIs) are significant to continuously track
the propagation and evolution of solar eruptions throughout interplanetary
space. In order to obtain a better understanding of the observational
signatures in these two remote-sensing techniques, the magnetohydrodynamics of
the macro-scale interplanetary disturbance and the radio-wave scattering of the
micro-scale electron-density fluctuation are coupled and investigated using a
newly-constructed multi-scale numerical model. This model is then applied to a
case of an interplanetary shock propagation within the ecliptic plane. The
shock could be nearly invisible to an HI, once entering the Thomson-scattering
sphere of the HI. The asymmetry in the optical images between the western and
eastern HIs suggests the shock propagation off the Sun-Earth line. Meanwhile,
an IPS signal, strongly dependent on the local electron density, is insensitive
to the density cavity far downstream of the shock front. When this cavity (or
the shock nose) is cut through by an IPS ray-path, a single speed component at
the flank (or the nose) of the shock can be recorded; when an IPS ray-path
penetrates the sheath between the shock nose and this cavity, two speed
components at the sheath and flank can be detected. Moreover, once a shock
front touches an IPS ray-path, the derived position and speed at the
irregularity source of this IPS signal, together with an assumption of a radial
and constant propagation of the shock, can be used to estimate the later
appearance of the shock front in the elongation of the HI field of view. The
results of synthetic measurements from forward modelling are helpful in
inferring the in-situ properties of coronal mass ejection from real
observational data via an inverse approach.