We detect high-velocity absorbing gas using Hubble Space Telescope and Far
Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer medium resolution spectroscopy along two
high-latitude AGN sight lines (Mrk 1383 and PKS 2005-489) above and below the
Galactic Center (GC). These absorptions are most straightforwardly interpreted
as a wind emanating from the GC which does not escape from the Galaxy's
gravitational potential. Spectra of four comparison B stars are used to
identify and remove foreground velocity components from the absorption-line
profiles of O VI, N V, C II, C III, C IV, Si II, Si III, and Si IV. Two
high-velocity (HV) absorption components are detected along each AGN sight
line, three redshifted and one blueshifted. Assuming that the four HV features
trace a large-scale Galactic wind emanating from the GC, the blueshifted
absorber is falling toward the GC at a velocity of 250 +/- 20 km/s, which can
be explained by "Galactic fountain" material that originated in a bound
Galactic wind. The other three absorbers represent outflowing material; the
largest derived outflow velocity is +250 +/- 20 km/s, which is only 45% of the
velocity necessary for the absorber to escape from its current position in the
Galactic gravitational potential. All four HV absorbers are found to reach the
same maximum height above the Galactic plane (|z_max| = 12 +/- 1 kpc), implying
that they were all ejected from the GC with the same initial velocity. The
derived metallicity limits of >10-20% Solar are lower than expected for
material recently ejected from the GC unless these absorbers also contain
significant amounts of hotter gas in unseen ionization stages.