Radio structure parameters were measured from the highest quality radio maps
available for a sample of 3CR radio galaxies in the redshift range 0.15 < z <
0.65. Combined with similar data for quasars in the same redshift range, these
morphology data are used in conjunction with a quantification of the richness
of the cluster environment around these objects (the amplitude of the
galaxy-galaxy spatial covariance function, Bgg) to search for indirect evidence
of a dense intracluster medium (ICM). This is done by searching for confinement
and distortions of the radio structure that are correlated with Bgg.
Correlations between physical size and hot spot placement with Bgg show
evidence for an ICM only at z < 0.4 and there are no correlations at z > 0.4,
suggesting an epoch of z ~ 0.4 for the formation of an ICM in these Abell
richness class 0-1, FR2-selected clusters. X-ray selected clusters at
comparable redshifts, which contain FR1 type sources exclusively, are
demonstrably richer than the FR2-selected clusters found in this study. The
majority of the radio sources with high Bgg values at z < 0.4 can be described
as ``fat doubles'' or intermediate FR2/FR1s. The lack of correlation between
Bgg and bending angle or Bgg and lobe length asymmetry suggests that these
types of radio source distortion are caused by something other than interaction
with a dense ICM. Thus, a large bending angle cannot be used as an unambiguous
indicator of a rich cluster around powerful radio sources. These results
support the hypothesis made in Paper 1 that cluster quasars fade to become
FR2s, then FR1s, on a timescale of 0.9 Gyrs (for H0 = 50 km s^-1 Mpc^-1).