The Nijmegen extended-sft-core ESC08c model for the baryon-baryon (BB)
interactions of the SU(3) flavor-octet of baryons ($N, \Lambda, \Sigma$, and
$\Xi$) is presented. In this first of a series of papers, the NN results are
reported in detail. In the spirit of the Yukawa-approach to the nuclear force
problem, the interactions are studied from the meson-exchange picture
viewpoint, using generalized soft-core Yukawa-functions. These interactions are
supplemented with (i) multiple-gluon-exchange, and (ii) structural effects due
to the quark-core of the baryons. The extended-soft-core (ESC) meson-exchange
interactions consist of local- and non-local-potentials due to ((i)
One-boson-exchanges (OBE, which are the members of nonets of pseudoscalar ,
vector, scalar, and axial-vector mesons, (ii) diffractive (i.e. multiple-gluon)
exchanges, (iii) two pseudoscalar exchange (PS-PS), and (iv)
meson-pair-exchange (MPE). The OBE- and MPE-vertices are regulated by gaussian
form factors producing potentials with a soft behavior near the origin. The
assignment of the cut-off masses for the BBM-vertices is dependent on the
SU(3)-classification of the exchanged mesons for OBE, and a similar scheme for
MPE. The simultaneous fit of the ESC-models to the NN- and YN-scattering data
achieved excellent results for the NN, YN, and favorable properties for the
$\Lambda\Lambda$ and $\Xi N$ systems. In the case of ESC08c, the version of
this paper, the results are: (i) For the selected 4313 pp and np scattering
data ($ 0 \leq T_{lab} \leq 350$ MeV), the model achieved $\chi^2/N_{data} =
1.08$. (ii) The deuteron binding energy and all NN low energy parameters are
fitted very nicely. (iii) The YN-data are described also very well with
$\chi^/N_{data} = 1.09$. (iv) The model predicts a bound $\Xi N(^3S_1,I=1)$
states with binding energy 1.56 MeV.