Properties of the quartz crystal blank of a resonator is assumed homogeneous,
uniform, and perfect in design, manufacturing, and applications. As end
products, quartz crystal resonators are frequently exposed to gases and liquids
which can cause surface damage and internal degradation of blanks under
increasingly hostile conditions. The combination of service conditions and
manufacturing process including chemical etching and polishing can inevitably
modify the surface of quartz crystal blanks with changes of material
properties, raising the question of what will happen to vibrations of quartz
crystal resonators of thickness-shear type if such modifications to blanks are
to be evaluated for sensitive applications. Such questions have been
encountered in other materials and structures with property variations either
on purpose or as the effect of environmental or natural processes commonly
referred to as functionally graded materials, or FGMs. Analyses have been done
in applications as part of studies on FGMs in structural as well as in acoustic
wave device applications. A procedure based on series solutions has been
developed in the evaluation of frequency changes and features in an infinite
quartz crystal plate of AT-cut with the symmetric material variation pattern
given in a cosine function with the findings that the vibration modes are now
closely coupled. These results can be used in the evaluation of surface damage
and corrosion of quartz crystal blanks of resonators in sensor applications or
development of new structures of resonators.