We analyze data from simulations of 2D and 3D glass-forming liquids using a
correlation function defined in terms of a memory function with a negative
inverse power-law tail. The self-intermediate function and the autocorrelation
functions of pressure and shear stress are analyzed; the obtained fits are very
good, at least as good as with a stretched exponential. In contrast to the
stretched exponential, the key shape parameter--the exponent of the power-law
tail--seems to be the same for all three correlation functions. It decreases
from a value around 2 at high temperature to a value close to 1.58 (2D), 1.50
(3D) at low temperatures. The amplitude of the tail increases towards towards a
value corresponding to a diverging relaxation time, which is related to
anomalous diffusion. On the other hand, careful analysis of the long time
behavior in the case of suggests that the memory function is cut-off
exponentially, which avoids the divergence of the relaxation time. Repeating
the fits with an exponential cut-off included indicates that the power-law
exponent is in fact independent of temperature and close to 1.58/1.50 over the
whole range. Instead of the divergence, a fragile-to-strong crossover in the
dynamics, estimated to occur around $T=0.40$ for the 3D Kob-Andersen system.
Another key parameter of the fitting procedure may be interpreted as a
short-time rate, the amount of decorrelation that occurs in a fixed, relatively
short time interval (compared to the alpha time). This quantity is observed to
have a near-Arrhenius temperature dependence, while its wavenumber dependence
seems to be diffusive ($q^{-2}$) over a wider range than that of the relaxation
itself, a further indication that this "bare relaxation rate" is simpler than
the full dynamics.