Using the new Cosmic Origins Spectrograph (COS) on the {\it Hubble Space
Telescope (HST)}, we obtained moderate-resolution, high signal/noise
ultraviolet spectra of HD 209458 and its exoplanet HD 209458b during transit,
both orbital quadratures, and secondary eclipse. We compare transit spectra
with spectra obtained at non-transit phases to identify spectral features due
to the exoplanet's expanding atmosphere. We find that the mean flux decreased
by $7.8\pm 1.3$% for the C II 1334.5323\AA\ and 1335.6854\AA\ lines and by
$8.2\pm 1.4$% for the Si III 1206.500\AA\ line during transit compared to
non-transit times in the velocity interval --50 to +50 km s$^{-1}$. Comparison
of the C II and Si III line depths and transit/non-transit line ratios shows
deeper absorption features near --10 and +15 km s$^{-1}$ and less certain
features near --40 and +30--70 km s$^{-1}$, but future observations are needed
to verify this first detection of velocity structure in the expanding
atmosphere of an exoplanet. Our results for the C II lines and the
non-detection of Si IV 1394.76\AA\ absorption are in agreement with
\citet{Vidal-Madjar2004}, but we find absorption during transit in the Si III
line contrary to the earlier result. The $8\pm 1$% obscuration of the star
during transit is far larger than the 1.5% obscuration by the exoplanet's disk.
Absorption during transit at velocities between --50 and +50 km s$^{-1}$ in the
C II and Si III lines requires high-velocity ion absorbers, but models that
assume that the absorbers are high-temperature thermal ions are inconsistent
with the COS spectra. Assuming hydrodynamic model values for the gas
temperature and outflow velocity at the limb of the outflow as seen in the C II
lines, we find mass-loss rates in the range (8--40)$\times 10^{10}$ g s$^{-1}$.