Quantifying interaction strength between species is of interest in food web
studies for understanding population dynamics. Theory has run ahead of
experiment in solving equations describing ecological systems (the
Lotka-Volterra equations, for example). Modeling approaches depend upon
quantitative knowledge of interaction strengths among species, yet there are
few methods available for estimating strengths of interactions between species,
especially in the field. Competition and predation in fishes is traditionally
studied with a variety of methods, most requiring extensive sampling to
determine stock densities or extensive stomach content or isotope analysis.
Average relative weight of fish species in an ecosystem can usually be
accurately determined with much smaller sample sizes than required for accurate
determination of stock densities. Correlations of mean annual relative weights
may be used to test hypotheses and establish interaction strengths regarding
competition and predation among fishes. The trends are sufficiently suggestive
to use a strong positive correlation as supporting evidence of competition and
possibly indicative of the magnitude of competition if other evidence such as
analysis of stomach contents is also present. Likewise, a strong negative
correlation might be interpreted as relevant when forming a hypothesis of
predation and as supporting evidence of the magnitude of predation if other
evidence is also present. In systems where regular weight and length survey
data are available, this method can suggest the likely strength of competitive
and predatory relationships and may be more cost effective than stomach content
or isotope analysis.