In a series of recent papers Barndorff-Nielsen and Shephard introduce an
attractive class of continuous time stochastic volatility models for financial
assets where the volatility processes are functions of positive
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck(OU) processes. This models are known to be substantially
more flexible than Gaussian based models. One current problem of this approach
is the unavailability of a tractable exact analysis of likelihood based
stochastic volatility models for the returns of log prices of stocks.
  With this point in mind, the likelihood models of Barndorff-Nielsen and
Shephard are viewed as members of a much larger class of models. That is
likelihoods based on n conditionally independent Normal random variables whose
mean and variance are representable as linear functionals of a common
unobserved Poisson random measure. The analysis of these models is facilitated
by applying the methods in James (2005, 2002), in particular an Esscher type
transform of Poisson random measures; in conjunction with a special case of the
Weber-Sonine formula. It is shown that the marginal likelihood may be expressed
in terms of a multidimensional Fourier-cosine transform. This yields tractable
forms of the likelihood and also allows a full Bayesian posterior analysis of
the integrated volatility process. A general formula for the posterior density
of the log price given the observed data is derived, which could potentially
have applications to option pricing. We extend the models to include leverage
effects in section 5. It is shown that inference does not necessarily require
simulation of random measures. Rather, classical numerical integration can be
used in the most general cases.