We compute the patterns of $\gamma$-ray emission due to curvature radiation
in dissipative pulsar magnetospheres. Our ultimate goal is to construct
macrophysical models that are able to reproduce the observed $\gamma$-ray
light-curve phenomenology recently published in the Second Fermi Pulsar
Catalog. We apply specific forms of Ohm's law on the open field lines using a
broad range for the macroscopic conductivity values that result in solutions
ranging, from near-vacuum to near Force-Free. Using these solutions, we
generate model $\gamma$-ray light curves by calculating realistic trajectories
and Lorentz factors of radiating particles, under the influence of both the
accelerating electric fields and curvature radiation-reaction. We further
constrain our models using the observed dependence of the phase-lags between
the radio and $\gamma$-ray emission on the $\gamma$-ray peak-separation. We
perform a statistical comparison of our model radio-lag vs peak-separation
diagram and the one obtained for the Fermi standard pulsars. We find that for
models of uniform conductivity over the entire open magnetic field line region,
agreement with observations favors higher values of this parameter. We find,
however, significant improvement in fitting the data with models that employ a
hybrid form of conductivity; specifically, infinite conductivity interior to
the light-cylinder and high but finite conductivity on the outside. In these
models the $\gamma$-ray emission is produced in regions near the equatorial
current sheet but modulated by the local physical properties. These models have
radio-lags near the observed values and statistically best reproduce the
observed light-curve phenomenology. Additionally, these models produce GeV
photon cut-off energies.