The morphology, kinematics and entrainment mechanism of the HH 46/47
molecular outflow were studied using new ALMA Cycle 0 observations. Results
show that the blue and red lobes are strikingly different. We argue that these
differences are partly due to contrasting ambient densities that result in
different wind components having a distinct effect on the entrained gas in each
lobe. A 29-point mosaic, covering the two lobes at an angular resolution of
about 3", detected outflow emission at much higher velocities than previous
observations, resulting in significantly higher estimates of the outflow
momentum and kinetic energy than previous studies of this source, using the
CO(1-0) line. The morphology and the kinematics of the gas in the blue lobe are
consistent with models of outflow entrainment by a wide-angle wind, and a
simple model describes the observed structures in the position-velocity diagram
and the velocity-integrated intensity maps. The red lobe exhibits a more
complex structure, and there is evidence that this lobe is entrained by a
wide-angle wind and a collimated episodic wind. Three major clumps along the
outflow axis show velocity distribution consistent with prompt entrainment by
different bow shocks formed by periodic mass ejection episodes which take place
every few hundred years. Position-velocity cuts perpendicular to the outflow
cavity show gradients where the velocity increases towards the outflow axis,
inconsistent with outflow rotation. Additionally, we find evidence for the
existence of a small outflow driven by a binary companion.