We are looking for the agent-based treatment of the financial markets
considering necessity to build bridges between microscopic, agent based, and
macroscopic, phenomenological modeling. The acknowledgment that agent-based
modeling framework, which may provide qualitative and quantitative
understanding of the financial markets, is very ambiguous emphasizes the
exceptional value of well defined analytically tractable agent systems. Herding
as one of the behavior peculiarities considered in the behavioral finance is
the main property of the agent interactions we deal with in this contribution.
Looking for the consentaneous agent-based and macroscopic approach we combine
two origins of the noise: exogenous one, related to the information flow, and
endogenous one, arising form the complex stochastic dynamics of agents. As a
result we propose a three state agent-based herding model of the financial
markets. From this agent-based model we derive a set of stochastic differential
equations, which describes underlying macroscopic dynamics of agent population
and log price in the financial markets. The obtained solution is then subjected
to the exogenous noise, which shapes instantaneous return fluctuations. We test
both Gaussian and q-Gaussian noise as a source of the short term fluctuations.
The resulting model of the return in the financial markets with the same set of
parameters reproduces empirical probability and spectral densities of absolute
return observed in New York, Warsaw and NASDAQ OMX Vilnius Stock Exchanges. Our
result confirms the prevalent idea in behavioral finance that herding
interactions may be dominant over agent rationality and contribute towards
bubble formation.