Drawdowns are essential aspects of risk assessment in investment management.
They offer a more natural measure of real market risks than the variance or
other cumulants of daily (or some other fixed time scale) distributions of
returns. Here, we extend considerably our previous analysis by analyzing the
major financial indices, the major currencies, gold, the twenty largest U.S.
companies in terms of capitalisation as well as nine others chosen randomly. We
find for the major financial markets that approximately 98% of the
distributions of drawdowns is well-represented by a stretched exponential while
the largest drawdowns are occurring with a significantly larger rate than
predicted by the stretched exponential: the largest drops thus constitute
genuine outliers. This is confirmed by extensive testing on surrogate data,
which unambiguously show that large stock market drops (and crashes) cannot be
accounted for by the distribution of returns characterising the smaller market
moves. They thus belong to a different class of their own and call for a
specific amplification mechanism. A similar scenario is found for the majority
of the company stocks analysed. Drawups exhibit a similar behavior in only
about half the markets that we examined. In the spirit of Bacon in Novum
Organum about 400 years ago, ``Errors of Nature, Sports and Monsters correct
the understanding in regard to ordinary things, and reveal general forms. For
whoever knows the ways of Nature will more easily notice her deviations; and,
on the other hand, whoever knows her deviations will more accurately describe
her ways,'' we propose that outliers reveal fundamental properties of the stock
market.