In this work we study the individual contribution to diffuse $\gamma$-ray
emission from the secondary products in hadronic interactions generated by
cosmic rays (CRs), in addition to the contribution of $\pi^0$ decay via the
decay mode $\pi^0 \to 2\gamma$. For that purpose we employ the Monte Carlo
particle collision code DPMJET3.04 to determine the multiplicity spectra of
various secondary particles with $\gamma$'s as the final decay state, that
result from inelastic collisions between cosmic-ray protons and Helium nuclei
and the interstellar medium with standard composition. We thus derive an
easy-to-use $\gamma$-ray production matrix for cosmic ray up to about 10 PeV,
that can be used to interpret the $\gamma$-ray spectra of diffuse galactic
emission and supernova remnants (SNR).
  We apply the $\gamma$-ray production matrix to the GeV excess in diffuse
galactic $\gamma$-rays that was seen with EGRET. Although the non-$\pi^0$
contributions to the total emission have a different spectrum than the
$\pi^0$-decay component, they are insufficient to explain the GeV excess.
  We also test the hypothesis that the TeV-band $\gamma$-ray emission of the
shell-type SNR RX J1713-3946, that was observed with HESS, is caused by
shock-accelerated hadronic cosmic rays. This scenario implies a very high
efficacy of particle acceleration, so the particle spectrum is expected to
continuously harden toward high energies on account of cosmic-ray modification
of the shock. Using the $\chi^2$ statistic we find that a continuously
softening spectrum is strongly preferred, in contrast to expectations. A
hardening spectrum has about 1% probability to explain the HESS data, but then
only if a hard cut-off at 50-100 TeV is imposed on the particle spectrum.