We present an initial analysis of AKARI 18um-selected galaxies using all 9
photometric bands at 2-24um available in the InfraRed Camera (IRC), in order to
demonstrate new capabilities of AKARI cosmological surveys. We detected 72
sources at 18um in an area of 50.2 arcmin^2 in the AKARI/IRC monitor field
towards the North Ecliptic Pole (NEP). From this sample, 25 galaxies with
probable redshifts z>~ 0.5 are selected with a single colour cut (N2-N3>0.1)
for a detailed SED analysis with ground-based BVRi'z'JK data. Using an SED
radiative transfer model of starbursts covering the wavelength range UV --
submm, we derive photometric redshifts from the optical-MIR SEDs of
18um-selected galaxies. From the best-fit SED models, we show that the IRC
all-band photometry is capable of tracing the steep rise in flux at the blue
side of the PAH 6.2um emission feature. This indicates that the IRC all-band
photometry is useful to constrain the redshift of infrared galaxies,
specifically for dusty galaxies with a less prominent 4000A break. Also, we
find that the flux dip between the PAH 7.7 and 11.2um emission feature is
recognizable in the observed SEDs of galaxies at z~1. By using such a colour
anomaly due to the PAH and silicate absorption features, unique samples of
ULIRGs at z~1, `silicate-break' galaxies, can be constructed from large
cosmological surveys of AKARI towards the NEP, i.e. the NEP-Deep and NEP-Wide
survey. This pilot study suggests the possibility of detecting many interesting
galaxy properties in the NEP-Deep and Wide surveys, such as a systematic
difference in SEDs between high- and low-z ULIRGs, and a large variation of the
PAH inter-band strength ratio in galaxies at high redshifts. [abridged]