The discrete-time GARCH methodology which has had such a profound influence
on the modelling of heteroscedasticity in time series is intuitively well
motivated in capturing many `stylized facts' concerning financial series, and
is now almost routinely used in a wide range of situations, often including
some where the data are not observed at equally spaced intervals of time.
However, such data is more appropriately analyzed with a continuous-time model
which preserves the essential features of the successful GARCH paradigm. One
possible such extension is the diffusion limit of Nelson, but this is
problematic in that the discrete-time GARCH model and its continuous-time
diffusion limit are not statistically equivalent. As an alternative,
Kl\"{u}ppelberg et al. recently introduced a continuous-time version of the
GARCH (the `COGARCH' process) which is constructed directly from a background
driving L\'{e}vy process. The present paper shows how to fit this model to
irregularly spaced time series data using discrete-time GARCH methodology, by
approximating the COGARCH with an embedded sequence of discrete-time GARCH
series which converges to the continuous-time model in a strong sense (in
probability, in the Skorokhod metric), as the discrete approximating grid grows
finer. This property is also especially useful in certain other applications,
such as options pricing. The way is then open to using, for the COGARCH,
similar statistical techniques to those already worked out for GARCH models and
to illustrate this, an empirical investigation using stock index data is
carried out.