We present 3-band HST imaging of three z</=0.1 compact symmetric objects
(CSOs): 4C 31.04, 1946+708 and 1146+596. These objects were chosen on the basis
of proximity to Earth as well as HI 21 cm absorption. The inner H-band
isophotes of these galaxies are well fit by "nuker" models, typical of nearby
ellipticals. Each shows a significant flattening in the isophotal profile at
radii ~0.5", as well as variations in ellipticity and PA. However, neither is
uncommon for elliptical galaxies. All three show modest departures from nuker
models at radii of 1-5 $h_{60}^{-1}$ kpc. Each shows large, well distributed
dust features, which are somewhat concentrated in the nuclear regions in
features which resemble disks or tori. The amount of dust in these galaxies is
about 10 times higher than normal for ellipticals and radio galaxy hosts. The
nuclear dust disks tend to be oriented roughly perpendicular to the radio axis.
One galaxy, 4C31.04, exhibits bright nuclear regions well-aligned with the
radio axis, while another, 1146+596, shows a significant near-IR excess
resembling a stellar bar along its dust disk. The combination of outwardly
normal isophotal profiles with significant variations in PA and ellipticity is
consistent with the host galaxies being relatively recent merger remnants, with
the mergers having occurred >/= 10^8 years ago. Such a merger could have
"triggered" the current activity in these objects, but our data require a
significant time delay between the merger and the onset of nuclear activity.
However, these data are also consistent with the hypothesis that the onset of
nuclear activity in radio galaxies is due to relatively minor "feeding" events
and/or the formation of "bars within bars", which would disturb the internal
kinematics only slightly.