We report the discovery of 87 new T dwarfs uncovered with the Wide-field
Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) and three brown dwarfs with extremely red
near-infrared colors that exhibit characteristics of both L and T dwarfs. Two
of the new T dwarfs are likely binaries with L7+/-1 primaries and mid-type T
secondaries. In addition, our follow-up program has confirmed 10 previously
identified T dwarfs and four photometrically-selected L and T dwarf candidates
in the literature. This sample, along with the previous WISE discoveries,
triples the number of known brown dwarfs with spectral types later than T5.
Using the WISE All-Sky Source Catalog we present updated color-color and
color-type diagrams for all the WISE-discovered T and Y dwarfs. Near-infrared
spectra of the new discoveries are presented, along with spectral
classifications. To accommodate later T dwarfs we have modified the integrated
flux method of determining spectral indices to instead use the median flux.
Furthermore, a newly defined J-narrow index differentiates the early-type Y
dwarfs from late-type T dwarfs based on the J-band continuum slope. The K/J
indices for this expanded sample show that 32% of late-type T dwarfs have
suppressed K-band flux and are blue relative to the spectral standards, while
only 11% are redder than the standards. Comparison of the Y/J and K/J index to
models suggests diverse atmospheric conditions and supports the possible
re-emergence of clouds after the L/T transition. We also discuss peculiar brown
dwarfs and candidates that were found not to be substellar, including two Young
Stellar Objects and two Active Galactic Nuclei. The coolest WISE-discovered
brown dwarfs are the closest of their type and will remain the only sample of
their kind for many years to come.