A challenging problem in the study of complex systems is that of resolving,
without prior information, the emergent, mesoscopic organization determined by
groups of units whose dynamical activity is more strongly correlated internally
than with the rest of the system. The existing techniques to filter
correlations are not explicitly oriented towards identifying such modules and
can suffer from an unavoidable information loss. A promising alternative is
that of employing community detection techniques developed in network theory.
Unfortunately, this approach has focused predominantly on replacing network
data with correlation matrices, a procedure that tends to be intrinsically
biased due to its inconsistency with the null hypotheses underlying the
existing algorithms. Here we introduce, via a consistent redefinition of null
models based on random matrix theory, the appropriate correlation-based
counterparts of the most popular community detection techniques. Our methods
can filter out both unit-specific noise and system-wide dependencies, and the
resulting communities are internally correlated and mutually anti-correlated.
We also implement multiresolution and multifrequency approaches revealing
hierarchically nested sub-communities with `hard' cores and `soft' peripheries.
We apply our techniques to several financial time series and identify
mesoscopic groups of stocks which are irreducible to a standard, sectorial
taxonomy, detect `soft stocks' that alternate between communities, and discuss
implications for portfolio optimization and risk management.