`Wedgebox' plots constructed by plotting the di-electron invariant mass
versus the di-muon invariant mass from pp -> e^+e^- mu^+ mu^- + missing energy
signature LHC events. Data sets of such events are obtained across the MSSM
input parameter space in event-generator simulations, including cuts designed
to remove SM backgrounds. Their study reveals several general features:
(1)Regions in the MSSM input parameter space where a sufficient number of
events are expected so as to be able to construct a clear wedgebox plot are
delineated. (2)The presence of box shapes on a wedgebox plot either indicates
the presence of heavy Higgs bosons decays or restricts the location to a quite
small region of low \mu and M_2 values \lsim 200 GeV, a region denoted as the
`lower island'. In this region, wedgebox plots can be quite complicated and
change in pattern rather quickly as one moves around in the (\mu, M_2) plane.
(3)Direct neutralino pair production from an intermediate Z^{0*} may only
produce a wedge-shape since only \widetilde{\chi}_2^0\widetilde{\chi}_3^0
decays can contribute significantly. (4)A double-wedge or
wedge-protruding-from-a-box pattern on a wedgebox plot, which results from
combining a variety of MSSM production processes, yields three distinct
observed endpoints, almost always attributable to \widetilde{\chi}_{2,3,4}^0
\to \widetilde{\chi}_1^0 \ell^+\ell^- decays, which can be utilized to
determine a great deal of information about the neutralino and slepton mass
spectra and related MSSM input parameters. Wedge and double-wedge patterns are
seen in wedgebox plots in another region of higher \mu and M_2 values, denoted
as the`upper island.' Here the pattern is simpler and more stable as one moves
across the (\mu, M_2) input parameter space.