Applications involving telecommunication call data records, web pages, online
transactions, medical records, stock markets, climate warning systems, etc.,
necessitate efficient management and processing of such massively exponential
amount of data from diverse sources. De-duplication or Intelligent Compression
in streaming scenarios for approximate identification and elimination of
duplicates from such unbounded data stream is a greater challenge given the
real-time nature of data arrival. Stable Bloom Filters (SBF) addresses this
problem to a certain extent. .
  In this work, we present several novel algorithms for the problem of
approximate detection of duplicates in data streams. We propose the Reservoir
Sampling based Bloom Filter (RSBF) combining the working principle of reservoir
sampling and Bloom Filters. We also present variants of the novel Biased
Sampling based Bloom Filter (BSBF) based on biased sampling concepts. We also
propose a randomized load balanced variant of the sampling Bloom Filter
approach to efficiently tackle the duplicate detection. In this work, we thus
provide a generic framework for de-duplication using Bloom Filters. Using
detailed theoretical analysis we prove analytical bounds on the false positive
rate, false negative rate and convergence rate of the proposed structures. We
exhibit that our models clearly outperform the existing methods. We also
demonstrate empirical analysis of the structures using real-world datasets (3
million records) and also with synthetic datasets (1 billion records) capturing
various input distributions.