Why do a market's prices move up or down? Claims about causes are made
without actual information, and accepted or dismissed based upon poor or
non-existent evidence. Here we investigate the price movements that ended with
Apple stock closing at \$500.00 on January 18, 2013. There is a ready
explanation for this price movement: market manipulation by those who sold
stock options, who stood to directly benefit from this closing price. Indeed,
one web commentator predicted this otherwise unlikely event publicly. This
explanation was subsequently dismissed by press articles that claim that stock
prices end near such round numbers based upon legitimate hedging activity. But
how can we know? We show that the accepted model that points to hedging as the
driving cause of prices is not quantitatively consistent with the price
movement on that day. The price moved upward too quickly over a period in which
the hedgers' position would require selling rather than buying. Under these
conditions hedgers would have driven the price away from the strike price
rather than toward it. We also show that a long published theory of the role of
hedging is incomplete mathematically, and that the correct theory results in
much weaker price movements. This evidence substantially weakens the case of
those who claim hedging as cause of anomalous market price movements. The
explanation that market manipulation is responsible for the final close cannot
be dismissed based upon unsubstantiated, even invalid, hedging claims. Such
proffered explanations shield potential illegal activity from further inquiry
even though the claims behind those explanations have not been demonstrated.