Litter decomposition is an important process in the global carbon cycle. It
accounts for most of the heterotrophic soil respiration and results in
formation of more stable soil organic carbon (SOC) which is the largest
terrestrial carbon stock. Litter decomposition may induce remarkable feedbacks
to climate change because it is a climate-dependent process. To investigate the
global patterns of litter decomposition, we developed a description of this
process and tested the validity of this description using a large set of foliar
litter mass loss measurements (nearly 10 000 data points derived from
approximately 70 000 litter bags). We applied the Markov chain Monte Carlo
method to estimate uncertainty in the parameter values and results of our model
called Yasso07. The model appeared globally applicable. It estimated the
effects of litter type (plant species) and climate on mass loss with little
systematic error over the first 10 decomposition years, using only initial
litter chemistry, air temperature and precipitation as input variables.
Illustrative of the global variability in litter mass loss rates, our example
calculations showed that a typical conifer litter had 68% of its initial mass
still remaining after two decomposition years in tundra while a deciduous
litter had only 15% remaining in the tropics. Uncertainty in these estimates, a
direct result of the uncertainty of the parameter values of the model, varied
according to the distribution of the litter bag data among climate conditions
and ranged from 2% in tundra to 4% in the tropics. This reliability was
adequate to use the model and distinguish the effects of even small differences
in litter quality or climate conditions on litter decomposition as
statistically significant.