Low luminosity radio-loud active galactic nuclei (AGN) are generally found in
massive red elliptical galaxies, where they are thought to be powered through
gas accretion from their surrounding hot halos in a radiatively inefficient
manner. These AGN are often referred to as "low-excitation" radio galaxies
(LERGs). When radio-loud AGN are found in galaxies with a young stellar
population and active star formation, they are usually high-power
radiatively-efficient radio AGN ("high-excitation", HERG). Using a sample of
low-redshift radio galaxies identified within the Sloan Digital Sky Survey
(SDSS), we determine the fraction of galaxies that host a radio-loud AGN,
$f_{RL}$, as a function of host galaxy stellar mass, $M_*$, star formation
rate, color (defined by the 4000 $\angstrom$ break strength), radio luminosity
and excitation state (HERG/LERG).
  We find the following: 1. LERGs are predominantly found in red galaxies. 2.
The radio-loud AGN fraction of LERGs hosted by galaxies of any color follows a
$f^{LE}_{RL} \propto M^{2.5}_*$ power law. 3. The fraction of red galaxies
hosting a LERG decreases strongly for increasing radio luminosity. For massive
blue galaxies this is not the case. 4. The fraction of green galaxies hosting a
LERG is lower than that of either red or blue galaxies, at all radio
luminosities. 5. The radio-loud AGN fraction of HERGs hosted by galaxies of any
color follows a $f^{HE}_{RL} \propto M^{1.5}_*$ power law. 6. HERGs have a
strong preference to be hosted by green or blue galaxies. 7. The fraction of
galaxies hosting a HERG shows only a weak dependence on radio luminosity cut.
8. For both HERGs and LERGs, the hosting probability of blue galaxies shows a
strong dependence on star formation rate. This is not observed in galaxies of a
different color.[abridged]