Deep optical images have been gathered for a nearly complete sample of radio
galaxies from the Revised 3rd Cambridge (3CR) Catalog in the redshift range
0.15 < z < 0.65. Total and nuclear magnitudes and colors have been extracted.
The richness of the galaxy clustering environment has also been quantified by
calculating the amplitude of the galaxy-galaxy spatial covariance function
(B_gg), showing overdensities ranging up to Abell class 0-1 clusters. These
optical data are compared to similar data from an existing sample of radio-loud
quasars in the same redshift range for the purpose of determining the
relationship between radio galaxies and quasars. In the range 0.15 < z < 0.4,
we find that quasars and radio galaxies have significantly different
environments in that only radio galaxies are found in rich cluster
environments. This comparison appears to rule out the hypothesis that all
quasars are radio galaxies viewed from a particular angle at the 97% confidence
level (99.6% confidence level if N-galaxies are considered quasars). The
existence of quasars in clusters at z > 0.4 supports the hypothesis that some
radio-loud quasars may dim with time and evolve into radio galaxies with an
e-folding time of ~0.9 Gyr. A compatible scenario is presented for this
evolution in which the quasar dims due to the absence of low velocity
interactions between the quasar host and companion galaxies which trigger
quasar activity and/or a diminishing fuel supply caused by the more effective
gas ``sweeping'' of a growing intracluster medium.