In this paper we estimate the living carbon lost from Ecuador's mangrove
forests since the advent of export-focused shrimp aquaculture. We use remote
sensing techniques to delineate the extent of mangroves and aquaculture at
approximately decadal periods since the arrival of aquaculture in each
Ecuadorian estuary. We then spatiotemporally calculate the carbon values of the
mangrove forests and estimate the amount of carbon lost due to direct
displacement by aquaculture. Additionally, we calculate the new carbon stocks
generated due to mangrove reforestation or afforestation. This research
introduces time and land use / land cover change (LUCC) into the tropical
forest carbon literature and examines forest carbon loss at a higher
spatiotemporal resolution than in many earlier analyses. We find that 80%, or
7,014,517 t of the living carbon lost in Ecuadorian mangrove forests can be
attributed to direct displacement of mangrove forests by shrimp aquaculture. We
also find that Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) compliant
carbon grids within Ecuador's estuaries overestimate living carbon levels in
estuaries where substantial LUCC has occurred. By approaching the mangrove
forest carbon loss question from a LUCC perspective, these findings allow for
tropical nations and other intervention agents to prioritize and target a
limited set of land transitions that likely drive the majority of carbon
losses. This singular cause of transition has implications for programs that
attempt to offset or limit future forest carbon losses and place value on
forest carbon or other forest good and services.