Ni\'eb\'e is a food leguminous plant cultivated in tropical Africa for its
seeds rich in proteins. The main problem setted by its production is the
conservation of harvests. In the fields as in the stocks, the seeds are
destroyed by pests (bruchids). These bruchids are always associated with
several entomophagous species of hymenoptera. Four entomophagous species were
listed : an egg parasitoid (U lariophaga Stephan), and three solitary larval
and pupal ectoparasitoids (D. Basalis Rondoni, Pteromalidae; E. vuilleti
Crawford and E. orientalis Crawford, Eupelmidae). The survey of the populations
shows that at the beginning of storage, E orientalis is the most abundant
specie (72 %) whereas E. vuilleti and D. Basalis respectively represent 12 %
and 16 % of the hymenoptera. During storage, the E orientalis population
decreases gradually and it disappears completely in less than two months after
the beginning of storage. E. Vuilleti population becomes gradually more
important than D. basalis population which regress until less than 10 % of the
emerging parasitoids. E vuilleti adopts ovicide and larvicide behaviour against
D. Basalis. This behaviour explains its population regression inside granaries.
If the aggressive behaviour of this Eupelmidae is a constant, that could also
explain the disappearance of E orientalis. However if this species is
maintained in stocks, it would be an effective control agent of bruchids
according to their parasitic capacities. This study shows that ovicide and
larvicide behaviour of E vuilleti is not expressed against E orientalis. When
the females have exclusively the hosts already parasitized by E orientalis,
they do not lay eggs. The disappearance of E orientalis could not thus be
explained by the presence of E. vuilleti.