When the rare earth mononitrides (RENs) first burst onto the scientific scene
in the middle of last century, there were feverish dreams that their strong
magnetic moment would afford a wide range of applications. For decades research
was frustrated by poor stoichiometry and the ready reaction of the materials in
ambient conditions, and only recently have these impediments finally been
overcome by advances in thin film fabrication with ultra-high vacuum based
growth technology. Currently, the field of research into the RENs is growing
rapidly, motivated by the materials demands of proposed electronic and
spintronic devices. Both semiconducting and ferromagnetic properties have been
established in some of the RENs which thus attract interest for the potential
to exploit the spin of charge carriers in semiconductor technologies for both
fundamental and applied science. In this review, we take stock of where
progress has occurred within the last decade in both theoretical and
experimental fields, and which has led to the point where a proof-of-concept
spintronic device based on RENs has already been demonstrated. The article is
organized into three major parts. First, we describe the epitaxial growth of
REN thin films and their structural properties, with an emphasis on their
prospective spintronic applications. Then, we conduct a critical review of the
different advanced theoretical calculations utilised to determine both the
electronic structure and the origins of the magnetism in these compounds. The
rest of the review is devoted to the recent experimental results on optical,
electrical and magnetic properties and their relation to current theoretical
descriptions. These results are discussed particularly with regard to the
controversy about the exact nature of the magnetic state and conduction
processes in the RENs.