Interest in understanding the interplay between noise and the response of a
non-linear device cuts across disciplinary boundaries. It is as relevant for
unmasking the dynamics of neurons in noisy environments as it is for designing
reliable nanoscale logic circuit elements and sensors. Most studies of noise in
non-linear devices are limited to either time-correlated noise with a
Lorentzian spectrum (of which the white noise is a limiting case) or just white
noise. We use analytical theory and numerical simulations to study the impact
of the more ubiquitous "natural" noise with a 1/f frequency spectrum.
Specifically, we study the impact of the 1/f noise on a leaky integrate and
fire model of a neuron. The impact of noise is considered on two quantities of
interest to neuron function: The spike count Fano factor and the speed of
neuron response to a small step-like stimulus. For the perfect (non-leaky)
integrate and fire model, we show that the Fano factor can be expressed as an
integral over noise spectrum weighted by a (low pass) filter function. This
result elucidates the connection between low frequency noise and disorder in
neuron dynamics. We compare our results to experimental data of single neurons
in vivo, and show how the 1/f noise model provides much better agreement than
the usual approximations based on Lorentzian noise. The low frequency noise,
however, complicates the case for information coding scheme based on interspike
intervals by introducing variability in the neuron response time. On a positive
note, the neuron response time to a step stimulus is, remarkably, nearly
optimal in the presence of 1/f noise. An explanation of this effect elucidates
how the brain can take advantage of noise to prime a subset of the neurons to
respond almost instantly to sudden stimuli.