In warped 5D models of hierarchy and flavor, the first Kaluza-Klein (KK)
state of the graviton $G_1$ is heavy enough to decay into a photon and its
first KK mode $\gamma_1$ on-shell: $G_1 \to \gamma_1 \gamma$. The
volume-suppression of the rate for this process [relative to 2-body decay into
heavy Standard Model (SM) final states ($W/Z/t/H$)] may be partially
compensated by the simplicity of the photon final state. We consider $\gamma_1
\to W^+W^-$, with a typical O(1) branching fraction, and focus on the
semi-leptonic final state $W(\to jj) W(\to \ell, \nu)$ with $\ell=e,\mu$. The
SM background originates from $2\to 3$ parton processes and is relatively
suppressed compared to those for 2-body decays of $G_1$. Moreover, to further
reduce the background, we can impose an invariant mass window cut for
$\gamma_1$ (in addition to that for $G_1$) in this new channel. We emphasize
that this "photon cascade" decay probes a different combination of (bulk and
brane) interactions of the KK states than the decays into two heavy SM states.
Thus, in combination with other channels, the cascade decay could be used to
extract the individual underlying geometric parameters. The $3\sigma$ reach for
$G_1$ in our channel is up to 1.5 TeV at the high luminosity (14 TeV) LHC, and
can be extended to about 4 TeV, at $5\sigma$, at a future 100 TeV hadron
collider. Along the way, we point out the novel feature that the invariant mass
distribution of KK graviton decay products becomes skewed from the Breit-Wigner
form, due to the KK graviton coupling growing with energy.