We present an X-ray imaging and spectroscopic study of a partially occulted
C7.7 flare on 2003 April 24 observed by RHESSI that accompanied a prominence
eruption observed by TRACE. (1) The activation and rise of the prominence
occurs during the preheating phase of the flare. The initial X-ray emission
appears as a single coronal source at one leg of the prominence and it then
splits into a double source. Such a source splitting happens three times, each
coinciding with an increased X-ray flux and plasma temperature, suggestive of
fast reconnection in a localized current sheet and an enhanced energy release
rate. In the late stage of this phase, the prominence displays a helical
structure. These observations are consistent with the tether-cutting and/or
kink instability model for triggering solar eruptions. (2) The eruption of the
prominence takes place during the flare impulsive phase. Since then, there
appear signatures predicted by the classical CSHKP model of two-ribbon flares
occurring in a vertical current sheet trailing an eruption. These signatures
include an EUV cusp and current-sheet-like feature (or ridge) above it. There
is also X-ray emission along the EUV ridge both below and above the cusp, which
in both regions appears closer to the cusp at higher energies in the thermal
regime. This trend is reversed in the nonthermal regime. (3) Spectral analysis
indicates thermal X-rays from all sources throughout the flare, while during
the impulsive phase there is additional nonthermal emission which primarily
comes from the coronal source below the cusp. This source also has a lower
temperature, a higher emission measure, and a much harder nonthermal spectrum
than the upper sources.