We present the target selection, observations, and data reduction and
analysis process for a program aimed at discovering numerous, weak (equivalent
width < 100 mA) Lya absorption lines in the local Universe (0.003 < z < 0.069).
The purpose of this program is to study the physical conditions of the local
intergalactic medium, including absorber distributions in Doppler width and H I
column density, absorber number density and evolution with redshift,
line-of-sight two-point correlation function, and the baryonic content and
metallicity. By making use of large-angle, nearby galaxy redshift surveys, we
will investigate the relationship (if any) between these Lya absorbers and
galaxies, superclusters and voids. In Paper I, we present high resolution (~19
km/s) spectroscopic observations of 15 very bright (V < 14.5) AGN targets made
with the Goddard High Resolution Spectrograph (GHRS) aboard the Hubble Space
Telescope (HST). We find 81 definite (> 4 sigma) and 30 possible (3-4 sigma)
Lya absorption lines in these spectra, which probe a total pathlength of
116,000 km/s (delta z ~ 0.4) at very low redshift (z < 0.069) and column
density (12.5< Log[Nh] < 14.5). We found numerous metal lines arising in the
Milky Way halo, including absorption from 14 distinct high velocity clouds and
numerous absorptions intrinsic to the target AGN. Here, we describe the details
of the target selection, HST observations, and spectral reduction and analysis.
 We present reduced spectra and absorption line lists and ``pie diagrams''
showing the known galaxy distributions in the direction of each target. In
Papers II and III, we use the data presented here to determine the basic
physical characteristics of the low-z Lya forest and to investigate the
relationship of the absorbers to the local galaxy distribution.