We present some developments in determining H-alpha distances to
high-velocity clouds (HVCs) in the Galactic halo. Until recently, it was
difficult to assess the nature and origin of HVCs because so little was known
about them. But now several HVCs have reliable distance bounds derived from the
stellar absorption technique, and more than a dozen have abundance
measurements. In addition, twenty or more HVCs have been detected in H-alpha
(and a few in optical forbidden lines). Over the past five years, we have been
developing a model of the halo radiation field which includes contributions
from the stellar disk, the stellar bulge, the hot corona, and the Magellanic
Clouds. In certain instances, the H-alpha flux from an opaque HI cloud can be
used to derive a crude distance constraint to the cloud. For a UV escape
fraction of f_esc ~ 6% perpendicular to the disk (f_esc ~ 1-2% when averaged
over solid angle), the HVCs appear to be broadly consistent with the spiral arm
model. We caution that a larger database with full sky coverage is required
before the usefulness of H-alpha distances can be fully assessed. We present a
number of detailed predictions from our distance frame to encourage independent
assessments from future observations. If the model is valid, we find that most
HVCs detected to date are scattered throughout the halo up to distances of 50
kpc from the Sun. Most of this material is likely to be debris from recent
galaxy interactions, or even debris dislodged from the outer Galaxy disk. We
propose some future tests of the H-alpha distance model and briefly discuss
recent H-alpha detections along the Magellanic Bridge and Magellanic Stream.