Our peculiar motion with respect to the CMB rest frame represents a preferred
direction in the observed CMB sky since it induces an apparent deflection of
the observed CMB photons (aberration) and a shift in their frequency (Doppler).
Both effects distort the multipoles $a_{\ell m}$'s at all $\ell$'s. Such
effects are real as it has been recently measured for the first time by Planck
according to what was forecast in some recent papers. However, the common lore
when estimating a power spectrum from CMB is to consider that Doppler affects
only the $\ell=1$ multipole, neglecting any other corrections. In this work we
use simulations of the CMB sky in a boosted frame with a peculiar velocity
$\beta = v/c = 1.23 \times 10^{-3}$ in order to assess the impact of such
effect on power spectrum estimations in different regions of the sky. We show
that the boost induces a north-south asymmetry in the power spectrum which is
highly significant and non-negligible, of about (0.58 $\pm$ 0.10)% for half-sky
cuts when going up to $\ell$ = 2500. We suggest that these effects are relevant
and may account for some of the north-south asymmetries seen in the Planck
data, being especially important at small scales. Finally we analyze the
particular case of the ACT experiment, which observed only a small fraction of
the sky and show that it suffers a bias of about 1% on the power spectrum and
of similar size on some cosmological parameters: for example the position of
the peaks shifts by 0.5% and the overall amplitude of the spectrum is about
0.4% lower than a full-sky case.