The research of influence propagation in social networks via word-of-mouth
processes has been given considerable attention in recent years. Arguably, the
most fundamental problem in this domain is the influence maximization problem,
where the goal is to identify a small seed set of individuals that can trigger
a large cascade of influence in the network. While there has been significant
progress regarding this problem and its variants, one basic shortcoming of the
underlying models is that they lack the flexibility in the way the overall
budget is allocated to different individuals. Indeed, budget allocation is a
critical issue in advertising and viral marketing. Taking the other point of
view, known models allowing flexible budget allocation do not take into account
the influence spread in social networks.
  We introduce a generalized model that captures both budgets and influence
propagation simultaneously. For the offline setting, we identify a large family
of natural budget-based propagation functions that admits a tight approximation
guarantee. This family extends most of the previously studied influence models,
including the well-known Triggering model. We establish that any function in
this family implies an instance of a monotone submodular function maximization
over the integer lattice subject to a knapsack constraint. This problem is
known to admit an optimal $1-1/e \approx 0.632$-approximation. For the online
setting, in which an unknown subset of agents arrive in a random order and the
algorithm needs to make an irrevocable budget allocation in each step, we
develop a $1/(15e) \approx 0.025$-competitive algorithm. This setting extends
the celebrated secretary problem, and its variant, the submodular knapsack
secretary problem. Notably, our algorithm improves over the best known
approximation for the latter problem, even though it applies to a more general
setting.