A set of high-resolution optical spectra of RCrB acquired before, during, and
after its 1995-1996 decline is discussed. All of the components reported from
earlier declines are seen. This novel dataset provides new information on these
components including several aspects not previously seen in declines of RCrB
and other RCBs. In the latter category is the discovery that the decline's
onset is marked by distortions of absorption lines of high-excitation lines,
and quickly followed by emission in these and in low excitation lines. This
'photospheric trigger' implies that dust causing the decline is formed close to
the star. These emission lines fade quickly. After 1995 November 2, low
excitation narrow (FWHM ~12 km s-1) emission lines remain. These appear to be a
permanent feature, slightly blue-shifted from the systemic velocity, and
unaffected by the decline except for a late and slight decrease of flux at
minimum light. The location of the warm, dense gas providing these lines is
uncertain. Absorption lines unaffected by overlying sharp emission are greatly
broadened, weakened, and red-shifted at the faintest magnitudes when scattered
light from the star is a greater contributor than direct light transmitted
through the fresh soot cloud. A few broad lines are seen at and near minimum
light with approxiamately constant flux: prominent among these are the He I
triplet series, Na I D, and [N II] lines. These lines are blue-shifted by about
30 km s(-1) relative to the systemic velocity with no change in velocity over
the several months for whicht he lines were seen. It is suggested that these
lines, especially the He I lines, arise from an accretion disk around an unseen
compact companion, which may be a low-mass white dwarf. If so, R CrB is similar
to the unusual post-AGB star 89 Her.