The instability in protoplanetary disks due to gas-dust friction and
self-gravity of gas and dust is investigated by linear analysis. In the case
where the dust to gas ratio is enhanced and turbulence is week, the instability
grows, even in gravitationally stable disks, on a timescale of order $10^{4-
5}$yr at a radius of order 100AU. If we ignore the dynamical feedback from dust
grains in the gas equation of motion, the instability reduces to the so-called
"secular gravitational instability", which was investigated previously as an
instability of dust in a fixed background gas flow. In this work, we solve the
equations of motion for both gas and dust consistently and find that
long-wavelength perturbations are stable, in contrast to the secular
gravitational instability in the simplified treatment. This may indicate that
we should not neglect small terms in equation of motion if the growth rate is
small. The instability is expected to form ring structures in protoplanetary
disks. The width of the ring formed at a radius of 100 AU is a few tens of AU.
Therefore, the instability is a candidate for the formation mechanism of
observed ring-like structures in disks. Another aspect of the instability is
the accumulation of dust grains, and hence the instability may play an
important role in the formation of planetesimals, rocky protoplanets, and cores
of gas giants located at radii $\sim$100 AU. If these objects survive the
dispersal of the gaseous component of the disk, they may be the origin of
debris disks.