Massive MIMO and C-RAN are two promising techniques for implementing future
wireless communication systems, where a large number of antennas are deployed
either being co-located at the base station (BS) or totally distributed at
separate sites called remote radio heads (RRHs). In this paper, we consider a
general antenna deployment design for wireless networks, termed multi-antenna
C-RAN, where a flexible number of antennas can be equipped at each RRH to more
effectively balance the performance and fronthaul complexity trade-off beyond
the conventional massive MIMO and single-antenna C-RAN. Under the uplink
communication setup, we propose a new "spatial-compression-and-forward (SCF)"
scheme, where each RRH first performs a linear spatial filtering to denoise and
maximally compress its received signals from multiple users to a reduced number
of dimensions, then conducts uniform scalar quantization over each of the
resulting dimensions in parallel, and finally sends the total quantized bits to
the baseband unit (BBU) via a finite-rate fronthaul link for joint information
decoding. Under this scheme, we maximize the minimum
signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR) of all users at the BBU by a
joint resource allocation over the wireless transmission and fronthaul links.
Specifically, each RRH determines its own spatial filtering solution in a
distributed manner to reduce the signalling overhead with the BBU, while the
BBU jointly optimizes the users' transmit power, the RRHs' fronthaul bits
allocation, and the BBU's receive beamforming with fixed spatial filters at
individual RRHs. Through numerical results, it is shown that given a total
number of antennas to be deployed, multi-antenna C-RAN with the proposed SCF
and joint optimization significantly outperforms both massive MIMO and
single-antenna C-RAN under practical fronthaul capacity constraints.