It has been established that the entangled polymer dynamics can be reasonably
described by single chain models such as tube and slip-link models. Although
the entanglement effect is a result of the hard-core interaction between
chains, linkage between the single chain models and the real multi-chain system
has not been established yet. In this study, we propose a multi-chain
slip-spring model where bead-spring chains are dispersed in space and connected
by slip-springs inspired by the single chain slip-spring model [A. E. Likhtman,
Macromolecules 38, 6128 (2005)]. In this model the entanglement effect is
replaced by the slip-springs, not by the hard-core interaction between beads so
that this model is located in the niche between conventional multi-chain
simulations and single chain models. The set of state variables are the
position of beads and the connectivity (indices) of the slip-springs between
beads. The dynamics of the system is described by the time evolution equation
and stochastic transition dynamics for these variables. We propose a simple
model which is based on the well-defined total free-energy and the detailed
balance condition. The free energy in our model contains a repulsive
interaction between beads, which compensate the attractive interaction
artificially generated by the slip-springs. The explicit expression of linear
relaxation modulus is also derived by the linear response theory. We also
propose a possible numerical scheme to perform simulations. Simulations
reproduced expected bead number dependence in transitional regime between Rouse
and entangled dynamics for the chain structure, the central bead diffusion, and
the linear relaxation modulus.