The Chandra Deep Field South (CDF-S) 1Ms exposure produced a catalog of 346
X-ray sources, of which 59 were not visible on the VLT/FORS1 and the
ESO-MPI/WFI deep R-band images to a limit of R_{vega}=26.1--26.7 mag. Using the
first release of the ESO VLT/ISAAC JHK_s data on the CDF-S, we identified six
of the twelve such objects that were within the coverage of these IR
observations. The VLT/FORS1 I-band data further confirms that five of these six
objects are undetected in the optical. The photometric properties of these six
counterparts are compared against those of the optically brighter counterparts
of Chandra sources in the same field. We found that the location of these
optically brighter Chandra sources in the near-IR color space was bifurcated,
with the color of one branch being consistent with that of E/S0 galaxies at 0
<= z <= 1.5 and the other branch being consistent with that of unreddened
AGN/QSOs at 0 <= z <= 3.5. The six counterparts that we identified seemed to
lie on the E/S0 branch and its extension, suggesting that these X-ray source
hosts are mostly luminous E/S0 galaxies (M_V ~ -20 mag in AB system) at 1 <= z
<= 2.5. On the other hand, some of them can also be explained by AGN/QSOs over
a wide redshift range (0 <= z <= 5) if a range of internal extinction (A_V=0--1
mag) is allowed. However, the later interpretation requires fine-tuning
extinction together with redshift for these objects individually. If they are
indeed AGN/QSOs, the most luminous of them is just barely qualified for being a
QSO. Finally, we point out that neither high-redshift (z > 5) star-forming
galaxies nor irregular galaxies at lower redshift can be a viable explanation
to the nature of these six counterparts.