The Chandra X-ray observatory monitored the single cool star, AB Doradus,
continuously for a period lasting 88 ksec (1.98 Prot) in 2002 December with the
LETG/HRC-S. The X-ray lightcurve shows rotational modulation, with three peaks
that repeat in two consecutive rotation cycles. These peaks may indicate the
presence of compact emitting regions in the quiescent corona. Centroid shifts
as a function of phase in the strongest line profile, O VIII 18.97 A, indicate
Doppler rotational velocities with a semi-amplitude of 30 +/- 10 km/s. By
taking these diagnostics into account along with constraints on the rotational
broadening of line profiles (provided by archival Chandra HETG Fe XVII and FUSE
Fe XVIII profile) we can construct a simple model of the X-ray corona that
requires two components. One of these components is responsible for 80% of the
X-ray emission, and arises from the pole and/or a homogeneously distributed
corona. The second component consists of two or three compact active regions
that cause modulation in the lightcurve and contribute to the O VIII centroid
shifts. These compact regions account for 16% of the emission and are located
near the stellar surface with heights of less than 0.3R*. At least one of the
compact active regions is located in the partially obscured hemisphere of the
inclined star, while one of the other active regions may be located at 40
degrees. High quality X-ray data such as these can test the models of the
coronal magnetic field configuration as inferred from magnetic Zeeman Doppler
imaging.