The Swift GRB satellite is an excellent facility for studying novae. Its
rapid response time and sensitive X-ray detector provides an unparalleled
opportunity to investigate the previously poorly sampled evolution of novae in
the X-ray regime. This paper presents Swift observations of 52
Galactic/Magellanic Cloud novae. We included the XRT (0.3-10 keV) X-ray
instrument count rates and the UVOT (1700-8000 Angstroms) filter photometry.
Also included in the analysis are the publicly available pointed observations
of 10 additional novae the X-ray archives. This is the largest X-ray sample of
Galactic/Magellanic Cloud novae yet assembled and consists of 26 novae with
super soft X-ray emission, 19 from Swift observations. The data set shows that
the faster novae have an early hard X-ray phase that is usually missing in
slower novae. The Super Soft X-ray phase occurs earlier and does not last as
long in fast novae compared to slower novae. All the Swift novae with
sufficient observations show that novae are highly variable with rapid
variability and different periodicities. In the majority of cases, nuclear
burning ceases less than 3 years after the outburst begins. Previous
relationships, such as the nuclear burning duration vs. t_2 or the expansion
velocity of the eject and nuclear burning duration vs. the orbital period, are
shown to be poorly correlated with the full sample indicating that additional
factors beyond the white dwarf mass and binary separation play important roles
in the evolution of a nova outburst. Finally, we confirm two optical phenomena
that are correlated with strong, soft X-ray emission which can be used to
further increase the efficiency of X-ray campaigns.