We report on the results from a Chandra ACIS observation of the young,
compact, supernova remnant N103B. The unprecedented spatial resolution of
Chandra reveals sub-arcsecond structure, both in the brightness and in spectral
variations. Underlying these small-scale variations is a surprisingly simple
radial structure in the equivalent widths of the strong Si and S emission
lines. We investigate these radial variations through spatially resolved
spectroscopy using a plane-parallel, non-equilibrium ionization model with
multiple components. The majority of the emission arises from components with a
temperature of 1 keV: a fully ionized hydrogen component; a high ionization
timescale (n_e*t > 10^12 s cm^-3) component containing Si, S, Ar, Ca, and Fe;
and a low ionization timescale (n_e*t ~ 10^{11} s cm^-3) O, Ne, and Mg
component. To reproduce the strong Fe Kalpha line, it is necessary to include
additional Fe in a hot (> 2 keV), low ionization (n_e*t ~ 10^10.8 s cm^-3)
component. This hot Fe may be in the form of hot Fe bubbles, formed in the
radioactive decay of clumps of 56Ni. We find no radial variation in the
ionization timescales or temperatures of the various components. Rather, the Si
and S equivalent widths increase at large radii because these lines, as well as
those of Ar and Ca, are formed in a shell occupying the outer half of the
remnant. A shell of hot Fe is located interior to this, but there is a large
region of overlap between these two shells. In the inner 30% of the remnant,
there is a core of cooler, 1 keV Fe. We find that the distribution of the
ejecta and the yields of the intermediate mass species are consistent with
model prediction for Type Ia events.