We analyse sunspot oscillations using Interface Region Imaging Spectrograph
(IRIS) slit-jaw and spectral data and narrow-band chromospheric images from the
New Solar Telescope (NST) for the main sunspot in NOAA AR 11836. We report that
the difference between the shock arrival times as measured the Mg II k
2796.35\AA\ and Si IV 1393.76\AA\ line formation levels changes during the
observed period and peak-to-peak delays may range from 40~s to zero. The
intensity of chromospheric shocks also displays a long term (about 20~min)
variations. NST's high spatial resolution \ha\ data allowed us to conclude that
in this sunspot umbral flashes (UFs) appeared in the form of narrow bright
lanes stretched along the light bridges and around clusters of umbral bright
points. Time series also suggested that UFs preferred to appear on the
sunspot-center side of light bridges, which may indicate the existence of a
compact sub-photospheric driver of sunspot oscillations. The sunspot's umbra as
seen in the IRIS chromospheric and transition region data appears bright above
the locations of light bridges and the areas where the dark umbra is dotted
with clusters of umbral dots. Co-spatial and co-temporal data from the
Atmospheric Imaging Assembly on board Solar Dynamics Observatory showed that
the same locations were associated with bright footpoints of coronal loops
suggesting that the light bridges may play an important role in heating the
coronal sunspot loops. Finally, the power spectra analysis showed that the
intensity of chromospheric and transition region oscillations significantly
vary across the umbra and with height, suggesting that umbral non-uniformities
and the structure of sunspot magnetic fields may play a role in wave
propagation and heating of umbral loops.