String theory contains various extended objects. Among those, objects of
codimension two (such as the D7-brane) are particularly interesting.
Codimension two objects carry non-Abelian charges which are elements of a
discrete U-duality group and they may not admit a simple space-time
description, in which case they are known as exotic branes. A complete
classification of consistent codimension two objects in string theory is
missing, even if we demand that they preserve some supersymmetry. As a step
toward such a classification, we study the supersymmetric solutions of 3D
maximal supergravity, which can be regarded as approximate description of the
geometry near codimension two objects. We present a complete classification of
the types of supersymmetric solutions that exist in this theory. We found that
this problem reduces to that of classifying nilpotent orbits associated with
the U-duality group, for which various mathematical results are known. We show
that the only allowed supersymmetric configurations are 1/2, 1/4, 1/8, and 1/16
BPS, and determine the nilpotent orbits that they correspond to. One example of
1/16 BPS configurations is a generalization of the MSW system, where momentum
runs along the intersection of seven M5-branes. On the other hand, it turns out
exceedingly difficult to translate this classification into a simple criterion
for supersymmetry in terms of the non-Abelian (monodromy) charges of the
objects. For example, it can happen that a supersymmetric solution exists
locally but cannot be extended all the way to the location of the object. To
illustrate the various issues that arise in constructing supersymmetric
solutions, we present a number of explicit examples.