We investigate the ideal and incompressible magnetohydrodynamic (MHD)
equations in three space dimensions for the development of potentially singular
structures. The methodology consists in implementing the four-fold symmetries
of the Taylor-Green vortex generalized to MHD, leading to substantial computer
time and memory savings at a given resolution; we also use a re-gridding method
that allows for lower-resolution runs at early times, with no loss of spectral
accuracy. One magnetic configuration is examined at an equivalent resolution of
$6144^3$ points, and three different configurations on grids of $4096^3$
points. At the highest resolution, two different current and vorticity sheet
systems are found to collide, producing two successive accelerations in the
development of small scales. At the latest time, a convergence of magnetic
field lines to the location of maximum current is probably leading locally to a
strong bending and directional variability of such lines. A novel analytical
method, based on sharp analysis inequalities, is used to assess the validity of
the finite-time singularity scenario. This method allows one to rule out
spurious singularities by evaluating the rate at which the logarithmic
decrement of the analyticity-strip method goes to zero. The result is that the
finite-time singularity scenario cannot be ruled out, and the singularity time
could be somewhere between $t=2.33$ and $t=2.70.$ More robust conclusions will
require higher resolution runs and grid-point interpolation measurements of
maximum current and vorticity.