Giano is a Cryogenic Spectrograph located in T.N.G. (Spain) and commisioned
in 2013. It works in the range 950-2500 nm with a resolving power of 50000.
This instrument was designed and built for direct feeding from the telescope
[2]. However, due to constraints imposed on the telescope interfacing during
the pre-commissioning phase, it had to be positioned on the rotating building,
far from the telescope focus. Therefore, a new interface to the telescope,
based on IR-transmitting ZBLAN fibers with 85\mu m core, was
developed.Originally designed to work directly at the $f/11$ nasmyth focus of
the telescope, in 2011 it has decided to use a fiber to feed it. The beam from
the telescope is focused on a double fiber boundle by a Preslit Optical Bench
attached to the Nasmith A interface of the telescope. This Optical Bench
contains the fiber feeding system and other important features as a guiding
system, a fiber viewer, a fiber feed calibration lamp and a nodding facility
between the two fibers. The use of two fibers allow us to have in the
echellogram two spectrograms side by side in the same acquisition: one of the
star and the other of the sky or simultaneously to have the star and a
calibration lamp. Before entering the cryostat the light from the fiber is
collectd by a second Preslit Optical Bench attached directly to the Giano
cryostat: on this bench the correct f-number to illuminate the cold stop is
generated and on the same bench is placed an image slicer to increase the
efficiency of the system.