We present a method for calculating precise distances to asteroids using only
two nights of data from a single location --- far too little for an orbit ---
by exploiting the angular reflex motion of the asteroids due to Earth's axial
rotation. We refer to this as the rotational reflex velocity method. While the
concept is simple and well-known, it has not been previously exploited for
surveys of main-belt asteroids. We offer a mathematical development, estimates
of the errors of the approximation, and a demonstration using a sample of 197
asteroids observed for two nights with a small, 0.9-meter telescope. This
demonstration used digital tracking to enhance detection sensitivity for faint
asteroids, but our distance determination works with any detection method.
Forty-eight asteroids in our sample had known orbits prior to our observations,
and for these we demonstrate a mean fractional error of only 1.6% between the
distances we calculate and those given in ephemerides from the Minor Planet
Center. In contrast to our two-night results, distance determination by fitting
approximate orbits requires observations spanning 7--10 nights. Once an
asteroid's distance is known, its absolute magnitude and size (given a
statistically-estimated albedo) may immediately be calculated. Our method will
therefore greatly enhance the efficiency with which 4-meter and larger
telescopes can probe the size distribution of small (e.g. 100 meter) main belt
asteroids. This distribution remains poorly known, yet encodes information
about the collisional evolution of the asteroid belt --- and hence the history
of the Solar System.