This work investigates the dose-response curves of GAFCHROMIC EBT, EBT2, and
EBT3 radiochromic films using synchrotron-produced monochromatic x-ray beams.
EBT2 film is being utilized for dose verification in photoactivated Auger
electron therapy at the Louisiana State University CAMD synchrotron facility.
Monochromatic beams of 25, 30, and 35 keV were generated on the tomography
beamline at CAMD. Ion chamber depth-dose measurements were used to determine
the dose delivered to films irradiated at depths from 0.7 to 8.5 cm in a
10x10x10-cm3 PMMA phantom. AAPM TG-61 protocol was applied to convert measured
ionization into dose. Films were digitized using an Epson 1680 Professional
flatbed scanner and analyzed using the net optical density (NOD) derived from
the red channel. A dose-response curve was obtained at 35 keV for EBT film, and
at 25, 30, and 35 keV for EBT2 and EBT3 films. Calibrations of films for 4 MV
x-rays were obtained for comparison using a radiotherapy accelerator at Mary
Bird Perkins Cancer Center. The sensitivity (NOD per unit dose) of EBT film at
35 keV relative to that for 4-MV x-rays was 0.73 and 0.76 for doses 50 and 100
cGy, respectively. The sensitivity of EBT2 film at 25, 30, and 35 keV relative
to that for 4-MV x-rays varied from 1.09 - 1.07, 1.23 - 1.17, and 1.27 - 1.19
for doses 50 - 200 cGy, respectively. For EBT3 film the relative sensitivity
was within 3% of unity for all three monochromatic x-ray beams. EBT and EBT2
film sensitivity showed strong energy dependence over an energy range of 25 keV
- 4 MV, although this dependence becomes weaker for larger doses. EBT3 film
shows weak energy dependence, indicating that it would be a better dosimeter
for kV x-ray beams where beam hardening effects can result in large changes in
the effective energy.