The runaway star HD34078, initially selected to investigate small scale
structure in a foreground diffuse cloud has been shown to be surrounded by
highly excited H2. We first search for an association between the foreground
cloud and HD34078. Second, we extend previous investigations of temporal
absorption line variations (CH, CH+, H2) in order to better characterize them.
We have mapped the CO(2-1) emission at 12 arcsec resolution around HD34078's
position, using the 30 m IRAM antenna. The follow-up of CH and CH+ absorption
lines has been extended over 5 more years. In parallel, CH absorption towards
the reddened star Zeta Per have been monitored to check the homogeneity of our
measurements. Three more FUSE spectra have been obtained to search for N(H2)
variations. CO observations show a pronounced maximum near HD34078's position,
clearly indicating that the star and diffuse cloud are associated. The optical
spectra confirm the reality of strong, rapid and correlated CH and CH+
fluctuations. On the other hand, N(H2, J=0) has varied by less than 5 % over 4
years. We also discard N(CH) variations towards Zeta Per at scales less than 20
AU. Observational constraints from this work and from 24 micron dust emission
appear to be consistent with H2 excitation but inconsistent with steady-state
bow shock models and rather suggest that the shell of compressed gas
surrounding HD34078, is seen at an early stage of the interaction. The CH and
CH+ time variations as well as their large abundances are likely due to
chemical structure in the shocked gas layer located at the stellar wind/ambient
cloud interface. Finally, the lack of variations for both N(H2, J=0) towards
HD34078 and N(CH) towards Zeta Per suggests that quiescent molecular gas is not
subject to pronounced small-scale structure.