NGC 2915 is a blue compact dwarf galaxy with a very extended HI disk showing
a short central bar and extended spiral arms, both reaching far beyond the
optical component. We use Tremaine & Weinberg (1984) method to measure the
pattern speed of the bar from HI radio synthesis data. Our measurements yield a
pattern speed of 0.21+/-0.06 km/s/arcsec (8.0+/-2.4 km/s/kpc for D=5.3 Mpc), in
disagreement with the general view that corotation in barred disks lies just
outside the end of the bar, but consistent with recent models of barred
galaxies with dense dark matter halos. Our adopted bar semi-length puts
corotation at more than 1.7 bar radii. The existence of the pattern is also
problematic. Because NGC 2915 is isolated, interactions cannot account for the
structure observed in the HI disk. We also demonstrate that the low observed
disk surface density and the location of the pseudo-rings make it unlikely that
swing amplification or bar-driven spiral arms could explain the bar and spiral
pattern.
  Based on the similarity of the dark matter and HI surface density profiles,
we discuss the possibility of dark matter distributed in a disk and following
closely the HI distribution. The disk then becomes unstable and can naturally
form a bar and spiral pattern. However, this explanation is hard to reconcile
with some properties of NGC 2915. We also consider the effect of a massive and
extended triaxial dark matter halo with a rotating figure. The existence of
such halos is supported by CDM simulations showing strongly triaxial dark halos
with slow figure rotation. The observed structure of the HI disk can then arise
through forcing by the rotating triaxial figure. We associate the measured
pattern speed in NGC 2915 with the figure rotation of its dark halo.