The purpose of this work is to analyze the flow due to a potential point
vortex pair in the vicinity of a symmetry line (or "wall"), in order to
understand why the presence of the wall, even far from the vortices,
accelerates fluid mixing around the vortex pair. An asymptotic analysis, in the
limit of large distances to the wall, allows to approximate the wall effect as
a constant translation of the vortex pair parallel to the wall, plus a
straining flow which induces a natural blinking vortex mechanism with period
half the rotation period. A Melnikov analysis of lagrangian particles, in the
frame translating and rotating with the vortices, shows that a homoclinic
bifurcation indeed occurs, so that the various separatrices located near the
vortex pair (and rotating with it) do not survive when a wall is present. The
thickness of the resulting inner stochastic layer is estimated by using the
separatrix map method, and is shown to scale like the inverse of the squared
distance to the wall. This estimation provides a lower-bound to the numerical
thickness measured from either Poincar\'e sections or simulations of lagrangian
particles transported by the exact potential velocity field in the laboratory
frame. In addition, it is shown that the outer homoclinic cycle, separating the
vortices from the external (open) flow, is also perturbed from inside by the
rotation of the vortex pair. As a consequence, a stochastic layer is shown to
exist also in the vicinity of this cycle, allowing fluid exchange between the
vortices and the outer flow. However, the thickness of this outer stochastic
zone is observed to be much smaller than the one of the inner stochastic zone
near vortices, as soon as the distance to the wall is large enough.