Umbral dots (UDs) are small isolated brightening observed in sunspot umbrae.
They are convective phenomena existing inside umbrae. UDs are usually divided
into central UDs (CUDs) and peripheral UDs (PUDs) with respect to their
positions inside an umbra. Our purpose is to investigate UD properties and
analyze their relationships, and further to find whether or not the properties
depend on the umbral magnetic field variation. For the purpose, we selected the
high-resolution TiO images of four active regions (ARs) obtained under the best
seeing conditions with the New Vacuum Solar Telescope (NVST) in Fuxian Solar
Observatory of Yunnan Astronomical Observatory, China. The four ARs (NOAA
11598, 11801, 12158, and 12178) include six sunspots. A total of 1220 CUDs were
extracted from six sunspots, and 603 PUDs from three sunspots. Meanwhile, the
radial component of the magnetic field of the sunspots obtained with the
Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager onboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory was
used to analyze the influence to UD properties. To CUDs, their diameters and
lifetimes exhibit an increasing trend with brightness, whereas their horizontal
velocities exhibit an inverse trend. Moreover, the properties: diameter,
intensity and velocity depend on magnetic field variation. To a CUD, its
diameter becomes larger and brighter, and its motion shows slower in a weak
magnetic field than in a strong field. To PUDs, the similar trends are also
found. Moreover, we also find that the lifetimes of UDs located in different
sunspots are not obviously different, implying that they are unrelated to the
magnetic flux density in which they lived.