We search for effects of metallicity on B and Be stars in the Small and Large
Magellanic Clouds (SMC and LMC) and in the Milky Way (MW). We extend our
previous analysis of B and Be stars populations in the LMC to the SMC. The
rotational velocities of massive stars and the evolutionary status of Be stars
are examined with respect to their environments. Spectroscopic observations of
hot stars belonging to the young cluster SMC-NGC 330 and its surrounding region
have been obtained with the VLT-GIRAFFE facilities in MEDUSA mode. We determine
fundamental parameters for B and Be stars with the GIRFIT code, taking into
account the effect of fast rotation, and the age of observed clusters. We
compare the mean vsini obtained by spectral type- and mass-selection for field
and cluster B and Be stars in the SMC with the one in the LMC and MW. We find
that (i) B and Be stars rotate faster in the SMC than in the LMC, and in the
LMC than in the MW; (ii) at a given metallicity, Be stars begin their main
sequence life with a higher initial rotational velocity than B stars.
Consequently, only a fraction of B stars that reach the ZAMS with a
sufficiently high initial rotational velocity can become Be stars; (iii) the
distributions of initial rotational velocities at the ZAMS for Be stars in the
SMC, LMC and MW are mass- and metallicity-dependent; (iv) the angular
velocities of B and Be stars are higher in the SMC than in the LMC and MW; (v)
in the SMC and LMC, massive Be stars appear in the second part of the main
sequence, contrary to massive Be stars in the MW.