The study of photoionized environments is fundamental to many astrophysical
problems. Up to the present most photoionization codes have numerically solved
the equations of radiative transfer by making the extreme simplifying
assumption of spherical symmetry. Unfortunately very few real astronomical
nebulae satisfy this requirement. To remedy these shortcomings, a
self-consistent, three-dimensional radiative transfer code has been developed
using Monte Carlo techniques. The code, Mocassin, is designed to build
realistic models of photoionized nebulae having arbitraries geometry and
density distributions with both the stellar and diffuse radiation fields
treated self-consistently. In addition, the code is capable of tretating on or
more exciting stars located at non-central locations. The gaseous region is
approximated by a cuboidal Cartesian grid composed of numerous cells. The
physical conditions within each grid cell are determined by solving the thermal
equilibrium and ionization balance equations This requires a knowledge of the
local primary and secondary radiation fields, which are calculated
self-consistently by locally simulating the individual processes of ionization
and recombination. The main structure and computational methods used in the
Mocassin code are described in this paper. Mocassin has been benchmarked
against established one-dimensional spherically symmetric codes for a number of
standard cases, as defined by the Lexington/Meudon photoionization workshops
(Pequignot et al., 1986; Ferland et al., 1995; Pequignot et al.,
2001)\citep{pequignot86,ferland95, pequignot01}. The results obtained for the
benchmark cases are satisfactory and are presented in this paper. A performance
analysis has also been carried out and is discussed here.