We perform a dynamical analysis of the recently updated set of the radial
velocity (RV) measurements of the HD160691 (mu Arae). The kinematic,
2-Keplerian model of the measurements leads to the best-fit solution in which
the eccentricity of the outer planet is about 0.7 and its semi-major axis is
about 4AU. The parameters of the inner planet are well determined. The
eccentricity is about 0.3 and the semi-major axis is about 1.65AU. The best
2-Keplerian model leads to a catastrophically unstable configuration, self
disrupting in less than 20,000yr. To derive dynamically stable configurations
which are simultaneously consistent with the RV data, we use the so called GAMP
(Genetic Algorithm with MEGNO Penalty). Using this method, we derive meaningful
limits on the parameters of the outer planet which provide a stable behavior of
the system. The best-fit solutions are located in a shallow valley of Chi^2, in
the (a_c,e_c)-plane, extending over 2AU (for the formal 1sigma confidence
interval of the best fit). We find two equally good best-fit solutions leading
to the qualitatively different orbital configurations. One of them corresponds
to the center of the 5:1 mean motion resonance (MMR) and the second one
describes a configuration between the 6:1 and 17:2MMRs. The mu Arae system can
be found in the zone confined to other low-order MMRs of the type p:1 with p>5.
Our results support the classification of the mu Arae as a hierarchical
planetary system, dynamically similar to other known multi-planet systems
around HD12661 and HD169830. The results of the GAMP on the extended data set
are fully consistent with our previous conclusions concerning a much shorter
observational window.