We report the discovery by the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer of the z =
2.452 source WISE J181417.29+341224.9, the first hyperluminous source found in
the WISE survey. WISE 1814+3412 is also the prototype for an all-sky sample of
~1000 extremely luminous "W1W2-dropouts" (sources faint or undetected by WISE
at 3.4 and 4.6 microns and well detected at 12 or 22 microns). The WISE data
and a 350 micron detection give a minimum bolometric luminosity of 3.7 x 10^13
Lsun, with ~10^14 Lsun plausible. Followup images reveal four nearby sources: a
QSO and two Lyman Break Galaxies (LBGs) at z = 2.45, and an M dwarf star. The
brighter LBG dominates the bolometric emission. Gravitational lensing is
unlikely given the source locations and their different spectra and colors. The
dominant LBG spectrum indicates a star formation rate ~300 Msun/yr, accounting
for < 10% of the bolometric luminosity. Strong 22 micron emission relative to
350 microns implies that warm dust contributes significantly to the luminosity,
while cooler dust normally associated with starbursts is constrained by an
upper limit at 1.1 mm. Radio emission is ~10x above the far-infrared/radio
correlation, indicating an active galactic nucleus is present. An obscured AGN
combined with starburst and evolved stellar components can account for the
observations. If the black hole mass follows the local M_BH-bulge mass
relation, the implied Eddington ratio is >~4. WISE 1814+3412 may be a heavily
obscured object where the peak AGN activity occurred prior to the peak era of
star formation.