We present an event-driven molecular dynamics study for hard ellipses and
assess the effects of aspect ratio and area fraction on their physical
properties. For state points in the plane of aspect ratio (k=1-9) and area
fraction (phi=0.01-0.8), we identify three different phases, including
isotropic, plastic and nematic states. The equation of state (EOS) is shown for
a wide range of aspect ratios and is compared with the scaled particle theory
(SPT) for the isotropic states. We find that SPT provides a good description of
the EOS for the isotropic phase of hard ellipses. At large fixed phi, the
reduced pressure p increases with k in both the isotropic and the plastic
phases, and interestingly, its dependence on k is rather weak in the nematic
phase. We rationalize the thermodynamics of hard ellipses in terms of particle
motions. The plastic crystal is shown to form for aspect ratios up to k=1.4,
while appearance of the stable nematic phase starts approximately at k=3. We
quantitatively determine the locations of the isotropic-plastic (I-P)
transition and the isotropic-nematic (I-N) transition by analyzing the
bond-orientation correlations and the angular correlations, respectively. As
expected, the I-P transition point is found to increase with k, while a larger
k leads to a smaller area fraction where the I-N transition takes place.
Moreover, our simulations strongly support that the two-dimensional nematic
phase in hard ellipses has only quasi-long-range orientational order. The
self-diffusion of hard ellipses is further explored and connections are
revealed between the structure and the self-diffusion. We discuss the relevance
of our results to the glass transition in hard ellipses. Finally, the results
of the isodiffusivity lines are evaluated for hard ellipses and we discuss the
effect of spatial dimension on the diffusive dynamics of hard ellipsoidal
particles.