With the help of model calculations we aim at reproducing the observational
photometric findings for a large sample of well-characterised galactic C-type
Mira variables losing mass at different rates. We used dynamic model
atmospheres, describing the outer layers of C-rich Miras, which are severly
affected by dynamic effects. Based on the resulting structures and under the
assumptions of chemical equilibrium as well as LTE, we computed synthetic
spectra and synthetic broad-band photometry (Johnson-Cousins-Glass). A set of
five representative models with different stellar parameters describes a
sequence from less to more evolved objects with steadily increasing mass-loss
rates. This allowed us to study the significant influence of circumstellar dust
on the spectral energy distributions and the (amplitudes of) lightcurves in
different filters. We tested the photometric properties (mean NIR magnitudes,
colours, and amplitudes) and other characteristics of the models (mass-loss
rates, periods, and bolometric corrections) by comparing these with the
corresponding observational data adopted from the literature. Using different
kinds of diagrams we illustrate where the models are located in a supposed
evolutionary sequence defined by observed C-type Mira samples. Based on
comparisons of galactic targets with empirical relations derived for C stars in
the Large Magellanic Cloud we discuss the relevance of metallicity and excess
carbon (C--O) for the development of dust-driven winds. Having investigated the
dynamic model atmospheres from different (mainly photometric) perspectives, we
conclude that our modelling approach (meaning the combination of numerical
method and a suitable choice of model parameters) is able to describe C-rich
long-period variables over a wide range of mass-loss rates, i.e., from
moderately pulsating objects without any dusty wind to highly dust-enshrouded
Carbon Miras.