Surface differential rotation (DR) is one major ingredient of the magnetic
field generation process in the Sun and likely in other stars. The term
solar-like differential rotation describes the observation that solar
equatorial regions rotate faster than polar ones. The opposite effect of polar
regions rotating faster than equatorial ones (termed as antisolar DR) has only
been observed in a few stars, although there is evidence from theoretical
dynamo models. We present a new method to detect the sign of DR (i.e.
solar-like or antisolar DR) by analyzing long-term high-precision light curves
with the Lomb-Scargle periodogram.We compute the Lomb-Scargle periodogram and
identify a set of significant periods $P_k$, which we associate with active
regions located at different latitudes on the the stellar surface. If
detectable, the first harmonics ($P_k'$) of these periods were identified to
compute their peak-height-ratios $r_k:=h(P_k')/h(P_k)$. Spots rotating at lower
latitudes generate less sine-shaped light curves, which requires additional
power in the harmonics, and results in larger ratios $r_k$. Comparing different
ratios $r_k$ and the associated periods $P_k$ yields information about the spot
latitudes, and reveals the sign of DR. We tested our method on different sets
of synthetic light curves all exhibiting solar-like DR. The number of cases
where our method detects antisolar DR is the false-positive rate of our method.
Depending on the set of light curves, the noise level, the required minimum
peak separation, and the presence or absence of spot evolution, our method
fails to detect the correct sign in at most 20%. We applied our method to 50
Kepler G stars and found 21-34 stars with solar-like DR and 5-10 stars with
antisolar DR, depending on the minimum peak separation.