We present ten medium-resolution, high signal-to-noise ratio near-infrared
(NIR) spectra of SN 2011fe from SpeX on the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility
(IRTF) and Gemini Near-Infrared Spectrograph (GNIRS) on Gemini North, obtained
as part of the Carnegie Supernova Project. This data set constitutes the
earliest time-series NIR spectroscopy of a Type Ia supernova (SN Ia), with the
first spectrum obtained at 2.58 days past the explosion and covering -14.6 to
+17.3 days relative to B-band maximum. C I {\lambda}1.0693 {\mu}m is detected
in SN 2011fe with increasing strength up to maximum light. The delay in the
onset of the NIR C I line demonstrates its potential to be an effective tracer
of unprocessed material. For the first time in a SN Ia, the early rapid decline
of the Mg II {\lambda}1.0927 {\mu}m velocity was observed, and the subsequent
velocity is remarkably constant. The Mg II velocity during this constant phase
locates the inner edge of carbon burning and probes the conditions under which
the transition from deflagration to detonation occurs. We show that the Mg II
velocity does not correlate with the optical light-curve decline rate
{\Delta}m15. The prominent break at ~1.5 {\mu}m is the main source of concern
for NIR k-correction calculations. We demonstrate here that the feature has a
uniform time evolution among SNe Ia, with the flux ratio across the break
strongly correlated with {\Delta}m15. The predictability of the strength and
the onset of this feature suggests that the associated k-correction
uncertainties can be minimized with improved spectral templates.