Located in the Orion Trapezium cluster, Theta 1 Orionis C is one of the
youngest and nearest high-mass stars (O5-O7) and also known to be a close
binary system. Using new multi-epoch visual and near-infrared bispectrum
speckle interferometric observations obtained at the BTA 6 m telescope, and
IOTA near-infrared long-baseline interferometry, we trace the orbital motion of
the Theta 1 Ori C components over the interval 1997.8 to 2005.9, covering a
significant arc of the orbit. Besides fitting the relative position and the
flux ratio, we apply aperture synthesis techniques to our IOTA data to
reconstruct a model-independent image of the Theta 1 Ori C binary system.
  The orbital solutions suggest a high eccentricity (e approx. 0.91) and
short-period (P approx. 10.9 yrs) orbit. As the current astrometric data only
allows rather weak constraints on the total dynamical mass, we present the two
best-fit orbits. From these orbital solutions one can be favoured, implying a
system mass of 48 M_sun and a distance to the Trapezium cluster of 434 pc. When
also taking the measured flux ratio and the derived location in the HR-diagram
into account, we find good agreement for all observables, assuming a spectral
type of O5.5 for Theta 1 Ori C1 (M=34.0 M_sun) and O9.5 for C2 (M=15.5 M_sun).
  We find indications that the companion C2 is massive itself, which makes it
likely that its contribution to the intense UV radiation field of the Trapezium
cluster is non-negligible. Furthermore, the high eccentricity of the
preliminary orbit solution predicts a very small physical separation during
periastron passage (approx. 1.5 AU, next passage around 2007.5), suggesting
strong wind-wind interaction between the two O stars.