When using an electromagnetic particle-in-cell (EM-PIC) code to simulate a
relativistically drifting plasma, a violent numerical instability known as the
numerical Cerenkov instability (NCI) occurs. The NCI is due to the unphysical
coupling of electromagnetic waves on a grid to wave-particle resonances,
including aliased resonances, i.e., $\omega + 2\pi\mu/\Delta t=(k_1+
2\pi\nu_1/\Delta x_1)v_0$, where $\mu$ and $\nu_1$ refer to the time and space
aliases and the plasma is drifting relativistically at velocity $v_0$ in the
$\hat{1}$-direction. Recent studies have shown that an EM-PIC code which uses a
spectral field solver and a low pass filter can eliminate the fastest growing
modes of the NCI. Based on these studies a new spectral PIC code for studying
laser wakefield acceleration (LWFA) in the Lorentz boosted frame was developed.
However, we show that for parameters of relevance for LWFA simulations in the
boosted frame, a relativistically drifting plasma is susceptible to a host of
additional unstable modes with lower growth rates, and that these modes appear
when the fastest growing unstable modes are filtered out. We show that these
modes are most easily identified as the coupling between modes which are purely
transverse (EM) and purely longitudinal (Langmuir) in the rest frame of the
plasma for specific time and space aliases. We rewrite the dispersion relation
of the drifting plasma for a general field solver and obtain analytic
expressions for the location and growth rate for each unstable mode, i.e, for
each time and space aliased resonances. We show for the spectral solver that
when the fastest growing mode is eliminated a new mode at the fundamental
resonance ($\mu=\nu_1=0$) can be seen. (Please check the whole abstract in the
paper).