The VISTA Magellanic Cloud (VMC) survey is assembling a deep, multi-epoch
atlas of YJKs photometry across the Magellanic Clouds. Prior to the VMC survey
only the brightest Magellanic Cloud PNe (MCPNe) were accessible at
near-infrared (NIR) wavelengths. It is now possible for the first time to
assemble the NIR properties of MCPNe and to identify contaminating non-PNe
mimics which are best revealed at NIR wavelengths (e.g. HII regions and
symbiotic stars). To maintain the unique scientific niche that MCPNe occupy
these contaminants must be removed. Here we conduct a VMC-led, multi-wavelength
study of 102 objects previously classified as PNe that are located within the
first six VMC tiles observed. We present images, photometry, lightcurves,
diagnostic colour-colour diagrams and spectral energy distributions used to
analyse the entire sample. At least five PNe have newly resolved nebula
morphologies, a task previously only possible with the HST. A total 45/67 (67%)
of Reid & Parker (RP) catalogued objects were reclassified as non-PNe, most of
which were located in the vicinity of 30 Doradus. This sample included 16 field
stars, 5 emission line stars, 19 HII regions, 4 symbiotic star candidates and 1
young stellar object. We discuss possible selection effects responsible for
their inclusion in the RP catalogue and the implications for binary central
star surveys targeting LMC PNe. A total of five new LMC symbiotic star
candidates identified, compared to eight previously known, underlines the
important role the VMC survey will have in advancing Magellanic symbiotic star
studies.