Nonradial pulsations in the primary white dwarfs of cataclysmic variables can
now potentially allow us to explore the stellar interior of these accretors
using stellar seismology. In this context, we conducted a multi-site campaign
on the accreting pulsator SDSS J161033.64-010223.3 (V386 Ser) using seven
observatories located around the world in May 2007 over a duration of 11 days.
We report the best fit periodicities here, which were also previously observed
in 2004, suggesting their underlying stability. Although we did not uncover a
sufficient number of independent pulsation modes for a unique seismological
fit, our campaign revealed that the dominant pulsation mode at 609s is an
evenly spaced triplet. The even nature of the triplet is suggestive of
rotational splitting, implying an enigmatic rotation period of about 4.8 days.
There are two viable alternatives assuming the triplet is real: either the
period of 4.8 days is representative of the rotation period of the entire star
with implications for the angular momentum evolution of these systems, or it is
perhaps an indication of differential rotation with a fast rotating exterior
and slow rotation deeper in the star. Investigating the possibility that a
changing period could mimic a triplet suggests that this scenario is
improbable, but not impossible.
  Using time-series spectra acquired in May 2009, we determine the orbital
period of SDSS J161033.64-010223.3 to be 83.8 +/- 2.9 min. Three of the
observed photometric frequencies from our May 2007 campaign appear to be linear
combinations of the 609s pulsation mode with the first harmonic of the orbital
period at 41.5min. This is the first discovery of a linear combination between
nonradial pulsation and orbital motion for a variable white dwarf.