We report new near-infrared, long-baseline interferometric observations at
the AU scale of the pre-main-sequence star FU Orionis with the PTI, IOTA and
VLTI interferometers. This young stellar object has been observed on 42 nights
over a period of 6 years from 1998 to 2003. We have obtained 287 independent
measurements of the fringe visibility with 6 different baselines ranging from
20 to 110 meters in length, in the H and K bands. Our extensive (u,v)-plane
coverage, coupled with the published spectral energy distribution data, allows
us to test the accretion disk scenario. We find that the most probable
explanation for these observations is that FU Ori hosts an active accretion
disk whose temperature law is consistent with standard models. We are able to
constrain the geometry of the disk, including an inclination of 55 deg and a
position angle of 47 deg. In addition, a 10 percent peak-to-peak oscillation is
detected in the data (at the two-sigma level) from the longest baselines, which
we interpret as a possible disk hot-spot or companion. However, the oscillation
in our best data set is best explained with an unresolved spot located at a
projected distance of 10 AU at the 130 deg position angle and with a magnitude
difference of DeltaK = 3.9 and DeltaH = 3.6 mag moving away from the center at
a rate of 1.2 AU/yr. we propose to interpret this spot as the signature of a
companion of the central FU Ori system on an extremely eccentric orbit. We
speculate that the close encounter of this putative companion and the central
star could be the explanation of the initial photometric rise of the luminosity
of this object.