Context: Several hundred candidate hybrid pulsators of type A-F have been
identified from space-based observations. Their large number allows both
statistical analyses and detailed investigations of individual stars. This
offers the opportunity to study the full interior of the genuine hybrids, in
which both low-radial-order p- and high-order g-modes are self-excited at the
same time. However, a few other physical processes can also be responsible for
the observed hybrid nature, related to binarity or to surface inhomogeneities.
The finding that most delta Scuti stars also show long-period light variations
represents a real challenge for theory.
  Methods: Fourier analysis of all the available Kepler light curves.
Investigation of the frequency and period spacings. Determination of the
stellar physical parameters from spectroscopic observations. Modelling of the
transit events.
  Results: The Fourier analysis of the Kepler light curves revealed 55
significant frequencies clustered into two groups, which are separated by a gap
between 15 and 27 c/d. The light variations are dominated by the beating of two
dominant frequencies located at around 4 c/d. The amplitudes of these two
frequencies show a monotonic long-term trend. The frequency spacing analysis
revealed two possibilities: the pulsator is either a highly inclined moderate
rotator (v~70 km/s, i > 70 deg) or a fast rotator (v~200 km/s) with i~20 deg.
The transit analysis disclosed that the transit events which occur with a ~197
c/d period may be caused by a 1.6 R_Jup body orbiting a fainter star, which
would be spatially coincident with KIC 9533489.