The EAGLE instrument is a Multi-Object Adaptive Optics (MOAO) fed, multiple
Integral Field Spectrograph (IFS), working in the Near Infra-Red (NIR), on the
European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT). A Phase A design study was
delivered to the European Southern Observatory (ESO) leading to a successful
review in October 2009. Since that time there have been a number of
developments, which we summarize here. Some of these developments are also
described in more detail in other submissions at this meeting. The science case
for the instrument, while broad, highlighted in particular: understanding the
stellar populations of galaxies in the nearby universe, the observation of the
evolution of galaxies during the period of rapid stellar build-up between
redshifts of 2-5, and the search for 'first light' in the universe at redshifts
beyond 7. In the last 2 years substantial progress has been made in these
areas, and we have updated our science case to show that EAGLE is still an
essential facility for the E-ELT. This in turn allowed us to revisit the
science requirements for the instrument, confirming most of the original
decisions, but with one modification. The original location considered for the
instrument (a gravity invariant focal station) is no longer in the E-ELT
Construction Proposal, and so we have performed some preliminary analyses to
show that the instrument can be simply adapted to work at the E-ELT Nasmyth
platform. Since the delivery of the Phase A documentation, MOAO has been
demonstrated on-sky by the CANARY experiment at the William Herschel Telescope.