This paper describes a method of fitting total intensity and polarization
profiles in VLBI images of astrophysical jets to profiles predicted by a
theoretical model. As an example, the method is used to fit profiles of the jet
in the Active Galactic Nucleus Mrk501 with profiles predicted by a model in
which a cylindrical jet of synchrotron plasma is threaded by a magnetic field
with helical and disordered components. This fitting yields model Stokes Q
profiles that agree with the observed profiles to within the 1-2 \sigma
uncertainties; the I model and observed profiles are overall not in such good
agreement, with the model I profiles being generally more symmetrical than the
observed profiles. Consistent fitting results are obtained for profiles derived
from 6cm VLBI images at two distances from the core, and also for profiles
obtained for different wavelengths at a single location in the VLBI jet. The
most striking success of the model is its ability to reproduce the spine-sheath
polarization structure observed across the jet. Using the derived viewing angle
in the jet rest frame, \delta' approximately 83 degrees, together with a
superluminal speed reported in the literature, \beta apparent = 3.3, yields a
solution for the viewing angle and velocity of the jet in the observer's frame
\delta degrees and \beta approximately 0.96. Although these results for Mrk501
must be considered tentative, the combined analysis of polarization profiles
and apparent component speeds holds promise as a means of further elucidating
the magnetic field structures and other parameters of parsec-scale AGN jets.