By analyzing the Chandra ACIS S3 data we studied the X-ray properties of the
low-mass and high-mass X-ray binary populations in the nearby spiral galaxy NGC
5055. A total of 43 X-ray point sources were detected within the 2 effective
radii, with 31 sources located on the disk and the rest 12 sources in the
bulge. The resolved point sources dominate the total X-ray emission of the
galaxy by accounting for about 80% of the total counts in 0.3--10 keV. By
carrying out the spectral fittings we calculated the 0.3--10.0 keV luminosities
of all the detected X-ray point sources and found that they span a wide range
from a few 10^{37} erg s^{-1} to over 10^{39} erg s^{-1}. After compensating
for the incompleteness at the low luminosity end, we find that the corrected
XLF of the bulge population is well fitted with a broken power-law model with a
break at 1.57^{+0.21}_{-0.20}\times 10^{38} erg s^{-1}, while the profile of
the disk population's XLF agrees with a single power-law distribution with a
slope of 0.93^{+0.07}_{-0.06}. The disk population is significantly richer at
{}^{>}_{\sim}2\times10^{38} erg s^{-1} than the bulge population, inferring
that the disk may have undergone relatively recent, strong starbursts that
significantly increased the HMXB population, although ongoing starbursts are
also observed in the nuclear region. Similar XLF profiles of the bulge and disk
populations were found in M81. However, in most other spiral galaxies different
patterns of the spatial variation of the XLF profiles from the bulge to the
disk have been observed, indicating that the star formation and evolution
history may be more complex than we have expected.