Several theories have been proposed to explain the development of harmful
algal blooms (HABs) produced by the toxic dinoflagellate \emph{Karenia brevis}
on the West Florida Shelf. However, because the early stages of HAB development
are usually not detected, these theories have been so far very difficult to
verify. In this paper we employ simulated \emph{Lagrangian coherent structures}
(LCSs) to trace the early location of a HAB in late 2004 before it was
transported to an area where it could be detected by satellite imagery, and
then we make use of a population dynamics model to infer the factors that may
have led to its development. The LCSs, which are computed based on a surface
flow description provided by an ocean circulation model, delineate past and
future histories of boundaries of passively advected fluid domains. The
population dynamics model determines nitrogen in two components, nutrients and
phytoplankton, which are assumed to be passively advected by the simulated
surface currents. Two nearshore nutrient sources are identified for the HAB
whose evolution is found to be strongly tied to the simulated LCSs. While one
nutrient source can be associated with a coastal upwelling event, the other is
seen to be produced by river runoff, which provides support to a theory of HAB
development that considers nutrient loading into coastal waters produced by
human activities as a critical element. Our results show that the use of
simulated LCSs and a population dynamics model can greatly enhance our
understanding of the early stages of the development of HABs.