A post-CME current sheet (CS) is a common feature developed behind an
erupting flux rope in CME models. Observationally, white light observations
have recorded many occurrences of a thin ray appearing behind a CME eruption
that closely resembles a post-CME CS in its spatial correspondence and
morphology. UV and X-ray observations further strengthen this interpretation by
the observations of high temperature emission at locations consistent with
model predictions. The next question then becomes whether the properties inside
a post-CME CS predicted by a model agree with observed properties. In this
work, we assume that the post-CME CS is a consequence of Petschek-like
reconnection and that the observed ray-like structure is bounded by a pair of
slow mode shocks developed from the reconnection site. We perform
time-dependent ionization calculations and model the UV line emission. We find
that such a model is consistent with SOHO/UVCS observations of the post-CME CS.
The change of Fe XVIII emission in one event implies an inflow speed of ~10
km/s and a corresponding reconnection rate of M_A ~ 0.01. We calculate the
expected X-ray emission for comparison with X-ray observations by Hinode/XRT,
as well as the ionic charge states as would be measured in-situ at 1 AU. We
find that the predicted count rate for Hinode/XRT agree with what was observed
in a post-CME CS on April 9, 2008, and the predicted ionic charge states are
consistent with high ionization states commonly measured in the interplanetary
CMEs. The model results depend strongly on the physical parameters in the
ambient corona, namely the coronal magnetic field, the electron density and
temperature during the CME event. It is crucial to obtain these ambient coronal
parameters and as many facets of the CS properties as possible by observational
means so that the post-CME current sheet models can be scrutinized more
effectively.