We present new sub-arcsecond (0.7'') Combined Array for Research in
Millimeter-wave Astronomy (CARMA) observations of the 1.3 mm continuum emission
from circumstellar disks around 11 low and intermediate mass pre-main sequence
stars. High resolution observations for 3 additional sources were obtained from
literature. In all cases the disk emission is spatially resolved. We adopt a
self consistent accretion disk model based on the similarity solution for the
disk surface density and constrain the dust radial density distribution on
spatial scales of about 40 AU. Disk surface densities appear to be correlated
with the stellar ages where the characteristic disk radius increases from ~ 20
AU to 100 AU over about 5 Myr. This disk expansion is accompanied by a decrease
in the mass accretion rate, suggesting that our sample disks form an
evolutionary sequence. Interpreting our results in terms of the temporal
evolution of a viscous $\alpha$-disk, we estimate (i) that at the beginning of
the disk evolution about 60% of the circumstellar material was located inside
radii of 25--40 AU, (ii) that disks formed with masses from 0.05 to 0.4
M$_{\sun}$ and (iii) that the viscous timescale at the disk initial radius is
about 0.1-0.3 Myr. Viscous disk models tightly link the surface density
$\Sigma(R)$ with the radial profile of the disk viscosity $\nu(R) \propto
R^{\gamma}$. We find values of $\gamma$ ranging from -0.8 to 0.8, suggesting
that the viscosity dependence on the orbital radius can be very different in
the observed disks. Adopting the $\alpha$ parameterization for the viscosity,
we argue that $\alpha$ must decrease with the orbital radius and that it may
vary between 0.5 and $10^{-4}$. (abridged)