Measurement of the substellar initial mass function (IMF) in very young
clusters is hampered by the possibility of the age spread of cluster members.
This is particularly serious for candidate planetary mass objects (PMOs), which
have a very similar location to older and more massive brown dwarfs on the
Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram (HRD). This degeneracy can be lifted by the
measurement of gravity-sensitive spectral features. To this end we have
obtained medium resolution (R~5000) Near-infrared Integral Field Spectrometer
(NIFS) K band spectra of a sample of late M- / early L-type dwarfs. The sample
comprises old field dwarfs and very young brown dwarfs in the Taurus
association and in the Sigma Orionis cluster. We demonstrate a positive
correlation between the strengths of the 2.21micron NaI doublet and the
objects' ages. We demonstrate a further correlation between these objects' ages
and the shape of their K band spectra. We have quantified this correlation in
the form of a new index, the H2(K) index. This index appears to be more
gravity-sensitive than the NaI doublet and has the advantage that it can be
computed for spectra where gravity-sensitive spectral lines are unresolved,
while it is also more sensitive to surface gravity at very young ages (<10 Myr)
than the triangular H band peak. Both correlations differentiate young objects
from field dwarfs, while the H2(K) index can distinguish, at least
statistically, populations of ~1 Myr objects from populations of ~10 Myr
objects. We applied the H2(K) index to NIFS data for one Orion nebula cluster
(ONC) PMO and to previously published low resolution spectra for several other
ONC PMOs where the 2.21micron NaI doublet was unresolved and concluded that the
average age of the PMOs is ~1 Myr.