We present an overview of our recent work on transport phenomena in Weyl
metals, which may be connected to their nontrivial topological properties,
particularly to chiral anomaly. We argue that there are two basic phenomena,
which are related to chiral anomaly in Weyl metals: Anomalous Hall Effect (AHE)
and Chiral Magnetic Effect (CME). While AHE is in principle present in any
ferromagnetic metal, we demonstrate that a magnetic Weyl metal is distinguished
from an ordinary ferromagnetic metal by the absence of the extrinsic and the
Fermi surface part of the intrinsic contributions to the AHE, as long as the
Fermi energy is sufficiently close to the Weyl nodes. The AHE in a Weyl metal
is thus shown to be a purely intrinsic, universal property, fully determined by
the location of the Weyl nodes in the first Brillouin zone. In other words, a
ferromagnetic Weyl metal may be thought of as the only example of a
ferromagnetic metal with a purely intrinsic AHE. We further develop a fully
microscopic theory of diffusive magnetotransport in Weyl metals. We derive
coupled diffusion equations for the total and axial (i.e. node-antisymmetric)
charge densities and show that chiral anomaly manifests as a
magnetic-field-induced coupling between them. We demonstrate that an
experimentally-observable consequence of CME in magnetotransport in Weyl metals
is a quadratic negative magnetoresistance, which will dominate all other
contributions to magnetoresistance under certain conditions and may be regarded
as a smoking-gun transport characteristic, unique to Weyl metals.