Recent research has unveiled the importance of online social networks for
improving the quality of recommender systems and encouraged the research
community to investigate better ways of exploiting the social information for
recommendations. To contribute to this sparse field of research, in this paper
we exploit users' interactions along three data sources (marketplace, social
network and location-based) to assess their performance in a barely studied
domain: recommending products and domains of interests (i.e., product
categories) to people in an online marketplace environment. To that end we
defined sets of content- and network-based user similarity features for each
data source and studied them isolated using an user-based Collaborative
Filtering (CF) approach and in combination via a hybrid recommender algorithm,
to assess which one provides the best recommendation performance.
Interestingly, in our experiments conducted on a rich dataset collected from
SecondLife, a popular online virtual world, we found that recommenders relying
on user similarity features obtained from the social network data clearly
yielded the best results in terms of accuracy in case of predicting products,
whereas the features obtained from the marketplace and location-based data
sources also obtained very good results in case of predicting categories. This
finding indicates that all three types of data sources are important and should
be taken into account depending on the level of specialization of the
recommendation task.