The detection of the afterglow emission and host galaxies of short-hard
gamma-ray bursts (SHBs) is one of the most exciting recent astronomical
discoveries. Indications that SHB progenitors belong to old stellar
populations, in contrast to those of the long-soft GRBs, provide a strong clue
about their physical nature. Definitive conclusions however are limited by the
small number of SHBs with known hosts. Here, we present our investigation of
SHBs previously localized by the interplanetary network (IPN) using new and
archival optical and X-ray observations. We show that we can likely identify
the host galaxies/clusters for additional two bursts, significantly increasing
the sample of SHBs with known hosts and/or distances. In particular, we
determine that the bright SHB 790613 occurred within the rich galaxy cluster
Abell 1892, making it probably the nearest SHB currently known. We show that
the brightest galaxy within the error box of SHB 000607, at z=0.14, is most
likely the host galaxy of this event. Additionally, we rule out the existence
of galaxy overdensities (down to ~21mag) near the locations of two other SHBs,
and set a lower limit on their probable redshift. We combine our SHB sample
with events discovered recently by the Swift and HETE-2 missions, and
investigate the properties of the extended sample. Comparison to SNe Ia shows
that the progenitors of SHBs are typically older, implying a typical life time
of several Gy. We also show that it is unlikely that there is a significant
population of progenitors with life time shorter than 1Gy. This result
disfavors the popular model of NS-NS mergers as the progenitors of SHBs.