Kepler has detected numerous exoplanet transits by precise measurements of
stellar light in a single visible-wavelength band. In addition to detection,
the precise photometry provides phase curves of exoplanets, which can be used
to study the dynamic processes on these planets. However, the interpretation of
these observations can be complicated by the fact that visible-wavelength phase
curves can represent both thermal emission and scattering from the planets.
Here we present a semi-analytical model framework that can be applied to study
Kepler and future visible-wavelength phase curve observations of exoplanets.
The model efficiently computes reflection and thermal emission components for
both rocky and gaseous planets, considering both homogeneous and inhomogeneous
surfaces or atmospheres. We analyze the phase curves of the gaseous planet
Kepler-7 b and the rocky planet Kepler-10 b using the model. In general, we
find that a hot exoplanet's visible-wavelength phase curve having a significant
phase offset can usually be explained by two classes of solutions: one class
requires a thermal hot spot shifted to one side of the substellar point, and
the other class requires reflective clouds concentrated on the same side of the
substellar point. The two solutions would require very different Bond albedos
to fit the same phase curve; atmospheric circulation models or eclipse
observations at longer wavelengths can effectively rule out one class of
solutions, and thus pinpoint the albedo of the planet, allowing decomposition
of the reflection and the thermal emission components in the phase curve.
Particularly for Kepler-7 b, reflective clouds located on the west side of the
substellar point can best explain its phase curve. We further derive that the
reflectivity of the clear part of the atmosphere should be less than 7% and
that of the cloudy part should be greater than 80% (abridged)