We present the results of a high-resolution X-ray imaging study of the
stellar population in the Galactic massive star-forming region RCW49 and its
central OB association Westerlund 2. We obtained a 40 ks X-ray image of a
17'x17' field using the Chandra X-ray Observatory and deep NIR images using the
Infrared Survey Facility in a concentric 8'3x8'3 region. We detected 468 X-ray
sources and identified optical, NIR, and Spitzer Space Telescope MIR
counterparts for 379 of them. The unprecedented spatial resolution and
sensitivity of the X-ray image, enhanced by optical and infrared imaging data,
yielded the following results: (1) The central OB association Westerlund 2 is
resolved for the first time in the X-ray band. X-ray emission is detected from
all spectroscopically-identified early-type stars in this region. (2) Most
(86%) X-ray sources with optical or infrared identifications are cluster
members in comparison with a control field in the Galactic Plane. (3) A loose
constraint (2--5 kpc) for the distance to RCW49 is derived from the mean X-ray
luminosity of T Tauri stars. (4) The cluster X-ray population consists of
low-mass pre--main-sequence and early-type stars as obtained from X-ray and NIR
photometry. About 30 new OB star candidates are identified. (5) We estimate a
cluster radius of 6'--7' based on the X-ray surface number density profiles.
(6) A large fraction (90%) of cluster members are identified individually using
complimentary X-ray and MIR excess emission. (7) The brightest five X-ray
sources, two Wolf-Rayet stars and three O stars, have hard thermal spectra.