[Abridged] We present an analysis of optical spectroscopically-identified AGN
to M*+1 in a sample of 6 self-similar SDSS galaxy clusters at z=0.07. These
clusters are specifically selected to lack significant substructure at bright
limits in their central regions so that we are largely able to eliminate the
local action of merging clusters on the frequency of AGN. We demonstrate that
the AGN fraction increases significantly from the cluster centre to 1.5Rvirial,
but tails off at larger radii. If only comparing the cluster core region to
regions at ~2Rvirial, no significant variation would be found. We compute the
AGN fraction by mass and show that massive galaxies (log(stellar mass)>10.7)
are host to a systematically higher fraction of AGN than lower mass galaxies at
all radii from the cluster centre. We attribute this deficit of AGN in the
cluster centre to the changing mix of galaxy types with radius. We use the WHAN
diagnostic to separate weak AGN from `retired' galaxies in which the main
ionization mechanism comes from old stellar populations. These retired AGN are
found at all radii, while the mass effect is much more pronounced: we find that
massive galaxies are more likely to be in the retired class. Further, we show
that our AGN have no special position inside galaxy clusters - they are neither
preferentially located in the infall regions, nor situated at local maxima of
galaxy density. However, we find that the most powerful AGN (with [OIII]
equivalent widths <-10Ang) reside at significant velocity offsets in the
cluster, and this brings our analysis into agreement with previous work on
X-ray selected AGN. Our results suggest that if interactions with other
galaxies are responsible for triggering AGN activity, the time-lag between
trigger and AGN enhancement must be sufficiently long to obfuscate the
encounter site and wipe out the local galaxy density signal.