We propose a qualitatively new mechanism for generating cosmological
fluctuations from inflation. The non-equilibrium excitation of interacting
scalar fields often evolves into infra-red (IR) and ultra-violet (UV)
cascading, resulting in an intermediate scaling regime. We observe elements of
this phenomenon in a simple model with inflaton \phi and iso-inflaton \chi
fields interacting during inflation via the coupling g^2 (\phi-\phi_0)^2
\chi^2. Iso-inflaton particles are created during inflation when they become
instantaneously massless at \phi=\phi_0, with occupation numbers not exceeding
unity. We point out that very quickly the produced \chi particles become heavy
and their multiple re-scatterings off the homogeneous condensate \phi(t)
generates bremschtrahlung radiation of light inflaton IR fluctuations with high
occupation numbers. The subsequent evolution of these IR fluctuations is
qualitatively similar to that of the usual inflationary fluctuations, but their
initial amplitude is different. The IR cascading generates a bump-shaped
contribution to the cosmological curvature fluctuations, which can even
dominate over the usual fluctuations for g^2>0.06. The IR cascading curvature
fluctuations are significantly non-gaussian and the strength and location of
the bump are model-dependent, through g^2 and \phi_0. The effect from IR
cascading fluctuations is significantly larger than that from the momentary
slowing-down of \phi(t). With a sequence of such bursts of particle production,
the superposition of the bumps can lead to a new broad band non-gaussian
component of cosmological fluctuations added to the usual fluctuations. Such a
sequence of particle creation events can, but need not, lead to trapped
inflation.