A major uncertainty in models for photoionised outflows in AGN is the
distance of the gas to the central black hole. We present the results of a
massive multiwavelength monitoring campaign on the bright Seyfert 1 galaxy Mrk
509 to constrain the location of the outflow components dominating the soft
X-ray band.
  Mrk 509 was monitored by XMM-Newton, Integral, Chandra, HST/COS and Swift in
2009. We have studied the response of the photoionised gas to the changes in
the ionising flux produced by the central regions. We were able to put tight
constraints on the variability of the absorbers from day to year time scales.
This allowed us to develop a model for the time-dependent photoionisation in
this source.
  We find that the more highly ionised gas producing most X-ray line opacity is
at least 5 pc away from the core; upper limits to the distance of various
absorbing components range between 20 pc up to a few kpc. The more lowly
ionised gas producing most UV line opacity is at least 100 pc away from the
nucleus.
  These results point to an origin of the dominant, slow (v<1000 km/s) outflow
components in the NLR or torus-region of Mrk 509. We find that while the
kinetic luminosity of the outflow is small, the mass carried away is likely
larger than the 0.5 Solar mass per year accreting onto the black hole.
  We also determined the chemical composition of the outflow as well as
valuable constraints on the different emission regions. We find for instance
that the resolved component of the Fe-K line originates from a region 40-1000
gravitational radii from the black hole, and that the soft excess is produced
by Comptonisation in a warm (0.2-1 keV), optically thick (tau~10-20) corona
near the inner part of the disk.