Applying the local density and dynamical mean field approximations to
paramagnetic \gamma-iron we revisit the problem of theoretical description of
magnetic properties in a wide temperature range. We show that contrary to
\alpha-iron, the frequency dependence of the electronic self-energy has a
quasiparticle form for both, t_{2g} and e_g states. In the temperature range
T=1200-1500 K, where \gamma-iron exist in nature, this substance can be
nevertheless characterized by temperature-dependent effective local moments,
which yield relatively narrow peaks in the real part of the local magnetic
susceptibility. At the same time, at low temperatures \gamma-iron (which is
realized in precipitates) is better described in terms of itinerant picture. In
particular, the nesting features of the Fermi surfaces yield maximum of the
static magnetic susceptibility at the incommensurate wave vector q_{max}
belonging the direction q_X-q_W (q_X=(2\pi/a)(1,0,0),q_W=(2\pi/a)(1,1/2,0), a
is a lattice parameter) in agreement with the experimental data. This state is
found however to compete closely with the states characterized by magnetic wave
vectors along the directions q_X-q_L-q_K, where q_L=(2\pi/a)(1/2,1/2,1/2),
q_K=(2\pi/a)(3/4,3/4,0). From the analysis of the uniform magnetic
susceptibility we find that contrary to \alpha-iron, the Curie-Weiss law is not
fulfilled in a broad temperature range, although the inverse susceptibility is
nearly linear in the moderate-temperature region (1200-1500 K). The
non-linearity of the inverse uniform magnetic susceptibility in a broader
temperature range is due to the density of states peak located close to the
Fermi level. The effective exchange integrals in the paramagnetic phase are
estimated on the base of momentum dependent susceptibility.