We apply the vanishing exotic commutator (VEC) model to study the flavor
properties of the light mesons. The study arose from conviction that these
properties are insufficiently recognized while the huge amount of experimental
observations collected during many decades gets silent. So we have much
information but little knowledge. The confirmation of glueball existence may be
a necessary step to get out of this situation.
  It is argued that the decuplet is a right place for seeking glueball - the
glueball exists if the decuplet exists. The decuplet is understood as a mixed
state of the glueball with $q\bar{q}$ nonet. The VEC model predicts two kinds
of the decuplets. We discuss the one which is a mixed state of the glueball
with the ideal nonet $q\bar{q}$ state. It satisfies the mass formula and
restricts the masses more than another one. We find that the mass of the
glueball-dominated isoscalar meson is located between the masses of the N and
S-dominated ones.
  We examine two candidates for tensor decuplets. One of them refers to ancient
hunting for glueball in the hope to explain anomalies of the nonet properties.
For a long time it was considered as a nonet. We argue that this multiplet may
be a decuplet whose nature was masked in unexpected way by the lack of room for
glueball. However, according to recent data, room exists due to the discovery
of anomalously large difference between the masses of neutral and charged
components of the $K_2^*(1430)$ meson. Another decuplet candidate, lying above,
accepts as a glueball-dominated state one of the $g_T$ mesons which were widely
discussed few decades ago.