We study the evolution of cooperation among selfish individuals in the
stochastic strategy spatial prisoner's dilemma game. We equip players with the
particle swarm optimization technique, and find that it may lead to highly
cooperative states even if the temptations to defect are strong. The concept of
particle swarm optimization was originally introduced within a simple model of
social dynamics that can describe the formation of a swarm, i.e., analogous to
a swarm of bees searching for a food source. Essentially, particle swarm
optimization foresees changes in the velocity profile of each player, such that
the best locations are targeted and eventually occupied. In our case, each
player keeps track of the highest payoff attained within a local topological
neighborhood and its individual highest payoff. Thus, players make use of their
own memory that keeps score of the most profitable strategy in previous
actions, as well as use of the knowledge gained by the swarm as a whole, to
find the best available strategy for themselves and the society. Following
extensive simulations of this setup, we find a significant increase in the
level of cooperation for a wide range of parameters, and also a full resolution
of the prisoner's dilemma. We also demonstrate extreme efficiency of the
optimization algorithm when dealing with environments that strongly favor the
proliferation of defection, which in turn suggests that swarming could be an
important phenomenon by means of which cooperation can be sustained even under
highly unfavorable conditions. We thus present an alternative way of
understanding the evolution of cooperative behavior and its ubiquitous presence
in nature, and we hope that this study will be inspirational for future efforts
aimed in this direction.