We performed time-resolved spectroscopic studies of the double-eclipsing
dwarf nova EX Dra (formerly HS 1804 + 6753) in order to locate line emitting
sites in the system. Optical spectra recorded during the quiescent as well as
during the outburst state have been analysed by means of Doppler tomography.
The computed Doppler images map the system in a variety of emission lines and
allow us to compare between different temperatures and accretion states.
  Our studies revealed that the Balmer and HeI emission of EX Dra during
quiescence is mainly formed within a fully established disk and within the gas
stream. The Doppler map of H_alpha shows a second emission spot in the
accretion disk located far from the region of interaction between the as stream
and the accretion disk.
  We have found a weak hint that secondary star emission contributes to the
H_alpha line in quiescence, obviously caused by photospheric heating due to
irradiation by the primary component. During outburst secondary star emission
turns into a very strong emission source in the Balmer lines due to the
increased accretion rate and an enhanced irradiation by the white dwarf or the
boundary layer. The Doppler maps of the Balmer and HeI lines during outburst
further show emission from the accretion disk. During outburst the gas stream
is rarely seen in the Balmer lines but clearly visible in HeI and shows that
the disk radius during this high accretion state is about 0.2 R_L1 larger than
during the recorded quiescent state.
  The origin of the CII (4267 Angstroem) line, which is only detectable during
outburst can be located by Doppler imaging close to the primary component and
may therefore be formed in the chromosphere of the white dwarf.