We present polarimetric observations in the UBVRI bands of 72 stars located
in the direction of the medium age open cluster NGC 5617. Our intention is to
use polarimetry as a tool membership identification, by building on previous
investigations intended mainly to determine the cluster's general
characteristics rather than provide membership suitable for studies such as
stellar content and metallicity, as well as study the characteristics of the
dust lying between the Sun and the cluster. The obsevations were carried out
using the five-channel photopolarimeter of the Torino Astronomical Observatory
attached to the 2.15m telescope at the Complejo Astron\'omico El Leoncito
(CASLEO; Argentina. We are able to add 32 stars to the list of members of NGC
5617, and review the situation for others listed in the literature. In
particular, we find that five blue straggler stars in the region of the cluster
are located behind the same dust as the member stars are and we confirm the
membership of two red giants. The proposed polarimetric memberships are
compared with those derived by photometric and kinematical methods, with
excellent results. Among the observed stars, we identify 10 with intrinsic
polarization in their light. NGC 5617 can be polarimetrically characterized
with $P_{max}= 4.40%$ and $ \theta_{v}= 73^\circ.1$. The spread in polarization
values for the stars observed in the direction of the cluster seems to be
caused by the uneven distribution of dust in front of the cluster's face.
Finally, we find that in the direction of the cluster, the interstellar medium
is apparently free of dust, from the Sun's position up to the
Carina-Sagittarius arm, where NGC 5617 seems to be located at its farthest
border.