Eclipsing binary systems with pulsating components allow the determination of
several physical parameters of the stars, such as mass and radius, that, when
combined with the pulsation properties, can be used to constrain the modeling
of stellar interiors and evolution. Hereby, we present the results of the study
of CoRoT 105906206, an eclipsing binary system with a pulsating component
located in the CoRoT LRc02 field. The analysis of the CoRoT light curve was
complemented by high-resolution spectra from the Sandiford at McDonald
Observatory and FEROS at ESO spectrographs, which revealed a double-lined
spectroscopic binary. We used an iterative procedure to separate the
pulsation-induced photometric variations from the eclipse signals. First, a
Fourier analysis was used to identify the significant frequencies and
amplitudes due to pulsations. Second, after removing the contribution of the
pulsations from the light curve we applied the PIKAIA genetic-algorithm
approach to derive the best parameters that describe the orbital properties of
the system. The light curve cleaned for pulsations contains the partial eclipse
of the primary and the total eclipse of the secondary. The system has an
orbital period of about 3.694 days and is formed by a primary star with mass M1
= 2.25 +/- 0.04 solar masses, radius R1 = 4.24 +/- 0.02 solar radii, and
effective temperature Teff1 = 6750 +/- 150 K, and a secondary with M2 = 1.29
+/- 0.03 solar masses, R2 = 1.34 +/- 0.01 solar radii, and Teff2 = 6152 +/- 162
K. The best solution for the parameters was obtained by taking into account the
asymmetric modulation observed in the light curve, known as the O'Connell
effect, presumably caused by Doppler beaming. The analysis of the Fourier
spectrum revealed that the primary component has p-mode pulsations in the range
5-13 c/d, which are typical of Delta Scuti type stars.