We carried out the first wide-area unbiased survey with the ASCA satellite in
the 0.7-10 keV band around a north Galactic-pole region covering a continuous
area of 7 square degrees (Large Sky Survey; LSS). To make the best use of ASCA
capability, we developed a new source-detection method where the complicated
detector responses are fully taken into account. Applying this method to the
entire LSS data independently in the total (0.7-7 keV), hard (2-10 keV), and
soft (0.7-2 keV) band, we detected 107 sources altogether with sensitivity
limits of 6 x 10E-14 (0.7-7 keV), 1 x 10E-13 (2-10 keV), and 2 x 10E-14 erg
sE-1 cmE-2 (0.7-2 keV), respectively. A complete list of the detected sources
is presented. Based on detailed studies by Monte Carlo simulations, we
evaluated effects of the source confusion and accurately derived Log N - Log S
relation in each survey band. The Log N - Log S relation in the hard band is
located on the extrapolation from the GINGA and HEAO1 results with the
Euclidean slope of -3/2, while that in the soft band is consistent with the
results by ROSAT. At these flux limits, 30 (+/- 3) percent of the CXB in the
0.7-7 keV band and 23 (+/- 3) percent in the 2-10 keV band have been resolved
into discrete sources. The average spectrum of faint sources detected in the
total band shows a photon index of 1.63 +/- 0.07 in the 0.7-10 keV range,
consistent with the comparison of source counts between the hard and the soft
energy band. Those detected in the hard band show a photon index of 1.49 +/-
0.10 in the 2-10 keV range. These spectral properties suggest that contribution
of sources with hard energy spectra become significant at a flux of 10E-13 erg
sE-1 cmE-2 (2-10 keV). The most plausible candidates are type-II AGNs, as
indicated by on-going optical identifications.