We present results from a temporal analysis of the longest and the most
sensitive X-ray observations of TV Columbae--an intermediate polar. The
observations were carried out with the RXTE PCA, ROSAT PSPC, and ASCA. Data
were analyzed using a 1-dimensional CLEAN and Bayesian algorithms. The presence
of a nearly sinusoidal modulation due to the spin of the white dwarf is seen
clearly in all the data, confirming the previous reports based on the EXOSAT
data. An improved period of 1909.7+/-2.5s is derived for the spin from the RXTE
data.The binary period of 5.5hr is detected unambiguously in X-rays for the
first time. Several side-bands due to the interaction of these periods are
observed in the power spectra, thereby suggesting contributions from both the
disk-fed and the stream-fed accretion for TV Col. The accretion disk could
perhaps be precessing as side-bands due to the influence of 4 day period on the
orbital period are seen. The presence of a significant power at certain
side-bands of the spin frequency indicates that the emission poles are
asymmetrically located. The strong power at the orbital side-bands seen in both
the RXTE and ROSAT data gives an indication for an absorption site fixed in the
orbital frame. Both the spin and the binary modulation are found to be
energy-dependent. Increased hardness ratio during a broad dip in the intensity
at binary phase of 0.75--1.0 confirms the presence of a strong attenuation due
to additional absorbers probably from an impact site of the accretion stream
with the disk or magnetosphere. Hardness ratio variations and the energy
dependent modulation depth during the spin modulation can be explained by
partially covered absorbers in the path of X-ray emission region in the
accretion stream.