State-of-the-art Doppler experiments require wavelength calibration with
precision at the cm/s level. A low-finesse Fabry-Perot interferometer (FPI) can
provide a wavelength comb with a very large bandwidth as required for
astronomical experiments, but unavoidable spectral drifts are difficult to
control. Instead of actively controlling the FPI cavity, we propose to
passively stabilize the interferometer and track the time-dependent cavity
length drift externally. A dual-finesse cavity allows drift tracking during
observation. The drift of the cavity length is monitored in the high-finesse
range relative to an external standard: a single narrow transmission peak is
locked to an external cavity diode laser and compared to an atomic frequency.
Following standard locking schemes, tracking at sub-mm/s precision can be
achieved. This is several orders of magnitude better than currently planned
high-precision Doppler experiments. It allows freedom for relaxed designs
rendering this approach particularly interesting for upcoming Doppler
experiments. We also show that the large number of interference modes used in
an FPI allows us to unambiguously identify the interference mode of each FPI
transmission peak defining its absolute wavelength solution. The accuracy
reached in each resonance with the laser concept is then defined by the cavity
length that is determined from the one locked peak and by the group velocity
dispersion. The latter can vary by several 100m/s over the relevant frequency
range and severely limits the accuracy of individual peak locations. A
potential way to determine the absolute peak positions is to externally measure
the frequency of each individual peak with a laser frequency comb (LFC). Thus,
the concept of laser-locked FPIs may be useful for applying the absolute
accuracy of an LFC to astronomical spectrographs without the need for an LFC at
the observatory.