The Coma cluster was the target of a HST-ACS Treasury program designed for
deep imaging in the F475W and F814W passbands. Although our survey was
interrupted by the ACS instrument failure in 2007, the partially completed
survey still covers ~50% of the core high-density region in Coma. Observations
were performed for 25 fields that extend over a wide range of cluster-centric
radii (~1.75 Mpc) with a total coverage area of 274 arcmin^2. The majority of
the fields are located near the core region of Coma (19/25 pointings) with six
additional fields in the south-west region of the cluster. In this paper we
present reprocessed images and SExtractor source catalogs for our survey
fields, including a detailed description of the methodology used for object
detection and photometry, the subtraction of bright galaxies to measure faint
underlying objects, and the use of simulations to assess the photometric
accuracy and completeness of our catalogs. We also use simulations to perform
aperture corrections for the SExtractor Kron magnitudes based only on the
measured source flux and half-light radius. We have performed photometry for
~73,000 unique objects; one-half of our detections are brighter than the
10-sigma point-source detection limit at F814W=25.8 mag (AB). The slight
majority of objects (60%) are unresolved or only marginally resolved by ACS. We
estimate that Coma members are 5-10% of all source detections, which consist of
a large population of unresolved objects (primarily GCs but also UCDs) and a
wide variety of extended galaxies from a cD galaxy to dwarf LSB galaxies. The
red sequence of Coma member galaxies has a constant slope and dispersion across
9 magnitudes (-21<M_F814W<-13). The initial data release for the HST-ACS Coma
Treasury program was made available to the public in 2008 August. The images
and catalogs described in this study relate to our second data release.