The nearby barred spiral galaxy NGC 1672 is thought to have a weak Seyfert
nucleus in addition to its strong starburst activity. Observations with the
PSPC and HRI instruments on board the ROSAT X-ray satellite show that three
X-ray sources with luminosities (1--2)\times 10^{40} erg/s are clearly
identified with NGC 1672. The strongest X-ray source lies at the nucleus, and
the other two lie near the ends of the prominent bar, locations that are also
bright in H-alpha and near-infrared images. The nuclear source is resolved by
the HRI on about the scale of the recently identified nuclear ring, and one of
the sources at the ends of the bar is also probably resolved. The X-ray
spectrum of the nuclear source is quite soft, having a Raymond--Smith plasma
temperature of about 0.7 keV and little evidence for intrinsic absorption. The
ROSAT band X-ray flux of the nuclear source appears to be dominated not by
X-ray binary emission but rather by diffuse gas emission. While the properties
of the nuclear source are generally supportive of a superbubble interpretation,
its large density and emission measure stretch the limits that can be
comfortably accommodated by such models. We do not detect direct emission from
the putative Seyfert nucleus, although an alternative model for the nuclear
source is thermal emission from gas that is photoionized by a hidden Seyfert
nucleus. The spectra of the other two X-ray sources are harder than that of the
nuclear source, and superbubble models for them have the same strengths and
weaknesses.