A particle-in-cell code is used to examine contributions of the pickup ions
(PIs) and the solar wind ions (SWs) to the cross shock electric field at the
supercritical, perpendicular shocks. The code treats the pickup ions
self-consistently as a third component. Herein, two different runs with
relative pickup ion density of 25% and 55% are presented in this paper. Present
preliminary results show that: (1) in the low percentage (25%) pickup ion case,
the shock front is nonstationary. During the evolution of this perpendicular
shock, a nonstationary foot resulting from the reflected solar wind ions is
formed in front of the old ramp, and its amplitude becomes larger and larger.
At last, the nonstationary foot grows up into a new ramp and exceeds the old
one. Such a nonstationary process can be formed periodically. hen the new ramp
begins to be formed in front of the old ramp, the Hall term mainly contributed
by the solar wind ions becomes more and more important. The electric field Ex
is dominated by the Hall term when the new ramp exceeds the old one.
Furthermore, an extended and stationary foot in pickup ion gyro-scale is
located upstream of the nonstationary/self-reforming region within the shock
front, and is always dominated by the Lorentz term contributed by the pickup
ions; (2) in the high percentage (55%) pickup ion case, the amplitude of the
stationary foot is increased as expected. One striking point is that the
nonstationary region of the shock front evidenced by the self-reformation
disappears. Instead, a stationary extended foot dominated by Lorentz term
contributed by the pickup ions, and a tationary ramp dominated by Hall term
contributed by the solar wind ions are clearly evidenced. The significance of
the cross electric field on ion dynamics is also discussed.