We present two wide-field (5'x5'), diffraction limited, broad-band 10 and 20
micron images of the Orion Nebula, plus six 7-13 micron narrow-band images of
BN/KL taken at the 3.8m UKIRT telescope. The wide-field images are mosaics of
35"x35" frames reconstructed using a new restoration method developed for this
project. They show the filamentary structure of the dust emission and reveal a
new remarkable group of arc-like structures ~1' to the South of the Trapezium.
The morphology of the Ney-Allen nebula suggests a complex kinematical status at
the center of the Cluster. We find indications that the B0.5V star theta1
Ori-D, is surrounded by a photoevaporated circumstellar disk. Among the four
historic Trapezium OB stars, this is the only one without a binary companion,
suggesting that stellar multiplicity and the presence of massive circumstellar
disks may be mutually exclusive. In the BN/KL complex we detect optically thin
silicate emission on top of the deep 10 micron absorption feature. We map the
foreground optical depth, color temperature and mid-IR luminosity of the
embedded sources. We resolve a conspicuous point source at the location of the
IRc2-A knot. The spectral profile of the 10 micron feature is compatible with
grain crystallization. We detect several point sources In the OMC-1 South
region and discuss their association with the mass loss observed at optical and
mm wavelengths. Finally, we list the position and photometry of 177 point
sources. With two possible exceptions, all point sources detected at shorter
wavelengths display 10 micron emission well above the photospheric level. The
model of Robberto et al. (2002, ApJ, 578, 897) provides the simplest
explanation for the mid-IR excess.