If the Pioneer Anomaly (PA) was a genuine dynamical effect of gravitational
origin, it should also affect the orbital motions of the solar system's bodies
moving in the space regions in which the PA manifested itself in its presently
known form, i.e. as a constant and uniform acceleration approximately directed
towards the Sun with a non-zero magnitude APio = (8.74 +/- 1.33) x 10^-10 m
s^-2 after 20 au from the Sun. In this paper we preliminarily investigate its
effects on the orbital motions of the Neptunian satellites Triton, Nereid and
Proteus, located at about 30 au from the Sun, both analytically and
numerically. Extensive observational records covering sev- eral orbital
revolutions have recently been analyzed for them, notably improving the
knowledge of their orbits. Both analytical and numerical calculations, limited
to the direct, Neptune-satellite interaction, show that the peak-to-peak
amplitudes of the PA-induced radial, transverse and out-of-plane perturbations
over one century are up to 300 km, 600 km, 8 m for Triton, 17,500 km, 35,000
km, 800 km for Nereid, and 60 km, 120 km, 30 m for Proteus. The corresponding
orbital uncertainties ob- tained from a recent analysis of all the data
available for the satellites considered are, in general, smaller by one-two
orders of magnitude, although obtained without modeling a Pioneer-like
extra-force. Further investigations based on a re-processing of the satellites'
real or simulated data with modified equations of motions including an
additional Pioneer-type force as well are worth being implemented and may shed
further light on this important issue.