We propose the QoS-aware BS-selection and the corresponding
resource-allocation schemes for downlink multi-user transmissions over the
distributed multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) links, where multiple
location-independent base-stations (BS), controlled by a central server,
cooperatively transmit data to multiple mobile users. Our proposed schemes aim
at minimizing the BS usages and reducing the interfering range of the
distributed MIMO transmissions, while satisfying diverse statistical delay-QoS
requirements for all users, which are characterized by the delay-bound
violation probability and the effective capacity technique. Specifically, we
propose two BS-usage minimization frameworks to develop the QoS-aware
BS-selection schemes and the corresponding wireless resource-allocation
algorithms across multiple mobile users. The first framework applies the joint
block-diagonalization (BD) and probabilistic transmission (PT) to implement
multiple access over multiple mobile users, while the second one employs
time-division multiple access (TDMA) approach to control multiple users' links.
We then derive the optimal BS-selection schemes for these two frameworks,
respectively. In addition, we further discuss the PT-only based BS-selection
scheme. Also conducted is a set of simulation evaluations to comparatively
study the average BS-usage and interfering range of our proposed schemes and to
analyze the impact of QoS constraints on the BS selections for distributed MIMO
transmissions.