Resonance capture is studied numerically in the three-body problem for
arbitrary inclinations. Massless particles are set to drift from outside the
1:5 resonance with a Jupiter-mass planet thereby encountering the web of the
planet's diverse mean motion resonances. Randomly constructed samples explore
parameter space for inclinations from 0 to 180 deg with 5deg increments
totalling nearly 6x10^5 numerical simulations. Thirty resonances internal and
external to the planet's location are monitored. We find that retrograde
resonances are unexpectedly more efficient at capture than prograde resonances
and that resonance order is not necessarily a good indicator of capture
efficiency at arbitrary inclination. Capture probability drops significantly at
moderate sample eccentricity for initial inclinations in the range
[10deg,110deg]. Orbit inversion is possible for initially circular orbits with
inclinations in the range [60deg,130deg]. Capture in the 1:1 coorbital
resonance occurs with great likelihood at large retrograde inclinations. The
planet's orbital eccentricity, if larger than 0.1, reduces the capture
probabilities through the action of the eccentric Kozai-Lidov mechanism. A
capture asymmetry appears between inner and outer resonances as prograde orbits
are preferentially trapped in inner resonances. The relative capture efficiency
of retrograde resonance suggests that the dynamical lifetimes of Damocloids and
Centaurs on retrograde orbits must be significantly larger than those on
prograde orbits implying that the recently identified asteroids in retrograde
resonance, 2006 BZ8, 2008 SO218, 2009 QY6 and 1999 LE31(Morais and Namouni,
2013, MNRAS 436, L30) may be among the oldest small bodies that wander between
the outer giant planets.