We detect the 21 cm line of neutral hydrogen in absorption at a redshift of
0.673 towards the 1 Jy radio source 1504+377. The 1504+377 radio source is
located toward the center of what appears to be an inclined disk galaxy at z =
0.674. The 21 cm absorption line shows multiple velocity components over a
velocity range of about 100 km sec$^{-1}$, with a total HI column density:
N(HI) = $3.8\times10^{19}\times({{T_s}\over{f}})$ cm$^{-2}$. The
velocity-integrated optical depth of this system is the largest yet seen for
redshifted HI 21 cm absorption line systems (Carilli 1995). The 21 cm
absorption line is coincident in redshift with a previously detected broad
molecular absorption line system (Wiklind and Combes 1996). We do not detect HI
21 cm absorption associated with the narrow molecular absorption line system at
z = 0.67150, nor do we detect absorption at these redshifts by the 18 cm lines
of OH, nor by the 2 cm transition of H$_2$CO. There is no evidence for a bright
optical AGN in 1504+377, suggesting significant obscuration through the disk --
a hypothesis supported by the strong absorption observed. The 1504+377 system
resembles the ``red quasar'' PKS 1413+135, which has been modeled as a
optically obscured AGN with a very young radio jet in the center of a gas rich
disk galaxy (Perlman et al. 1996). The presence of very bright radio jets at
the centers of these two disk galaxies presents a challenge to unification
schemes for extragalactic radio sources and to models for the formation of
radio loud AGN.