In many ways, the HR8799 system resembles our Solar system more closely than
any other discovered to date - albeit on a larger, younger, and more dramatic
scale - featuring four giant planets and two debris belts. The first belt lies
beyond the orbit of the outer planet, and mirrors our Solar system's
Edgeworth-Kuiper belt. The second belt lies interior to the orbit of the inner
planet, HR8799e, and is analogous to our Asteroid Belt. With such a similar
architecture, the system is a valuable laboratory for examining exoplanet
dynamics, and the interaction between debris disks and planets.
  In recent years, HR8799's outer disk has been relatively well characterised,
primarily using the Herschel Space Observatory. In contrast, the inner disk,
too close to HR8799 to be spatially resolved by Herschel, remains poorly
understood. This leaves significant questions over both the location of the
planetesimals responsible for producing the observed dust, and the physical
properties of those grains.
  We have performed extensive simulations of HR8799's inner, unresolved debris
belt, using UNSW Australia's supercomputing facility, Katana. Here, we present
the results of integrations following the evolution of a belt of dynamically
hot debris interior to the orbit of HR8799e, for a period of 60 Myr, using an
initial population of 500,000 massless test particles. These simulations have
enable the characterisation of the extent and structure of the inner belt,
revealing that its outer edge must lie interior to the 3:1 mean-motion
resonance with HR8799, at approximately 7.5au, and highlighting the presence of
fine structure analogous to the Solar system's Kirkwood gaps. In the future,
out results will allow us to calculate a first estimate of the small-body
impact rate and water delivery prospects for any potential terrestrial
planet(s) that might lurk, undetected, in the inner system.