Models of diffusion MRI within a voxel are useful for making inferences about
the properties of the tissue and inferring fiber orientation distribution used
by tractography algorithms. A useful model must fit the data accurately.
However, evaluations of model-accuracy of some of the models that are commonly
used in analyzing human white matter have not been published before. Here, we
evaluate model-accuracy of the two main classes of diffusion MRI models. The
diffusion tensor model (DTM) summarizes diffusion as a 3-dimensional Gaussian
distribution. Sparse fascicle models (SFM) summarize the signal as a linear sum
of signals originating from a collection of fascicles oriented in different
directions. We use cross-validation to assess model-accuracy at different
gradient amplitudes (b-values) throughout the white matter. Specifically, we
fit each model to all the white matter voxels in one data set and then use the
model to predict a second, independent data set. This is the first evaluation
of model-accuracy of these models. In most of the white matter the DTM predicts
the data more accurately than test-retest reliability; SFM model-accuracy is
higher than test-retest reliability and also higher than the DTM, particularly
for measurements with (a) a b-value above 1000 in locations containing fiber
crossings, and (b) in the regions of the brain surrounding the optic
radiations. The SFM also has better parameter-validity: it more accurately
estimates the fiber orientation distribution function (fODF) in each voxel,
which is useful for fiber tracking.