We present an all-sky catalog of M dwarf stars with apparent infrared
magnitude J<10. The 8,889 stars are selected from the ongoing SUPERBLINK survey
of stars with proper motion >40 mas/yr, supplemented on the bright end with the
TYCHO-2 catalog. Completeness tests which account for kinematic (proper motion)
bias suggest that our catalog represents ~75% of the estimated ~11,900 M dwarfs
with J<10 expected to populate the entire sky. Our catalog is, however,
significantly more complete for the Northern sky (~90%) than it is for the
South (~60%). Stars are identified as cool, red M dwarfs from a combination of
optical and infrared color cuts, and are distinguished from background M giants
and highly-reddened stars using either existing parallax measurements or, if
such measurements are lacking, on their location in an optical-to-infrared
reduced proper motion diagram. These bright M dwarfs are all prime targets for
exoplanet surveys using the Doppler radial velocity or transit methods; the
combination of low-mass and bright apparent magnitude should make possible the
detection of Earth-size planets on short-period orbits using currently
available techniques. Parallax measurements, when available, and photometric
distance estimates are provided for all stars, and these place most systems
within 60 parsecs of the Sun. Spectral type estimated from V-J color shows that
most of the stars range from K7 to M4, with only a few late M dwarfs, all
within 20 pc. Proximity to the Sun also makes these stars good targets for
high-resolution exoplanet imaging searches, especially if younger objects can
be identified on the basis of X-ray or UV excess. For that purpose, we include
X-ray flux from ROSAT and FUV/NUV ultraviolet magnitudes from GALEX for all
stars for which a counterpart can be identified in those catalogs.