In this work we develop an ordinary differential equations (ODE) model of
physiological regulation of glycemia in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM)
patients in response to meals and intravenous insulin infusion. Unlike for the
majority of existing mathematical models of glucose-insulin dynamics,
parameters in our model are estimable from a relatively small number of noisy
observations of plasma glucose and insulin concentrations. For estimation, we
adopt the generalized smoothing estimation of nonlinear dynamic systems of
Ramsay et al. [J. R. Stat. Soc. Ser. B Stat. Methodol. 69 (2007) 741-796]. In
this framework, the ODE solution is approximated with a penalized spline, where
the ODE model is incorporated in the penalty. We propose to optimize the
generalized smoothing by using penalty weights that minimize the covariance
penalties criterion (Efron [J. Amer. Statist. Assoc. 99 (2004) 619-642]). The
covariance penalties criterion provides an estimate of the prediction error for
nonlinear estimation rules resulting from nonlinear and/or nonhomogeneous ODE
models, such as our model of glucose-insulin dynamics. We also propose to
select the optimal number and location of knots for B-spline bases used to
represent the ODE solution. The results of the small simulation study
demonstrate advantages of optimized generalized smoothing in terms of smaller
estimation errors for ODE parameters and smaller prediction errors for
solutions of differential equations. Using the proposed approach to analyze the
glucose and insulin concentration data in T1DM patients, we obtained good
approximation of global glucose-insulin dynamics and physiologically meaningful
parameter estimates.