The circumstellar disk of AB Aurigae has garnered strong attention owing to
the apparent existence of spirals at a relatively young stage and also the
asymmetric disk traced in thermal dust emission. However, the physical
conditions of the spirals are still not well understood. The origin of the
asymmetric thermal emission is unclear.
  We observed the disk at 230 GHz (1.3 mm) in both the continuum and the
spectral line ^12CO J=2-1 with IRAM 30-m, the Plateau de Bure interferometer,
and the Submillimeter Array to sample all spatial scales from 0.37" to about
50". To combine the data obtained from these telescopes, several methods and
calibration issues were checked and discussed.
  The 1.3 mm continuum (dust) emission is resolved into inner disk and outer
ring. Molecular gas at high velocities traced by the CO line is detected next
to the stellar location. The inclination angle of the disk is found to decrease
toward the center. On a larger scale, based on the intensity weighted
dispersion and the integrated intensity map of ^12CO J=2-1, four spirals are
identified, where two of them are also detected in the near infrared. The total
gas mass of the 4 spirals (M_spiral) is 10^-7 < M_spiral < 10^-5 M_sun, which
is 3 orders of magnitude smaller than the mass of the gas ring. Surprisingly,
the CO gas inside the spiral is apparently counter-rotating with respect to the
CO disk, and it only exhibits small radial motion.
  The wide gap, the warped disk, and the asymmetric dust ring suggest that
there is an undetected companion with a mass of 0.03 M_sun at a radius of 45
AU. Although an hypothetical fly-by cannot be ruled out, the most likely
explanation of the AB Aurigae system may be inhomogeneous accretion well above
or below the main disk plane from the remnant envelope, which can explain both
the rotation and large-scale motions detected with the 30-m image.