The Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) combines large
collecting area and location on a high dry site to provide it with unparalleled
potential for sensitive millimeter/submillimeter spectral line observations.
Its wide frequency coverage, superb receivers and flexible spectrometer will
ensure that its potential is met. Since the 1999 meeting on ALMA
Science\cite{RefA}, the ALMA team has substantially enhanced its capability for
line observations. ALMA's sensitivity increased when Japan joined the project,
bringing the 16 antennas of the Atacama Compcat Array (ACA), equivalent to
eight additional 12m telescopes. The first four receiver cartridges for the
baseline ALMA (Japan's entry has brought two additional bands to ALMA's
receiver retinue) have been accepted, with performance above the
already-challenging specifications. ALMA's flexibility has increased with the
enhancement of the baseline correlator with additional channels and
flexibility, and with the addition of a separate correlator for the ACA. As an
example of the increased flexibility, ALMA is now capable of
multi-spectral-region and multi-resolution modes. With the former, one might
observe e.g. four separate transitions anywhere within a 2 GHz band with a high
resolution bandwidth. With the latter, one might simultaneously observe with
low spectral resolution over a wide bandwidth and with high spectral resolution
over a narrow bandwidth; this mode could be useful for observations of
pressure-broadened lines with narrow cores, for example. Several science
examples illustrate ALMA's potential for transforming millimeter and
submillimeter astronomy.