Using the quantum-mechanical approach combined with the image charge method
we calculated the lowest energy levels of the impurities and neutral vacancies
with two electrons or holes located in the vicinity of flat surface of
different solids. We obtained that the magnetic triplet state is the ground
state of the impurities and neutral vacancies in the vicinity of surface, while
the nonmagnetic singlet is the ground state in the bulk for e.g. He atom, Li+,
Be++, etc. ions. The energy difference between the lowest triplet and singlet
states strongly depends on the electron (hole) effective mass, dielectric
permittivity of the solid and the distance from the surface. Pair interaction
of the identical surface defects (two doubly charged impurities or vacancies
with two electrons or holes) reveals the ferromagnetic spin state with the
maximal exchange energy at the definite distance between the defects (~5-25
nm). We obtained that the nonmagnetic singlet state is the lowest one for a
molecule with two electrons formed by a pair of identical surface impurities
(like surface hydrogen), while its next state with deep enough negative energy
minimum is the magnetic triplet. The metastable magnetic triplet state appeared
for such molecule at the surface indicates the possibility of metastable
orto-states of the hydrogen-like molecules, while they are absent in the bulk
of material. We hope that obtained results could provide an alternative
mechanism of the room temperature ferromagnetism observed in TiO2, HfO2, and
In2O3 thin films with contribution of the oxygen vacancies.