The majority of stars reside in multiple systems, especially binaries. The
formation and early evolution of binaries is a longstanding problem in star
formation that is not fully understood. In particular, how the magnetic field
observed in star-forming cores shapes the binary characteristics remains
relatively unexplored. We demonstrate numerically, using the ENZO-MHD code,
that a magnetic field of the observed strength can drastically change two of
the basic quantities of a binary system: the orbital separation and mass ratio
of the two components. Our calculations focus on the protostellar mass
accretion phase, after a pair of stellar 'seeds' have already formed. We find
that, in dense cores magnetized to a realistic level, the angular momentum of
the gas accreted by the protobinary is greatly reduced by magnetic braking.
Accretion of strongly braked material shrinks the protobinary separation by a
large factor compared to the non-magnetic case. The magnetic braking also
changes the evolution of the mass ratio of unequal-mass protobinaries by
producing gas of low specific angular momentum that accretes preferentially
onto the primary rather than the secondary. This is in contrast with the
preferential mass accretion onto the secondary previously found for
protobinaries accreting from an unmagnetized envelope, which tends to drive the
mass ratio towards unity. In addition, the magnetic field greatly modifies the
morphology and dynamics of the protobinary accretion flow. It suppresses the
circumstellar and circumbinary disks that feed the protobinary in the
non-magnetic case; the binary is fed instead by a fast collapsing pseudodisk
whose rotation is strongly braked. The magnetic braking-driven inward migration
of binaries from their birth locations may be constrained by high-resolution
observations of the orbital distribution of deeply embedded protobinaries,
especially with ALMA.