We present spatially resolved far-UV spectra (912-1840 A) of NGC 1068
obtained using the Hopkins Ultraviolet Telescope (HUT) during the March 1995
Astro-2 mission. Three spectra of this prototypical Seyfert 2 galaxy were
obtained through a 12 arcsec diameter aperture centered on different locations
near the nucleus. The first pointing (A1) was centered west of the optical
nucleus; the nucleus was on the eastern edge of the aperture. The second (A2)
was centered southwest of the optical nucleus with the nucleus well inside the
aperture. The third (B) was centered on the ionization cone, with the nucleus
on the southwestern edge of the aperture. While all three aperture locations
have spectra similar to the Astro-1 observations of Kriss et al., these new
spatially resolved observations localize the source of the far-UV line and
continuum emission. The ionization cone (B) has both brighter emission lines
and continuum than the nucleus (A2). A1 is fainter than either A2 or B in both
lines and continuum. The far-UV emission lines observed with HUT have a spatial
distribution that most similar to [O III] 5007, but appear to be more extended
and offset to the northeast along the axis of the radio jet. This supports the
previous conclusion of Kriss et al. that the bright C III 977 and N III 991
arises in shock-heated gas. The UV continuum radiation has a more extended
spatial distribution than the line-emitting gas. At wavelengths longward of
1200 A the inferred continuum distribution is consistent with that seen in
archival HST/WFPC2 F218W images, and it appears to contain a substantial
contribution from starlight. At wavelengths shorter than 1200 A, the UV
continuum becomes more concentrated in the ionization cone, consistent with
nuclear flux scattered by hot electrons and dust.