We investigate the approach to catastrophic failure in a model porous
granular material undergoing uniaxial compression. A discrete element
computational model is used to simulate both the micro-structure of the
material and the complex dynamics and feedbacks involved in local fracturing
and the production of crackling noise. Under strain-controlled loading
micro-cracks initially nucleate in an uncorrelated way all over the sample. As
loading proceeds the damage localizes into a narrow damage band inclined at
30-45 degrees to the load direction. Inside the damage band the material is
crushed into a poorly-sorted mixture of mainly fine powder hosting some larger
fragments. The mass probability density distribution of particles in the damage
zone is a power law of exponent 2.1, similar to a value of 1.87 inferred from
observations of the length distribution of wear products (gouge) in natural and
laboratory faults. Dynamic bursts of radiated energy, analogous to acoustic
emissions observed in laboratory experiments on porous sedimentary rocks, are
identified as correlated trails or cascades of local ruptures that emerge from
the stress redistribution process. As the system approaches macroscopic failure
consecutive bursts become progressively more correlated. Their size
distribution is also a power law, with an equivalent Gutenberg-Richter b-value
of 1.22 averaged over the whole test, ranging from 3 down to 0.5 at the time of
failure, all similar to those observed in laboratory tests on granular
sandstone samples. The formation of the damage band itself is marked by a
decrease in the average distance between consecutive bursts and an emergent
power law correlation integral of event locations with a correlation dimension
of 2.55, also similar to those observed in the laboratory (between 2.75 and
2.25).