We present the data from a mid-infrared imaging survey of 66 proto-planetary
nebula candidates using two mid-IR cameras (MIRAC2 and Berkcam) at the NASA
Infrared Telescope Facility and the United Kingdom Infrared Telescope. The goal
of this survey is to determine the size, flux, and morphology of the mid-IR
emission regions, which sample the inner regions of the circumstellar dust
shells of proto-planetary nebulae. We imaged these proto-planetary nebulae with
narrow-band filters ($\Delta\lambda / \lambda \sim 10%$) at wavelengths of
notable dust features. With our typical angular resolution of 1\arcsec, we
resolve 17 sources, find 48 objects unresolved, and do not detect 1 source. For
several sources, we checked optical and infrared associations and positions of
the sources. In table format, we list the size and flux measurements for all
the detected objects and show figures of all the resolved sources. Images for
all the detected objects are available on line in FITS format from the
Astronomy Digital Image Library at the National Center for Supercomputing
Application. The proto-planetary nebula candidate sample includes, in addition
to the predominant proto-planetary nebulae, extreme asymptotic giant branch
stars, young planetary nebulae, a supergiant, and a luminous blue variable. We
find that dust shells which are cooler ($\rm T \sim 150$ K) and brighter in the
infrared are more easily resolved. Eleven of the seventeen resolved sources are
extended and fall into one of two types of mid-IR morphological classes:
core/elliptical or toroidal. Core/elliptical structures show unresolved cores
with lower surface brightness elliptical nebulae. Toroidal structures show
limb-brightened peaks suggesting equatorial density enhancements. We argue that
core/ellipticals have denser dust shells than toroidals.