We have determined the fundamental properties and distance of a fourth
eclipsing binary system (EB) in the Large Magellanic Cloud, HV5936 (B0.5 V + B2
III). As in our previous studies, we combine "classical" EB light curve and
radial velocity curve analyses with modeling of the UV-through-optical spectral
energy distribution of HV5936 to produce a detailed characterization of the
system. In this paper, we also include an analysis of the high-resolution
optical absorption line spectra of the binary components. We find HV5936 to be
an Algol-class system, in which the masses of the primary and secondary stars
have evolved via mass transfer to their current values of 11.6 Mo and 4.7 Mo,
respectively. The properties of the primary star are indistinguishable from
those of a "normal" star of the same current mass. The secondary is found to be
overluminous for its current mass and exhibits a factor-of-2 enhancement in its
surface He abundance. These results are compatible with "Case A" mass exchange
occurring during the core hydrogen burning phase of the current secondary. The
distance derived to the system, 43.2 +/- 1.8 kpc, implies a distance of ~44.3
kpc to the optical center of the LMC. This is several kpc closer than found in
our analyses of other systems and we suggest that HV5936 lies "above" the LMC
disk. This is supported by the very low interstellar H I column density and low
E(B-V) found for the system - both of which are consistent with expected Milky
Way foreground material - and may be associated with HV5936's location near the
LMC supergiant shell LMC4.