The Wisconsin H-Alpha Mapper (WHAM) is a new facility dedicated to the study
of faint optical emission lines from diffuse interstellar gas. During its first
18 months of operation, WHAM carried out a survey of the interstellar H-alpha
emission associated with the warm, ionized component of the interstellar
medium. The observations consisted of 37,000 spectra obtained with a one degree
diameter beam on a 0.98 X 0.85 degree grid (lxb), covering the sky above
declination -30 degrees. This survey provides for the first time a detailed
picture of the distribution and kinematics of the diffuse ionized hydrogen
through the H-alpha line comparable to surveys of the neutral hydrogen obtained
through the 21 cm line. Preliminary reduction of the data from selected
portions of the sky reveal that the interstellar H II has a complex
distribution, with long filaments and loop-like structures extending to high
Galactic latitudes and superposed on a more diffuse background. Apart from the
H-alpha sky survey, WHAM has also detected for the first time faint diagnostic
emission lines in selected directions, [O I] 6300, [O III] 5007, and He I 5876,
which provide information about the physical state of the gas and clues about
the source of the ionization. Maps of [S II] 6716 and [N II] 6584 over limited
regions of the sky are providing information about variations in the
temperature and ionization conditions within the Galactic disk, and the
detection of faint optical emission lines from high velocity clouds is probing
conditions in the halo.