In the multiple changepoint setting, various search methods have been
proposed which involve optimising either a constrained or penalised cost
function over possible numbers and locations of changepoints using dynamic
programming. Such methods are typically computationally intensive. Recent work
in the penalised optimisation setting has focussed on developing a
pruning-based approach which gives an improved computational cost that, under
certain conditions, is linear in the number of data points. Such an approach
naturally requires the specification of a penalty to avoid under/over-fitting.
Work has been undertaken to identify the appropriate penalty choice for data
generating processes with known distributional form, but in many applications
the model assumed for the data is not correct and these penalty choices are not
always appropriate. Consequently it is desirable to have an approach that
enables us to compare segmentations for different choices of penalty. To this
end we present a method to obtain optimal changepoint segmentations of data
sequences for all penalty values across a continuous range. This permits an
evaluation of the various segmentations to identify a suitably parsimonious
penalty choice. The computational complexity of this approach can be linear in
the number of data points and linear in the difference between the number of
changepoints in the optimal segmentations for the smallest and largest penalty
values. This can be orders of magnitude faster than alternative approaches that
find optimal segmentations for a range of the number of changepoints.