The complete scenario of high-Tc superconductivity based on experimental data
from electron-tunneling spectroscopy on underdoped, overdoped and Ni-doped
Bi2212 single crystals using a break-junction technique is presented. There are
two different types of superconductivity in cuprates: superconductivity due to
pairing of spinons on charged stripes and magnetic superconductivity mediated
by spin-waves. The coherent state of the spinon superconductivity is
established via the magnetic superconductivity. In NCCO, there is only the
spinon superconductivity and the coherent state is established due to the
Josephson coupling between charged stripes. Below Tc, we observe four different
gaps, namely, (i) a SDW gap due to antiferromagnetic correlations; (ii) a
superconducting gap due to spinon pairing; (iii) a d-wave magnetic
superconducting gap, and (iv) a small superconducting gap most likely having
g-wave symmetry. We show that the d-wave superconductivity is mediated by
spin-waves and the magnitude of the superconducting gap due to pairing of
spinons is larger than the magnitude of the d-wave gap, however, the d-wave gap
is more intense. The superconducting gap due to pairing of spinons most likely
has a s-wave symmetry. The maximum magnitudes of the SDW, the spinon and d-wave
gaps are located at (p/2, p/2), (p/2, p/2) and (p, 0) on the Fermi surface,
respectively. The d-g-wave superconductivity mediated by spin-waves can be
considered as a pairing of magnetic polarons. We formulate a theorem for
cuprates by analogy with the Anderson's theorem for classical superconductors.
The presented model of high-Tc superconductivity naturally explains other
experimental data.