We report a computer simulation study of a model gel-former obtained by
modifying the three-body interactions of the Stillinger-Weber potential for
silicon. This modification reduces the average coordination number and
consequently shifts the liquid-gas phase coexistence curve to low densities,
thus facilitating the formation of gels without phase separation. At low
temperatures and densities, the structure of the system is characterized by the
presence of long linear chains interconnected by a small number of three
coordinated junctions at random locations. At small wave-vectors the static
structure factor shows a non-monotonic dependence on temperature, a behavior
which is due to the competition between the percolation transition of the
particles and the stiffening of the formed chains. We compare in detail the
relaxation dynamics of the system as obtained from molecular dynamics with the
one obtained from Monte Carlo dynamics. We find that the bond correlation
function displays stretched exponential behavior at moderately low temperatures
and densities, but exponential relaxation at low temperatures. The bond
lifetime shows an Arrhenius behavior, independent of the microscopic dynamics.
For the molecular dynamics at low temperatures, the mean squared displacement
and the (coherent and incoherent) intermediate scattering function display at
intermediate times a dynamics with ballistic character and we show that this
leads to compressed exponential relaxation. For the Monte Carlo dynamics we
find always an exponential or stretched exponential relaxation. Thus we
conclude that the compressed exponential relaxation observed in experiments is
due to the out-of-equilibrium dynamics.