We propose a method to distinguish between cloudy, hazy and clearsky (free of
clouds and hazes) exoplanet atmospheres that could be applicable to upcoming
large aperture space and ground-based telescopes such as the James Webb Space
Telescope (JWST) and the European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT). These
facilities will be powerful tools for characterizing transiting exoplanets, but
only after a considerable amount of telescope time is devoted to a single
planet. A technique that could provide a relatively rapid means of identifying
haze-free targets (which may be more valuable targets for characterization)
could potentially increase the science return for these telescopes. Our
proposed method utilizes broadband observations of refracted light in the
out-of-transit spectrum. Light refracted through an exoplanet atmosphere can
lead to an increase of flux prior to ingress and subsequent to egress. Because
this light is transmitted at pressures greater than those for typical cloud and
haze layers, the detection of refracted light could indicate a cloud- or
haze-free atmosphere. A detection of refracted light could be accomplished in
<10 hours for Jovian exoplanets with JWST and <5 hours for
Super-Earths/Mini-Neptunes with E-ELT. We find that this technique is most
effective for planets with equilibrium temperatures between 200 and 500 K,
which may include potentially habitable planets. A detection of refracted light
for a potentially habitable planet would strongly suggest the planet was free
of a global cloud or haze layer, and therefore a promising candidate for
follow-up observations.