We report the detection of 21-cm and H2 absorption lines in the same DLA
system (log N(HI)=21.36+-0.10) at zabs=3.17447 towards SDSSJ133724+315254
(z=3.174). We estimate the spin temperature of the gas to be, Ts~600 K,
intermediate between the expected values for cold and warm neutral media. This
suggests that the HI absorption originates from a mixture of different phases.
The total molecular fraction is low, f=10^-7, and H2 rotational level
populations are not in equilibrium. The average abundance of the alpha-elements
is, [S/H]=-1.45. N and Fe are found underabundant with respect to
alpha-elements by ~1.0 dex and ~0.5 dex respectively. Using photoionization
models we conclude that the gas is located more than 270 kpc away from the QSO.
While the position of 21-cm absorption line coincides with the H2 velocity
profile, their centroid are shifted by 2.7+-1.0 km/s from each other. However,
the position of the strongest metal absorption component matches the position
of the 21-cm absorption line within 0.5 km/s. From this, we constrain the
variation of the combination of fundamental constants x=alpha^2 Gp/mu, Delta
x/x=-(1.7+-1.7)x10^-6. This system is unique as we can at the same time have an
independent constrain on mu using H2 lines. However only Werner band absorption
lines are seen and the range of sensitivity coefficients is too narrow to
provide a stringent constraint: Delta mu/mu <= 4.0x10^-4. The VLT/UVES spectrum
reveals another DLA at zabs=3.16768 with log N(HI)=20.41+-0.15 and low
metallicity, [Si/H]=-2.68+-0.11. We derive log N(DI)/N(HI)=-(4.93+-0.15) in
this system. This is a factor of two smaller than the value expected from the
best fitted value of Omega_b from the WMAP 5 yr data. This confirms the
presence of astration of deuterium even at very low metallicity. [abridged]