In a previous paper, we have presented a global view of the stability of
Neptune Trojan (NT hereafter) on inclined orbit. We discuss in this paper the
dependence of stability of NT orbits on the eccentricity. High-resolution
dynamical maps are constructed using the results of extensive numerical
integrations of orbits initialized on the fine grids of initial semimajor axis
(a0) versus eccentricity (e0). The extensions of regions of stable orbits on
the (a0, e0) plane at different inclinations are shown. The maximum
eccentricities of stable orbits in three most stable regions at low (0,
12deg.), medium (22,36deg.) and high (51, 59deg.) inclination, are found to be
0.10, 0.12 and 0.04, respectively. The fine structures in the dynamical maps
are described. Via the frequency analysis method, the mechanisms that portray
the dynamical maps are revealed. The secondary resonances, concerning the
frequency of the librating resonant angle and the frequency of the quasi 2:1
mean motion resonance between Neptune and Uranus, are found deeply involved in
the motion of NTs. Secular resonances are detected and they also contribute
significantly to the triggering of chaos in the motion. Particularly, the
effects of the secular resonance v8, v18 are clarified.
  We also investigate the orbital stabilities of six observed NTs by checking
the orbits of hundreds clones of them generated within the observing error
bars. We conclude that four of them, except 2001 QR322 and 2005 TO74, are
deeply inside the stable region. The 2001 QR322 is in the close vicinity of the
most significant secondary resonance. The 2005 TO74 locates close to the
boundary separating stable orbits from unstable ones, and it may be influenced
by a secular resonance.