Using a recently completed survey of faint (sub-mJy) radio sources, selected
at 1.4 GHz, a dust-free estimate of the local star formation rate (SFR) is
carried out. The sample is 50% complete to 0.2 mJy, with over 50% of the radio
sources having optical counterparts brighter than R = 21.5. Spectroscopic
observations of 249 optically identified radio sources have been made, using
the 2-degree Field (2dF) facility at the Anglo-Australian Telescope (AAT).
Redshifts and equivalent widths of several spectral features (e.g., H\alpha and
[OII]3727) sensitive to star formation have been measured and used to identify
the star-forming and absorption-line systems. The spectroscopic sample is
corrected for incompleteness and used to estimate the 1.4 GHz and H\alpha
luminosity functions (LFs) and luminosity density distributions. The 1.4 GHz LF
of the star-forming population has a much steeper faint-end slope (1.85) than
that for the ellipticals (1.35). This implies an increasing preponderance of
star-forming galaxies among the optically identified (i.e., z < 1) radio
sources at fainter flux densities. The H\alpha LF of the faint radio population
agrees with published H\alpha LFs derived from local samples selected by
H\alpha emission. This suggests that the star-forming faint radio population is
coincident with the H\alpha selected galaxies. The 1.4 GHz and H\alpha
luminosity densities have been used to estimate the SFRs. The two estimates
agree, both giving a SFR density of $0.032 M_\odot yr^{-1} Mpc^{-3}$ in the
range z < 1.