We present the results of a uniform and systematic search for blue-shifted Fe
K absorption lines in the X-ray spectra of five bright Broad-Line Radio
Galaxies (BLRGs) observed with Suzaku. We detect, for the first time at X-rays
in radio-loud AGN, several absorption lines at energies greater than 7 keV in
three out of five sources, namely 3C 111, 3C 120 and 3C 390.3. The lines are
detected with high significance according to both the F-test and extensive
Monte Carlo simulations. Their likely interpretation as blue-shifted Fe XXV and
Fe XXVI K-shell resonance lines implies an origin from highly ionized gas
outflowing with mildly relativistic velocities, in the range 0.04-0.15c. A fit
with specific photo-ionization models gives ionization parameters in the range
log_xi~4-5.6 and column densities of N_H~10^22-10^23 cm^-2. These
characteristics are very similar to those of the Ultra-Fast Outflows (UFOs)
previously observed in radio-quiet AGN. Their estimated location within
~0.01-0.3pc from the central super-massive black hole suggests a likely origin
related with accretion disk winds/outflows. Depending on the absorber covering
fraction, the mass outflow rate of these UFOs can be comparable to the
accretion rate and their kinetic power can correspond to a significant fraction
of the bolometric luminosity and is comparable to their typical jet power.
Therefore, these UFOs can play a significant role in the expected feedback from
the AGN on the surrounding environment and can give us further clues on the
relation between the accretion disk and the formation of winds/jets in both
radio-quiet and radio-loud AGN.