So far, multiple stellar systems harbor more than 130 extra solar planets.
Dynamical simulations show that the outcome of planetary formation process can
lead to various planetary architecture (i.e. location, size, mass and water
content) when the star system is single or double. In the late phase of
planetary formation, when embryo-sized objects dominate the inner region of the
system, asteroids are also present and can provide additional material for
objects inside the habitable zone (hereafter HZ). In this study, we make a
comparison of several binary star systems and their efficiency to move icy
asteroids from beyond the snow-line into orbits crossing the HZ. We modeled a
belt of 10000 asteroids (remnants from the late phase of planetary formation
process) beyond the snow-line. The planetesimals are placed randomly around the
primary star and move under the gravitational influence of the two stars and a
gas giant. As the planetesimals do not interact with each other, we divided the
belt into 100 subrings which were separately integrated. In this statistical
study, several double star configurations with a G-type star as primary are
investigated. Our results show that small bodies also participate in bearing a
non-negligible amount of water to the HZ. The proximity of a companion moving
on an eccentric orbit increases the flux of asteroids to the HZ, which could
result into a more efficient water transport on a short timescale, causing a
heavy bombardment. In contrast to asteroids moving under the gravitational
perturbations of one G-type star and a gas giant, we show that the presence of
a companion star can not only favor a faster depletion of our disk of
planetesimals but can also bring 4 -- 5 times more water into the whole HZ.