The microquasar Cygnus X-3 was detected at high energies by the gamma-ray
space telescopes AGILE and Fermi. The gamma-ray emission is transient,
modulated with the orbital period and seems related to major radio flares, i.e.
to the relativistic jet. The GeV gamma-ray flux can be substantially attenuated
by internal absorption with the ambient X-rays. In this study, we examine
quantitatively the effect of pair production in Cygnus X-3 and put constraints
on the location of the gamma-ray source. Cygnus X-3 exhibits complex temporal
and spectral patterns in X-rays. During gamma-ray flares, the X-ray emission
can be approximated by a bright disk black body component and a non-thermal
tail extending in hard X-rays, possibly related to a corona above the disk. We
calculate numerically the exact optical depth for gamma rays above a standard
accretion disk. Emission and absorption in the corona are also investigated.
GeV gamma rays are significantly absorbed by soft X-rays emitted from the inner
parts of the accretion disk. The absorption pattern is complex and anisotropic.
Isotropization of X-rays due to Thomson scattering in the companion star wind
tends to increase the gamma-ray opacity. Gamma rays from the corona suffer from
strong absorption by photons from the disk and cannot explain the observed
high-energy emission, unless the corona is unrealistically extended. The lack
of absorption feature in the GeV emission indicates that high-energy gamma rays
should be located at a minimum distance ~10^8-10^10 cm from the compact object.
The gamma-ray emission is unlikely to have a coronal origin.