We study the impactor flux and cratering on Pluto and Charon due to the
collisional evolution of Plutinos. Plutinos are those trans-Neptunian objects
located at 39.5 AU, in the 3:2 mean motion resonance with Neptune. To do this,
we develop a statistical code that includes catastrophic collisions and
cratering events, and takes into account the stability and instability zones of
the 3:2 mean motion resonance with Neptune. We proposes different initial
populations that account for the uncertainty in the size distribution of
Plutinos at small sizes. Depending on the initial population, our results
indicate the following. The number of D > 1 km Plutinos streaking Pluto over
3.5 Gyr is between 1271 and 5552. For Charon, the number of D > 1 km Plutino
impactors is between 354 and 1545. The number of D > 1 km craters on Pluto
produced by Plutinos during the last 3.5 Gyr is between 43076 and 113879. For
Charon, the number of D > 1 km craters is between 20351 and 50688.The largest
Plutino impactor onto Pluto has a diameter between 17 and 23 km, which produces
a craterwith a diameter of 31 - 39 km. The largest Plutino impactor onto Charon
has a diameter between 10 and 15 km, which produces a crater with a diameter of
24 - 33 km. We test if 2 Pluto-sized objects are assumed in the 3:2 Neptune
resonance, then the total number of Plutino impactors both onto Pluto as Charon
with diameters D > 1 km is a factor of 1.6 - 1.8 larger if considering 1
Pluto-sized object. Given the dynamical structure of the trans-Neptunian
region, it is necessary to study in detail the contribution of all the
potential sources of impactors on the Pluto-Charon system, to obtain the main
contributor and the whole production of craters. Then, we will be able to
contrast those studies with observations which will help us to understand the
geological processes and history of the surface of those worlds.