We report observations of three gravitationally lensed supernovae (SNe) in
the Cluster Lensing And Supernova survey with Hubble (CLASH) Multi-Cycle
Treasury program. These objects, SN CLO12Car (z = 1.28), SN CLN12Did (z =
0.85), and SN CLA11Tib (z = 1.14), are located behind three different clusters,
MACSJ1720.2+3536 (z = 0.391), RXJ1532.9+3021 (z = 0.345), and Abell 383 (z =
0.187), respectively. Each SN was detected in Hubble Space Telescope (HST)
optical and infrared images. Based on photometric classification, we find that
SNe CLO12Car and CLN12Did are likely to be Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia), while
the classification of SN CLA11Tib is inconclusive. Using multi-color
light-curve fits to determine a standardized SN Ia luminosity distance, we
infer that SN CLO12Car was approximately 1.0 +/- 0.2 mag brighter than field
SNe Ia at a similar redshift and ascribe this to gravitational lens
magnification. Similarly, SN CLN12Did is approximately 0.2 +/- 0.2 mag brighter
than field SNe Ia. We derive independent estimates of the predicted
magnification from CLASH strong+weak lensing maps of the clusters: 0.83 +/-
0.16 mag for SN CLO12Car, 0.28 +/- 0.08 mag for SN CLN12Did, and 0.43 +/- 0.11
mag for SN CLA11Tib. The two SNe Ia provide a new test of the cluster lens
model predictions: we find that the magnifications based on the SN Ia
brightness and those predicted by the lens maps are consistent. Our results
herald the promise of future observations of samples of cluster-lensed SNe Ia
(from the ground or space) to help illuminate the dark-matter distribution in
clusters of galaxies, through the direct determination of absolute
magnifications.