We have used the Hubble Space Telescope and Wide Field Planetary Camera 2 to
image the putative tidal dwarf galaxy located at the tip of the Southern tidal
tail of NGC 4038/9, the Antennae. We resolve individual stars, and identify two
stellar populations. Hundreds of massive stars are present, concentrated into
tight OB associations on scales of 200 pc, with ages ranging from 2-100 Myr. An
older stellar population is distributed roughly following the outer contours of
the neutral hydrogen in the tidal tail; we associate these stars with material
ejected from the outer disks of the two spirals. The older stellar population
has a red giant branch tip at I=26.5+/-0.2 from which we derive a distance
modulus (m-M)_0=30.7+/-0.25. The implied distance of 13.8+/-1.7 Mpc is
significantly smaller than commonly quoted distances for NGC 4038/9. In
contrast to the previously studied core of the merger, we find no super star
clusters. One might conclude that SSCs require the higher pressures found in
the central regions in order to form, while spontaneous star formation in the
tail produces the kind of O-B star associations seen in dwarf irregular
galaxies. The youngest population in the putative tidal dwarf has a total
stellar mass of ~2x10^5 Msun, while the old population has a stellar mass of
\~7x10^7 Msun. If our smaller distance modulus is correct, it has far-reaching
consequences for this proto-typical merger. Specifically, the luminous to
dynamical mass limits for the tidal dwarf candidates are significantly less
than 1, the central super star clusters have sizes typical of galactic globular
clusters rather than being 1.5 times as large, and the unusually luminous X-ray
population becomes both less luminous and less populous.