Multi-spacecraft observations are used to study the in-situ effects of a
large CME erupting from the farside of the Sun on 3 November 2011, with
particular emphasis on the associated solar energetic particle (SEP) event. At
that time both Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory (STEREO) spacecraft were
located more than 90 degrees from Earth and could observe the CME eruption
directly, with the CME visible on-disk from STEREO-B and off the limb from
STEREO-A. Signatures of pressure variations in the corona such as deflected
streamers were seen, indicating the presence of a coronal shock associated with
this CME eruption. The evolution of the CME and an associated EUV wave were
studied using EUV and coronagraph images. It was found that the lateral
expansion of the CME low in the corona closely tracked the propagation of the
EUV wave, with measured velocities of 240+/-19 km/s and 221+/-15 km/s for the
CME and wave respectively. Solar energetic particles were observed arriving
first at STEREO-A, followed by electrons at the Wind spacecraft at L1, then
STEREO-B, and finally protons arriving simultaneously at Wind and STEREO-B. By
carrying out velocity-dispersion analysis on the particles arriving at each
location, it was found that energetic particles arriving at STEREO-A were
released first and the release of particles arriving at STEREO-B was delayed by
around 50 minutes. Analysis of the expansion of the CME to a wider longitude
indicates that this delay is a result of the time taken for the edge of the CME
to reach the footpoints of the magnetic-field lines connected to STEREO-B. The
CME expansion is not seen to reach the magnetic footpoint of Wind at the time
of solar particle release for the particles detected here, suggesting that
these particles may not be associated with this CME.