We present the Chandra observation of the cluster of galaxies MS 1455.0+2232.
  From previous ASCA and ROSAT observations, this cluster was identified as a
``relaxed'' cluster that hosts one of the most massive cooling flows detected.
With higher angular resolution, the Chandra X-ray image shows the presence of
two surface brightness edges on opposite sides of the X-ray peak: the first at
190 kpc to the north and the second at 450 kpc to the south. Even though the
low exposure of this observation limits our ability to constrain the
temperature jump across both edges, we show that the northern edge is likely to
be a ``cold front'' similar to others observed recently by Chandra in the
clusters A2142, A3667, RX J1720.1+2638, and A2256. The observed cold front is
most likely produced by the motion, from south to north, of a group-size dark
matter halo. The most natural explanation for the presence of this observed
moving subclump is that MS 1455.0+2232 is a merger cluster in the very last
stage before it becomes fully relaxed. This scenario, however, appears to be
unlikely as the cluster shows no further sign of ongoing merger. Moreover, it
is not clear if a massive cooling flow could have survived this kind of merger.
We propose an alternative scenario in which, as for RX J1720.1+2638, MS
1455.0+2232 is the result of the hierarchical collapse of two co-located
density perturbations, the first a group-scale perturbation collapse followed
by a second cluster-scale perturbation collapse that surrounded, but did not
destroy, the first. We suggest that a cooling flow may have begun inside the
already collapsed group-scale perturbation and may have been later amplified by
the gas compression induced by the infall of the overlying main cluster mass.