We analyse the main physical parameters and the circumstellar environment of
the young Herbig Be star HD 98922. We present AMBER/VLTI high spectral
resolution (R =12000) interferometric observations across the Br$\gamma$ line,
accompanied by UVES high-resolution spectroscopy and SINFONI-AO assisted
near-infrared integral field spectroscopic data. To interpret our observations,
we develop a magneto-centrifugally driven disc-wind model. Our analysis of the
UVES spectrum shows that HD 98922 is a young (~5x10^5 yr) Herbig Be star
(SpT=B9V), located at a distance of 440(+60-50) pc, with a mass accretion rate
of ~9+/-3x10^(-7) M_sun yr^(-1). SINFONI K-band AO-assisted imaging shows a
spatially resolved circumstellar disc-like region (~140 AU in diameter) with
asymmetric brightness distribution. Our AMBER/VLTI UT observations indicate
that the Br$\gamma$ emitting region (radius ~0.31+/-0.04 AU) is smaller than
the continuum emitting region (inner dust radius ~0.7+/-0.2 AU), showing
significant non-zero V-shaped differential phases (i.e. non S-shaped, as
expected for a rotating disc). The value of the continuum-corrected pure
Br$\gamma$ line visibility at the longest baseline (89 m) is ~0.8+/-0.1, i.e.
the Br$\gamma$ emitting region is partially resolved. Our modelling suggests
that the observed Br$\gamma$ line-emitting region mainly originates from a disc
wind with a half opening angle of 30deg, and with a mass-loss rate of ~2x10(-7)
M_sun yr^(-1). The observed V-shaped differential phases are reliably
reproduced by combining a simple asymmetric continuum disc model with our
Br$\gamma$ disc-wind model. The Br$\gamma$ emission of HD 98922 can be modelled
with a disc wind that is able to approximately reproduce all interferometric
observations if we assume that the intensity distribution of the dust continuum
disc is asymmetric.