We have searched for optical identifications for 79 Chandra X-ray sources
that lie within the half-mass radius of the nearby, core-collapsed globular
cluster NGC 6397, using deep Hubble Space Telescope Advanced Camera for Surveys
Wide Field Channel imaging in H-alpha, R, and B. Photometry of these images
allows us to classify candidate counterparts based on color-magnitude diagram
location. In addition to recovering nine previously detected cataclysmic
variables (CVs), we have identified six additional faint CV candidates, a total
of 42 active binaries (ABs), two millisecond pulsars (MSPs), one candidate
active galactic nucleus, and one candidate interacting galaxy pair. Of the 79
sources, 69 have a plausible optical counterpart. The 15 likely and possible
CVs in NGC 6397 mostly fall into two groups: a brighter group of six for which
the optical emission is dominated by contributions from the secondary and
accretion disk, and a fainter group of seven for which the white dwarf
dominates the optical emission. There are two possible transitional objects
that lie between these groups. The faintest CVs likely lie near the minimum of
the CV period distribution, where an accumulation is expected. The spatial
distribution of the brighter CVs is much more centrally concentrated than those
of the fainter CVs and the active binaries. This may represent the result of an
evolutionary process in which CVs are produced by dynamical interactions, such
as exchange reactions, near the cluster center and are scattered to larger
orbital radii, over their lifetimes, as they age and become fainter.