Potential energy surfaces (PES's) of actinide nuclei are characterized by a
two-humped barrier structure. At large deformations beyond the second barrier
the occurrence of a third one was predicted by Mic-Mac model calculations in
the 1970s, but contradictory results were later reported. In this paper,
triple-humped barriers in actinide nuclei are investigated with covariant
density functional theory (CDFT). Calculations are performed using the
multidimensionally-constrained relativistic mean field (MDC-RMF) model, with
functionals PC-PK1 and DD-ME2. Pairing correlations are treated in the BCS
approximation with a separable pairing force of finite range. Two-dimensional
PES's of $^{226,228,230,232}$Th and $^{232,234,236,238}$U are mapped and the
third minima on these surfaces are located. Then one-dimensional potential
energy curves along the fission path are analyzed in detail and the energies of
the second barrier, the third minimum, and the third barrier are determined.
DD-ME2 predicts the occurrence of a third barrier in all Th nuclei and
$^{238}$U. The third minima in $^{230,232}$Th are very shallow, whereas those
in $^{226,228}$Th and $^{238}$U are quite prominent. With PC-PK1 a third
barrier is found only in $^{226,228,230}$Th. Single-nucleon levels around the
Fermi surface are analyzed in $^{226}$Th, and it is found that the formation of
the third minimum is mainly due to the $Z=90$ proton energy gap at $\beta_{20}
\approx 1.5$ and $\beta_{30} \approx 0.7$. The possible occurrence of a third
barrier in actinide nuclei depends on the effective interaction used in
multidimensional CDFT calculations. More pronounced minima are predicted by the
DD-ME2 functional, as compared to the functional PC-PK1. The depth of the third
well in Th isotopes decreases with increasing neutron number. The origin of the
third minimum is due to the proton $Z=90$ shell gap at relevant deformations.