We present results from a large spectroscopic survey of M31 red giants using
the Keck telescope/DEIMOS. Photometric pre-screening, based on the 100A-wide
DDO51 band centered on the Mgb/MgH feature, was used to select spectroscopic
targets. Red giant candidates were targeted in a small field on M31's giant
southern tidal stream at a projected distance of 31kpc from the galaxy center.
We isolate a clean sample of 68 giants by removing contaminants (foreground
Galactic dwarfs and background galaxies) using spectroscopic, imaging, and
photometric methods. About 65% of the M31 stars are found to be members of the
stream, while the rest appear to be members of the general halo population. The
mean (heliocentric) radial velocity of the stream in our field is -458 km/s, or
-158 km/s relative to M31's systemic velocity, in good agreement with recent
measurements at other stream locations. The intrinsic velocity dispersion of
the stream is constrained to be 15_{-15}^{+8} km/s (90% confidence limits). The
companion paper by Font et al. (2004, astro-ph/0406146) discusses possible
orbits, implications of the coldness of the stream, and progenitor satellite
properties. The kinematics (and perhaps [Fe/H] distribution) of our halo sample
indicate that it is different from other M31 halo samples; this may be an
indication of substructure in the halo. The stream seems to have a higher mean
[Fe/H] than the halo, -0.51 vs -0.74 dex, and a smaller [Fe/H] spread. The
stream's high metallicity implies that its progenitor must have been a luminous
dwarf galaxy. The CaII triplet strengths of the M31 giants are generally
consistent with photometric estimates of their metallicity (derived by fitting
RGB fiducials in the color-magnitude diagram). There is indirect evidence of
intermediate-age stars in the stream.