The analysis of seismic site effects generally disregards the influence of
surface structures on the free field motion in densely urbanized areas. This
paper aims at investigating this particular problem called site-city
interaction especially by comparison to the "free-field" amplification process.
Several evidences (experimental, analytical, numerical) of the site-city
interaction phenomenon have been given in previous work (Gu\'eguen, Bard,
Semblat 2000). The influence of site city-interaction could be large for
structures having eigenfrequencies close to that of the surface soil layers.
Furthermore, the density of structures is also an important governing parameter
of the problem. Considering a specific site (Nice, France) where site-city
interaction is supposed to be significant, we start from detailed experimental
and numerical studies of seismic site effects giving both amplification levels
and occuring frequencies, as well as the location of the maximum amplification
areas. The influence of site-city interaction is then investigated through
various numerical models considering the boundary element method. The effect of
surface structures with variable urban densities is analysed to estimate the
contribution of overall site-city interaction on surface motion distribution.
The main goal of the paper is to estimate the influence of site-city
interaction not only on amplification levels (the influence can be small), but
also on the modification of both main amplification frequencies and location of
the maximum amplification areas. The main conclusion of this work is to show
the modifications of the free-field amplification due to site-city interaction
and leading to a specific urban field amplification.