We argue that the Square Kilometre Array has the potential to make both
redshift (HI) surveys and radio continuum surveys that will revolutionize
cosmological studies, provided that it has sufficient instantaneous
field-of-view that these surveys can cover a hemisphere in a timescale ~1 yr.
Adopting this assumption, we focus on two key experiments which will yield
fundamental new measurements in cosmology, characterizing the properties of the
mysterious dark energy which dominates the dynamics of today's Universe.
Experiment I will map out ~10^9 HI galaxies to redshift z~1.5, providing the
premier measurement of the clustering power spectrum of galaxies: accurately
delineating the acoustic oscillations and the `turnover'. Experiment II will
quantify the cosmic shear distortion of ~10^10 radio continuum sources,
determining a precise power spectrum of the dark matter, and its growth as a
function of cosmic epoch. We contrast the performance of the SKA in precision
cosmology with that of other facilities which will, probably or possibly, be
available on a similar timescale. We conclude that data from the SKA will yield
transformational science as the direct result of four key features: (i) the
immense cosmic volumes probed, exceeding future optical redshift surveys by
more than an order of magnitude; (ii) well-controlled systematic effects such
as the narrow `k-space window function' for Experiment I and the
accurately-known `point-spread function' for Experiment II; (iii) the ability
to measure with high precision large-scale modes in the clustering power
spectra, for which nuisance effects such as non-linear structure growth,
peculiar velocities and `galaxy bias' are minimised; and (iv) different
degeneracies between key parameters to those which are inherent in the CMB.