Potentially precancerous polyps detected with CT colonography (CTC) need to
be removed subsequently, using an optical colonoscope (OC). Due to large
colonic deformations induced by the colonoscope, even very experienced
colonoscopists find it difficult to pinpoint the exact location of the
colonoscope tip in relation to polyps reported on CTC. This can cause unduly
prolonged OC examinations that are stressful for the patient, colonoscopist and
supporting staff.
  We developed a method, based on monocular 3D reconstruction from OC images,
that automatically matches polyps observed in OC with polyps reported on prior
CTC. A matching cost is computed, using rigid point-based registration between
surface point clouds extracted from both modalities. A 3D printed and painted
phantom of a 25 cm long transverse colon segment was used to validate the
method on two medium sized polyps. Results indicate that the matching cost is
smaller at the correct corresponding polyp between OC and CTC: the value is 3.9
times higher at the incorrect polyp, comparing the correct match between polyps
to the incorrect match. Furthermore, we evaluate the matching of the
reconstructed polyp from OC with other colonic endoluminal surface structures
such as haustral folds and show that there is a minimum at the correct polyp
from CTC.
  Automated matching between polyps observed at OC and prior CTC would
facilitate the biopsy or removal of true-positive pathology or exclusion of
false-positive CTC findings, and would reduce colonoscopy false-negative
(missed) polyps. Ultimately, such a method might reduce healthcare costs,
patient inconvenience and discomfort.