The unceasing demand for continuous situational awareness calls for
innovative and large-scale signal processing algorithms, complemented by
collaborative and adaptive sensing platforms to accomplish the objectives of
layered sensing and control. Towards this goal, the present paper develops a
spline-based approach to field estimation, which relies on a basis expansion
model of the field of interest. The model entails known bases, weighted by
generic functions estimated from the field's noisy samples. A novel field
estimator is developed based on a regularized variational least-squares (LS)
criterion that yields finitely-parameterized (function) estimates spanned by
thin-plate splines. Robustness considerations motivate well the adoption of an
overcomplete set of (possibly overlapping) basis functions, while a sparsifying
regularizer augmenting the LS cost endows the estimator with the ability to
select a few of these bases that ``better'' explain the data. This parsimonious
field representation becomes possible, because the sparsity-aware spline-based
method of this paper induces a group-Lasso estimator for the coefficients of
the thin-plate spline expansions per basis. A distributed algorithm is also
developed to obtain the group-Lasso estimator using a network of wireless
sensors, or, using multiple processors to balance the load of a single
computational unit. The novel spline-based approach is motivated by a spectrum
cartography application, in which a set of sensing cognitive radios collaborate
to estimate the distribution of RF power in space and frequency. Simulated
tests corroborate that the estimated power spectrum density atlas yields the
desired RF state awareness, since the maps reveal spatial locations where idle
frequency bands can be reused for transmission, even when fading and shadowing
effects are pronounced.