Sampling theories lie at the heart of signal processing devices and
communication systems. To accommodate high operating rates while retaining low
computational cost, efficient analog-to digital (ADC) converters must be
developed. Many of limitations encountered in current converters are due to a
traditional assumption that the sampling state needs to acquire the data at the
Nyquist rate, corresponding to twice the signal bandwidth. In this thesis a
method of sampling far below the Nyquist rate for sparse spectrum multiband
signals is investigated. The method is called periodic non-uniform sampling,
and it is useful in a variety of applications such as data converters, sensor
array imaging and image compression. Firstly, a model for the sampling system
in the frequency domain is prepared. It relates the Fourier transform of
observed compressed samples with the unknown spectrum of the signal. Next, the
reconstruction process based on the topic of compressed sensing is provided. We
show that the sampling parameters play an important role on the average sample
ratio and the quality of the reconstructed signal. The concept of condition
number and its effect on the reconstructed signal in the presence of noise is
introduced, and a feasible approach for choosing a sample pattern with a low
condition number is given. We distinguish between the cases of known spectrum
and unknown spectrum signals respectively. One of the model parameters is
determined by the signal band locations that in case of unknown spectrum
signals should be estimated from sampled data. Therefore, we applied both
subspace methods and non-linear least square methods for estimation of this
parameter. We also used the information theoretic criteria (Akaike and MDL) and
the exponential fitting test techniques for model order selection in this case.