We present a Differential Emission Measure (DEM) analysis of the quiet solar
corona on disk using data obtained by the Extreme-ultraviolet Imaging
Spectrometer (EIS) on {\it Hinode}. We show that the expected quiet Sun DEM
distribution can be recovered from judiciously selected lines, and that their
average intensities can be reproduced to within 30%. We present a subset of
these selected lines spanning the temperature range $\log$ T = 5.6 to 6.4 K
that can be used to derive the DEM distribution reliably. The subset can be
used without the need for extensive measurements and the observed intensities
can be reproduced to within the estimated uncertainty in the pre-launch
calibration of EIS. Furthermore, using this subset, we also demonstrate that
the quiet coronal DEM distribution can be recovered on size scales down to the
spatial resolution of the instrument (1$"$ pixels). The subset will therefore
be useful for studies of small-scale spatial inhomogeneities in the coronal
temperature structure, for example, in addition to studies requiring multiple
DEM derivations in space or time. We apply the subset to 45 quiet Sun datasets
taken in the period 2007 January to April, and show that although the absolute
magnitude of the coronal DEM may scale with the amount of released energy, the
shape of the distribution is very similar up to at least $\log$ T $\sim$ 6.2 K
in all cases. This result is consistent with the view that the {\it shape} of
the quiet Sun DEM is mainly a function of the radiating and conducting
properties of the plasma and is fairly insensitive to the location and rate of
energy deposition. This {\it universal} DEM may be sensitive to other factors
such as loop geometry, flows, and the heating mechanism, but if so they cannot
vary significantly from quiet Sun region to region.