We investigate impact of $\pi^0$-production data at Relativistic Heavy Ion
Collider (RHIC) and future E07-011 experiment for the structure function $g_1$
of the deuteron at the Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility (JLab) on
studies of nucleonic spin structure, especially on the polarized gluon
distribution function. By global analyses of polarized lepton-nucleon
scattering and the $\pi^0$-production data, polarized parton distribution
functions are determined and their uncertainties are estimated by the Hessian
method. Two types of the gluon distribution function are investigated. One is a
positive distribution and the other is a node-type distribution which changes
sign at $x \sim 0.1$. Although the RHIC $\pi^0$ data seem to favor the node
type for $\Delta g(x)$, it is difficult to determine a precise functional form
from the current data. However, it is interesting to find that the gluon
distribution $\Delta g(x)$ is positive at large $x$ ($>0.2$) due to constraints
from the scaling violation in $g_1$ and RHIC $\pi^0$ data. The JLab-E07-011
measurements for $g_1^d$ should be also able to reduce the gluon uncertainty,
and the reduction is comparable to the one by RUN-5 $\pi^0$-production data at
RHIC. The reduction is caused by the error correlation between polarized
antiquark and gluon distributions and by a next-to-leading-order (NLO) gluonic
effect in the structure function $g_1^d$. We find that the JLab-E07-011 data
are accurate enough to probe the NLO gluonic term in $g_1$. Both RHIC and JLab
data contribute to better determination of the polarized gluon distribution in
addition to improvement on polarized quark and antiquark distributions.