According to the no-hair theorem, astrophysical black holes are uniquely
described by the Kerr metric. In order to test this theorem with observations
in either the electromagnetic or gravitational-wave spectra, several Kerr-like
spacetimes have been constructed which describe potential deviations from the
Kerr spacetime in parametric form. For electromagnetic tests of the no-hair
theorem, such metrics allow for the proper modeling of the accretion flows
around candidate black holes and the radiation emitted from them. In many of
these models, the location of the inner edge of the accretion disk is of
special importance. This inner edge is often taken to coincide with the
innermost stable circular orbit, which can serve as a direct probe of the spin
and the deviation from the Kerr metric. In certain cases, however, an innermost
stable circular orbit does not exist, and the inner edge of an accretion disk
is instead determined by an instability against small perturbations in the
direction vertical to the disk. In this paper, I analyze the properties of
accretion disks in the Kerr-like metric proposed by Johannsen and Psaltis
[Phys. Rev. D 83, 124015 (2011)], whose inner edges are located at the radii
where this vertical instability occurs. I derive expressions of the energy and
axial angular momentum of disk particles that move on circular equatorial
orbits and calculate the locations of the inner disk edges. As a possible
observable of such accretion disks, I simulate profiles of relativistically
broadened iron lines and show that they depend significantly on the values of
the spin and the deviation parameter.