Spectra for stars located redward of the fiducial red giant branches of the
Ursa Minor and Draco dwarf spheroidal galaxies have been obtained with the
Hobby-Eberly telescope and the Marcario Low Resolution Spectrometer. From a
comparison of our radial velocities with those reported in previous
medium-resolution studies, we find an average difference of 10 km/s with a
standard deviation of 11 km/s. On the basis of these radial velocities, we
confirm the membership of five stars in Ursa Minor, and find two others to be
nonmembers. One of the confirmed members is a known carbon star which lies
redward of RGB; three others are previously unidentified carbon stars. The
fifth star is a red giant which was found previously by Shetrone et al. (2001)
to have [Fe/H] =-1.68+/-0.11 dex. In Draco, we find eight nonmembers, confirm
the membership of one known carbon star, and find two new members. One of these
stars is a carbon star, while the other shows no evidence for C2 bands or
strong atomic bands, although the signal-to-noise ratio of the spectrum is low.
Thus, we find no evidence for a population of stars more metal-rich than [Fe/H]
\~ -1.45 dex in either of these galaxies. Indeed, our spectroscopic survey
suggests that every candidate suspected of having a metallicity in excess of
this value based on its position in the color-magnitude diagram is, in
actuality, a carbon star. Based on the census of 13 known carbon stars in these
two galaxies, we estimate of the carbon star specific frequency to be e(dSph) ~
2.4E-5/Lsolarv, 25-100 times higher than that of Galactic globular clusters.