We aim to give a full description of the distribution and location of dense
molecular clouds in the giant molecular cloud complex W43. It has previously
been identified as one of the most massive star-forming regions in our Galaxy.
To trace the moderately dense molecular clouds in the W43 region, we initiated
an IRAM 30m large program, named W43-HERO, covering a large dynamic range of
scales (from 0.3 to 140 pc). We obtained on-the-fly-maps in 13CO (2-1) and C18O
(2-1) with a high spectral resolution of 0.1 km/s and a spatial resolution of
12". These maps cover an area of ~1.5 square degrees and include the two main
clouds of W43, as well as the lower density gas surrounding them. A comparison
with Galactic models and previous distance calculations confirms the location
of W43 near the tangential point of the Scutum arm at a distance from the Sun
of approximately 6 kpc. The resulting intensity cubes of the observed region
are separated into sub-cubes, centered on single clouds which are then analyzed
in detail. The optical depth, excitation temperature, and H2 column density
maps are derived out of the 13CO and C18O data. These results are then compared
with those derived from Herschel dust maps. The mass of a typical cloud is
several 10^4 solar masses while the total mass in the dense molecular gas (>100
cm^-3) in W43 is found to be about 1.9e6 solar masses. Probability distribution
functions obtained from column density maps derived from molecular line data
and Herschel imaging show a log-normal distribution for low column densities
and a power-law tail for high densities. A flatter slope for the molecular line
data PDF may imply that those selectively show the gravitationally collapsing
gas.