The thesis deals with the first stage of planet formation, namely dust
coagulation from micron to millimeter sizes in circumstellar disks. For the
first time, we collect and compile the recent laboratory experiments on dust
aggregates into a collision model that can be implemented into dust coagulation
models. We put this model into a Monte Carlo code that uses representative
particles to simulate dust evolution. Simulations are performed using three
different disk models in a local box (0D) located at 1 AU distance from the
central star. We find that the dust evolution does not follow the previously
assumed growth-fragmentation cycle, but growth is halted by bouncing before the
fragmentation regime is reached. We call this the bouncing barrier which is an
additional obstacle during the already complex formation process of
planetesimals. The absence of the growth-fragmentation cycle and the halted
growth has two important consequences for planet formation. 1) It is observed
that disk atmospheres are dusty throughout their lifetime. Previous models
concluded that the small, continuously produced fragments can keep the disk
atmospheres dusty. We however show that small fragments are not produced
because bouncing prevents fragmentation. 2) As particles do not reach the
fragmentation barrier, their sizes are smaller compared to the sizes reached in
previous dust models. We decided to investigate point 1) in more detail. A
vertical column of a disk (1D) is modeled including the sedimentation of the
particles. We find that already intermediate levels of turbulence can prevent
particles settling to the midplane.