We have developed a robust, automated method, hereafter designated HIIphot,
which enables accurate photometric characterization of HII regions while
permitting genuine adaptivity to irregular source morphology. HIIphot utilizes
object-recognition techniques to make a first guess at the shapes of all
sources then allows for departure from such idealized ``seeds'' through an
iterative growing procedure. Photometric corrections for spatially coincident
diffuse emission are derived from a low-order surface fit to the background
after exclusion of all detected sources. We present results for the
well-studied, nearby spiral M51 in which 1229 HII regions are detected above
the 5-sigma level. A simple, weighted power-law fit to the measured H-alpha
luminosity function (HII LF) above log L_H-alpha = 37.6 gives alpha =
-1.75+/-0.06, despite a conspicuous break in the HII LF observed near L_H-alpha
= 10^38.9. Our best- fit slope is marginally steeper than measured by Rand
(1992), perhaps reflecting our increased sensitivity at low luminosities and to
notably diffuse objects. HII regions located in interarm gaps are
preferentially less luminous than counterparts which constitute M51's
grand-design spiral arms and are best fit with a power-law slope of alpha =
-1.96+/-0.15. We assign arm/interarm status for HII regions based upon the
varying surface brightness of diffuse emission as a function of position
throughout the image. Using our measurement of the integrated flux contributed
by resolved HII regions in M51, we estimate the diffuse fraction to be
approximately 0.45 -- in agreement with the determination of Greenawalt et al.
(1998). Automated processing of degraded datasets is undertaken to gauge
systematic effects associated with limiting spatial resolution and sensitivity.