We develop and discuss global accretion solutions for viscous ADAF disks
containing centrifugally supported isothermal shock waves. The fact that such
shocks can exist at all in ADAF disks is a new result. Interestingly, we find
that isothermal shocks can form even when the level of viscous dissipation is
relatively high. In order to better understand this phenomenon, we explore all
possible combinations of the fundamental flow parameters, such as specific
energy, specific angular momentum, and viscosity, to obtain the complete family
of global solutions. This procedure allows us to identify the region of the
parameter space where isothermal shocks can exist in viscous ADAF disks. The
allowed region is maximized in the inviscid case, and it shrinks as the level
of viscous dissipation increases. Adopting the canonical value gamma=1.5 for
the ratio of specific heats, we find that the shock region disappears
completely when the Shakura-Sunyaev viscosity parameter alpha exceeds the
critical value ~0.27. This establishes for the first time that steady ADAF
disks containing shocks can exist even for relatively high levels of viscous
dissipation. If an isothermal shock is present in the disk, it would have
important implications for the acceleration of energetic particles that can
escape to power the relativistic jets commonly observed around underfed,
radio-loud black holes. In two specific applications, we confirm that the
kinetic luminosity lost from the disk at the isothermal shock location is
sufficient to power the observed relativistic outflows in M87 and Sgr A*.