Observations made using COBE, SCUBA, ISO and MAMBO have provided a reasonable
working knowledge of both the intensity of the submm and far-infrared
background radiation and the source counts of luminous high-redshift dusty
galaxies. However, because there are uncertainties in the background intensity
determinations, the samples of detected galaxies are small, and most
importantly, their redshift distributions are very incomplete, details of the
evolution of dusty galaxies remain unresolved. The next steps forward in the
field will be the launches of SIRTF and ASTRO-F, the commissioning of SOFIA and
new, more capable ground-based mm/submm-wave cameras - BOLOCAM, SHARC-II and
SCUBA-II - the use of ultra-long duration balloon experiments, such as BLAST,
the construction of ALMA and the arrival of FIRST, and ultimately the advent of
space-borne far-infrared interferometers, such as SPECS. There are also
exciting prospects for direct mm/submm-wave CO-line redshift surveys using
wide-band spectrographs. Using these new facilities, the number of
high-redshift dusty galaxies known will be increased dramatically. Spectroscopy
using SIRTF, SOFIA and FIRST will probe the astrophysical processes within
these sources in detail, hopefully addressing the open question of the fraction
of the counts and background radiation that is generated by the formation of
high-mass stars and by active galactic nuclei (AGNs). The spatial and spectral
structure of distant dusty galaxies will finally be resolved in detail using
ALMA and SPECS.