(Abridged) Compact groups, with their high number densities, small velocity
dispersions, and an interstellar medium that has not been fully processed,
provide a local analog to conditions of galaxy interactions in the earlier
universe. The frequent and prolonged gravitational encounters that occur in
compact groups affect the evolution of the constituent galaxies in a myriad of
ways, for example gas processing and star formation. Recently, a statistically
significant "gap" has been discovered mid-infrared IRAC colorspace of compact
group galaxies. This gap is not seen in field samples and is a new example of
how the compact group environment may affect the evolution of member galaxies.
In order to investigate the origin and nature of this gap, we have compiled a
sample of 49 compact groups. We find that a statistically significant deficit
of galaxies in this gap region of IRAC colorspace is persistant in this sample,
lending support to the hypothesis that the compact group environment inhibits
moderate SSFRs. We note a curvature in the colorspace distribution, which is
fully consistent with increasing dust temperature as the activity in a galaxy
increases. This full sample of 49 compact groups allows us to subdivide the
data according to physical properties of the groups. An analysis of these
subsamples indicates that neither projected physical diameter nor density show
a trend in colorspace within the values represented by this sample. We
hypothesize that the apparent lack of a trend is due to the relatively small
range of properties in this sample. Thus, the relative influence of stochastic
effects becomes dominant. We analyze spectral energy distributions of member
galaxies as a function of their location in colorspace and find that galaxies
in different regions of MIR colorspace contain dust with varying temperatures
and/or PAH emission.