The detection, in 1998, of the first Accreting Millisecond Pulsar, started an
exciting season of continuing discoveries in the fashinating field of compact
binary systems harbouring a neutron star. Indeed, in these last three lustres,
thanks to the extraordinary performances of astronomical detectors, on ground
as well as on board of satellites, mainly in the Radio, Optical, X-ray, and
Gamma-ray bands, astrophysicists had the opportunity to thoroughly investigate
the so-called Recycling Scenario: the evolutionary path leading to the
formation of a Millisecond Radio Pulsar. The most intriguing phase is certainly
the spin-up stage during which, because of the accretion of matter and angular
momentum, the neutron star accumulates an extraordinary amount of mechanical
rotational energy, up to one percent of its whole rest-mass energy. These
millisecond spinning neutron stars are truly extreme physical objects: General
and Special Relativity are fully in action, since their surfaces, attaining
speeds close to one fifth of the speed of light, are located just beyond their
Schwartzscild Radius, and electrodynamical forces, caused by the presence of
huge surface magnetic fields of several hundred million Gauss, display their
spectacular properties accelerating electrons up to such energies to promote
pair creation in a cascade process responsible for the emission in Radio and
Gamma-ray. The rotational energy is swiftly converted and released into
electromagnetic power which, in some cases, causes the neutron star to outshine
with a luminosity of one hundred Suns. In this paper I will review some of the
most recent discoveries on (accreting) millisecond pulsars.