Deep HST broad-band images taken with ACS and WFPC2 of the giant ($\sim 1000$
AU diameter) dark silhouette proplyd 114-426 in the Orion Nebula show that this
system is tilted, asymmetric, warped and photoevaporated. The exquisite angular
resolution of ACS allows us to map the distribution of dust grains at the
northern translucent edge of the disk, dominated by the photoevaporative flow.
Using the Mie theory for standard circumstellar disk grains, we find evidence
for a spatial gradient in grain size. The typical dust radius, $\simeq 0.2-0.7
\mu$m (less than what reported by previous studies) becomes smaller as the
distance from the disk center increases, consistent with the expectations for
the dynamic of dust entrained in a gaseous photoevaporative wind. Our analysis
of the disk morphology and location within the nebula indicates that this
system is photoevaporated by the diffuse radiation field of the Orion Nebula,
while being shielded from the radiation coming directly from the central
Trapezium stars. We estimate the mass-loss rate from the disk surface and the
time-scale for total disk dissipation, which turns out to be of the order of
$10^4$yr. Such a short time, of the order of 1/100 of the cluster age,
indicates that this system is seen on the verge of destruction. This is
compatible with the exceptional nature of the disk, namely its combination of
huge size and low mass. Finally, we briefly discuss the viability of possible
mechanisms that may lead to the peculiar morphology of this system: external UV
flux, binary star and past close encounter.