With the aim to corroborate the result of a search for chemically peculiar
stars in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) we present measurements obtained from
CCD-imaging of two fields, one containing a young open cluster (NGC 1711).
While for the latter field, including its surrounding we obtain a contribution
of three percent of chemically peculiar stars detectable by Delta a photometry
(i.e. the magnetic objects of this group), the second field yields about half
of this value in good accordance with the finding for NGC 1866 (Maitzen et al.,
2001, A&A, 371, L5) the surrounding field of which has been found to exhibit a
very low value of such stars - 0.3%. Thus we are faced with the fact, that our
incipient impression about a substantially lower appearance of magnetic
chemically peculiar stars in the LMC as compared to the Galaxy continues to be
valid. Most of the photometrically identified peculiar stars (from their
historical origin denominated Ap-stars) are located in the domain of the B-type
stars. But this is a selection effect due to the limiting magnitude of our
observing conditions impeding the observation of fainter main sequence stars.
In addition to objects showing up as positive deviators in Delta a photometry
we also discuss nine stars which appear opposite the main line of normal stars,
hence are negative deviators. For most of them the interpretation as emission
stars of B-type seems to be appropriate. The statistically relevant number of
observations obtained so far in the LMC supports the view that the formation of
magnetic peculiar stars has occurred there at a significantly lower rate.