With their excellent photometric precision and dramatic increase in
monitoring frequency, future microlensing survey experiments are expected to be
sensitive to very short time-scale, isolated events caused by free-floating and
wide-separation planets with mass as low as a few lunar masses. We estimate the
probability of measuring the Einstein radius \theta_E for bound and
free-floating planets. We carry out detailed simulations of the planetary
events expected in next-generation surveys and estimate the resulting
uncertainty in \theta_E for these events. We show that, for main-sequence
sources and Jupiter-mass planets, the caustic structure of wide-separation
planets with projected separations of < 20 AU substantially increases the
probability of measuring the dimensionless source size and thus determining
\theta_E compared to the case of unbound planets. In this limit where the
source is much smaller than the caustic, the effective cross-section to measure
\theta_E to 10% is ~25% larger than the full width of the caustic. Measurement
of the lens parallax is possible for low-mass planetary events by combined
observations from the ground and a satellite located in an L2 orbit; this would
complete the mass measurements for such wide-separation planets. Finally,
short-duration events caused by bound planets can be routinely distinguished
from those caused by free-floating planets for planet-star separations < 20 AU
from either the deviations due to the planetary caustic or (more often) the
low-amplitude bump from the magnification due to the parent star.