Introduction: The United States Federal Government operates one of the worlds
largest medical insurance programs, Medicare, to ensure payment for clinical
services for the elderly, illegal aliens and those without the ability to pay
for their care directly. This paper evaluates the Medicare 2011 Transaction
Data Set which details the transfer of funds from Medicare to private and
public clinical care facilities for specific clinical services for the
operational year 2011. Methods: Data mining was conducted to establish the
relationships between reported and computed transaction values in the data set
to better understand the drivers of Medicare transactions at a programmatic
level. Results: The models averaged 88 for average model accuracy and 38 for
average Kappa during training. Some reported classes are highly independent
from the available data as their predictability remains stable regardless of
redaction of supporting and contradictory evidence. DRG or procedure type
appears to be unpredictable from the available financial transaction values.
Conclusions: Overlay hypotheses such as charges being driven by the volume
served or DRG being related to charges or payments is readily false in this
analysis despite 28 million Americans being billed through Medicare in 2011 and
the program distributing over 70 billion in this transaction set alone. It may
be impossible to predict the dependencies and data structures the payer of last
resort without data from payers of first and second resort. Political concerns
about Medicare would be better served focusing on these first and second order
payer systems as what Medicare costs is not dependent on Medicare itself.