The "algorithm driven by the density estimate for the identification of
clusters" (DEDICA, Pisani 1993, 1996) is applied to the A3558 cluster complex
in order to find substructures. This complex, located at the center of the
Shapley Concentration supercluster, is a chain formed by the ACO clusters
A3556, A3558 and A3562 and the two poor clusters SC 1327-312 and SC 1329-313.
 We find a large number of clumps, indicating that strong dynamical processes
are active. In particular, it is necessary to use a fully three-dimensional
sample(i.e. using the galaxy velocity as third coordinate) in order to recover
also the clumps superimposed along the line of sight. Even if a great number of
detected substructures were already found in a previous analysis (Bardelli et
al. 1998), this method is more efficient and faster when compared with the use
of a wide battery of tests and permits the direct estimate of the detection
significance. Almost all subclusters previously detected by the wavelet
analyses found in the literature are recognized by DEDICA.
 On the basis of the substructure analysis, we also briefly discuss the origin
of the A3558 complex by comparing two hypotheses: 1) the structure is a
cluster-cluster collision seen just after the first core-core encounter; 2)
this complex is the result of a series of incoherent group-group and
cluster-group mergings, focused in that region by the presence of the
surrounding supercluster. We studied the fraction of blue galaxies in the
detected substructures and found that the bluest groups reside between A3562
and A3558, i.e. in the expected position in the scenario of the cluster-cluster
collision.