Cold molecular gas is found in several clusters of galaxies (Edge, 2001,
Salome' & Combes, 2003): single dish telescope observations in CO(1-0) and
CO(2-1) emission lines have revealed the existence of large amounts of cold gas
(up to ~10^11 Msol) in the central region of cooling flow clusters. We present
here interferometric observations performed with the IRAM Plateau de Bure
interferometer in Abell 1795. Comparison with IRAM 30m data shows the cold gas
detected is extended suggesting a cooling flow origin. The CO features
identified are very similar to the structures observed in Halpha and with the
star forming regions observed through UV continuum excess. A large fraction of
the cold gas is not centered on the central cD, but located near brightest
X-ray emitting regions along the North-West orientated radio lobe. The cold gas
kinematics is consistent with the optical nebulosity behaviour in the very
central region. It is not in rotation around the central cD : a velocity
gradient shows the cold gas might be cooled gas from the intra-cluster medium
being accreted by the central galaxy. The optical filaments, aligned with the
cD orbit, are intimately related to the radio jets and lobes. The material
fueling the star formation certainly comes from the deposited gas, cooling more
efficiently along the edge of the radio lobes. Even if some heating mechanisms
are present, these millimetric observations show that an effective cooling to
very low temperatures indeed occurs and is probably accelerated by the presence
of the radio source.