It is well known that the linear stability of Lagrangian elliptic equilateral
triangle homographic solutions in the classical planar three-body problem
depends on the mass parameter $\bb=27(m_1m_2+m_2m_3+m_3m_1)/(m_1+m_2+m_3)^2\in
[0,9]$ and the eccentricity $e\in [0,1)$. We are not aware of any existing
analytical method which relates the linear stability of these solutions to the
two parameters directly in the full rectangle $[0,9]\times [0,1)$, besides
perturbation methods for $e>0$ small enough, blow-up techniques for $e$
sufficiently close to 1, and numerical studies. In this paper, we introduce a
new rigorous analytical method to study the linear stability of these solutions
in terms of the two parameters in the full $(\bb,e)$ range $[0,9]\times [0,1)$
via the $\om$-index theory of symplectic paths for $\om$ belonging to the unit
circle of the complex plane, and the theory of linear operators. After
establishing the $\om$-index decreasing property of the solutions in $\bb$ for
fixed $e\in [0,1)$, we prove the existence of three curves located from left to
right in the rectangle $[0,9]\times [0,1)$, among which two are -1 degeneracy
curves and the third one is the right envelop curve of the $\om$-degeneracy
curves for $\om\not=1$, and show that the linear stability pattern of such
elliptic Lagrangian solutions changes if and only if the parameter $(\bb,e)$
passes through each of these three curves. Interesting symmetries of these
curves are also observed. The singular case when the eccentricity $e$
approaches to 1 is also analyzed in details concerning the linear stability.