We compute nucleon and Roper e.m. elastic and transition form factors using a
symmetry-preserving treatment of a contact-interaction. Obtained thereby, the
e.m. interactions of baryons are typically described by hard form factors. In
contrasting this behaviour with that produced by a momentum-dependent
interaction, one achieves comparisons which highlight that elastic scattering
and resonance electroproduction experiments probe the infrared evolution of
QCD's running masses; e.g., the existence, and location if so, of a zero in the
ratio of nucleon Sachs form factors are strongly influenced by the running of
the dressed-quark mass. In our description of baryons, diquark correlations are
important. These correlations are instrumental in producing a zero in the Dirac
form factor of the proton's d-quark; and in determining d_v/u_v(x=1), as we
show via a formula that expresses d_v/u_v(x=1) in terms of the nucleon's
diquark content. The contact interaction produces a first excitation of the
nucleon that is constituted predominantly from axial-vector diquark
correlations. This impacts greatly on the gamma*p->P_{11}(1440) form factors.
Notably, our quark core contribution to F_2*(Q^2) exhibits a zero at
Q^2~0.5mN^2. Faddeev equation treatments of a hadron's quark core usually
underestimate its magnetic properties, hence we consider the effect produced by
a dressed-quark anomalous e.m. moment. Its inclusion much improves agreement
with experiment. On the domain 0<Q^2<2GeV^2, meson-cloud effects are important
in making a realistic comparison between experiment and hadron structure
calculations. Our computed helicity amplitudes are similar to the bare
amplitudes in coupled-channels analyses of the electroproduction process. Thus
supports a view that extant structure calculations should directly be compared
with the bare-couplings, etc., determined via coupled-channels analyses.