Over the last decades strong efforts have been made to apply new spaceborn
technologies to the study and possible forecast of strong earthquakes. In this
study we use ASTER/TERRA multispectral satellite images for detection and
analysis of changes in the system of lineaments previous to a strong
earthquake. A lineament is a straight or a somewhat curved feature in an image,
which it is possible to detect by a special processing of images based on
directional filtering and or Hough transform. "The Lineament Extraction and
Stripes Statistic Analysis" (LESSA) software package, developed by Zlatopolsy
(1992, 1997). We assume that the lineaments allow to detect, at least
partially, the presence ruptures in the Earths crust, and therefore enable one
to follow the changes in the system of faults and fractures associated with
strong earthquakes. We analysed 6 earthquakes occurred in the Pacific coast of
the South America and XXX with the Richter scale magnitude >4.5. They were
located in the regions with small seasonal variations and limited vegetation to
facilitate the tracking of features associated with the seismic activity only.
It was found that the number and orientation of lineaments changed
significantly about one month before an earthquake approximately, and a few
months later the system returns to its initial state. This effect increases
with the earthquake magnitude, and it is much more easily detectable in case of
convergent plate boundaries (for example, Nasca and South American plates). The
results obtained open a possibility to develop a methodology able to evaluate
the seismic risk in the regions with similar geological conditions.