Biologists rely heavily on the language of information, coding, and
transmission that is commonplace in the field of information theory as
developed by Claude Shannon, but there is open debate about whether such
language is anything more than facile metaphor. Philosophers of biology have
argued that when biologists talk about information in genes and in evolution,
they are not talking about the sort of information that Shannon's theory
addresses. First, philosophers have suggested that Shannon theory is only
useful for developing a shallow notion of correlation, the so-called "causal
sense" of information. Second they typically argue that in genetics and
evolutionary biology, information language is used in a "semantic sense,"
whereas semantics are deliberately omitted from Shannon theory. Neither
critique is well-founded. Here we propose an alternative to the causal and
semantic senses of information: a transmission sense of information, in which
an object X conveys information if the function of X is to reduce, by virtue of
its sequence properties, uncertainty on the part of an agent who observes X.
The transmission sense not only captures much of what biologists intend when
they talk about information in genes, but also brings Shannon's theory back to
the fore. By taking the viewpoint of a communications engineer and focusing on
the decision problem of how information is to be packaged for transport, this
approach resolves several problems that have plagued the information concept in
biology, and highlights a number of important features of the way that
information is encoded, stored, and transmitted as genetic sequence.