Traditionally health statistics are derived from civil registration and vital
statistics (CRVS). CRVS in low- to middle-income countries varies from partial
coverage to essentially nothing at all. Consequently the state of the art for
public health information in low- to middle-income countries is efforts to
combine or triangulate data from different sources to produce a more complete
picture across both time and space - what we term 'data melding'. Data sources
amendable to this approach include sample surveys, sample registration systems,
health and demographic surveillance systems, administrative records, census
records, health facility records and others. There are very few useful
demonstrations of data melding, and the two of which we are aware both relate
to HIV prevalence.
  We propose a new statistical framework for gathering health and population
data - Hyak - that leverages the benefits of sampling and longitudinal,
prospective surveillance to create a cheap, accurate, sustainable monitoring
platform.
  We conduct a simulation study of the informed sampling component of Hyak
based on the Agincourt health and demographic surveillance system site in South
Africa. Compared to traditionally cluster sampling, Hyak's informed sampling
captures more deaths, and when combined with an estimation model that includes
spatial smoothing, produces estimates of both mortality counts and mortality
rates that have lower variance and small bias.
  We compare the relative cost and precision of Hyak to traditional repeated
cluster samples to measure mortality. We find that in as short as two years
Hyak is substantially more cost-effective and accurate than current systems.