There has been much debate over whether or not one could explain the observed
acceleration of the Universe with inhomogeneous cosmological models, such as
the spherically-symmetric Lemaitre-Tolman-Bondi (LTB) models. It has been
claimed that the central observer in these models can observe a local
acceleration, which would contradict general theorems. We resolve the
contradiction by noting that many of the models that have been explored contain
a weak singularity at the location of the observer which makes them unphysical.
In the absence of this singularity, we show that LTB models must have a
positive central deceleration parameter $q_{0}$, in agreement with the general
theorems. We also show that it is possible to achieve a negative apparent
deceleration parameter at nonzero redshifts in LTB models that do not contain
this singularity. However, we find other singularities that tend to arise in
LTB models when attempting to match luminosity distance data, and these
generally limit the range of redshifts for which these models can mimic
observations of an accelerating Universe. Exceptional models do exist that can
extend to arbitrarily large redshift without encountering these pathologies,
and we show how these may be constructed. These special models exhibit regions
with negative effective equation of state parameter, which may fall below
negative one, but we have failed to find any singularity-free models that agree
with observations. Moreover, models based on dust-filled LTB metrics probably
fail to reproduce observed properties of large scale structure.