This paper explores a Gaussian process emulator based approach for rapid
Bayesian inference of contaminant source location and characteristics in an
indoor environment. In the pre-event detection stage, the proposed approach
represents transient contaminant fate and transport as a random function with
multivariate Gaussian process prior. Hyper-parameters of the Gaussian process
prior are inferred using a set of contaminant fate and transport simulation
runs obtained at predefined source locations and characteristics. This paper
uses an integrated multizone-CFD model to simulate contaminant fate and
transport. Mean of the Gaussian process, conditional on the inferred
hyper-parameters, is used as an computationally efficient statistical emulator
of the multizone-CFD simulator. In the post event-detection stage, the Bayesian
framework is used to infer the source location and characteristics using the
contaminant concentration data obtained through a sensor network. The Gaussian
process emulator of the contaminant fate and transport is used for Markov Chain
Monte Carlo sampling to efficiently explore the posterior distribution of
source location and characteristics. Efficacy of the proposed method is
demonstrated for a hypothetical contaminant release through multiple sources in
a single storey seven room building. The method is found to infer location and
characteristics of the multiple sources accurately. The posterior distribution
obtained using the proposed method is found to agree closely with the posterior
distribution obtained by directly coupling the multizone-CFD simulator with the
Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling.