We report the discovery of a microlensing exoplanet OGLE-2012-BLG-0563Lb with
the planet-star mass ratio ~1 x 10^{-3}. Intensive photometric observations of
a high-magnification microlensing event allow us to detect a clear signal of
the planet. Although no parallax signal is detected in the light curve, we
instead succeed at detecting the flux from the host star in high-resolution
JHK'-band images obtained by the Subaru/AO188 and IRCS instruments, allowing us
to constrain the absolute physical parameters of the planetary system. With the
help of a spectroscopic information of the source star obtained during the
high-magnification state by Bensby et al. (2013), we find that the lens system
is located at 1.3^{+0.6}_{-0.8} kpc from us, and consists of an M dwarf
(0.34^{+0.12}_{-0.20} M_sun) orbited by a Saturn-mass planet
(0.39^{+0.14}_{-0.23} M_Jup) at the projected separation of
0.74^{+0.26}_{-0.42} AU (close model) or 4.3^{+1.5}_{-2.5} AU (wide model). The
probability of contamination in the host star's flux, which would reduce the
masses by a factor of up to 3, is estimated to be 17%. This possibility can be
tested by future high-resolution imaging. We also estimate the (J-Ks) and
(H-Ks) colors of the host star, which are marginally consistent with a
low-metallicity mid-to-early M dwarf, although further observations are
required for the metallicity to be conclusive. This is the fifth
sub-Jupiter-mass (0.2<m_p/M_Jup<1) microlensing planet around an M dwarf with
the mass well constrained. The relatively rich harvest of sub-Jupiters around M
dwarfs is contrasted with a possible paucity of ~1--2 Jupiter-mass planets
around the same type of star, which can be explained by the planetary formation
process in the core accretion scheme.