The Sun is an active source of radio emission which is often associated with
energetic phenomena such as solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs). At
low radio frequencies (<100 MHz), the Sun has not been imaged extensively
because of the instrumental limitations of previous radio telescopes. Here, the
combined high spatial, spectral and temporal resolution of the Low Frequency
Array (LOFAR) was used to study solar Type III radio bursts at 30-90 MHz and
their association with CMEs. The Sun was imaged with 126 simultaneous
tied-array beams within 5 solar radii of the solar centre. This method offers
benefits over standard interferometric imaging since each beam produces high
temporal (83 ms) and spectral resolution (12.5 kHz) dynamic spectra at an array
of spatial locations centred on the Sun. LOFAR's standard interferometric
output is currently limited to one image per second. Over a period of 30
minutes, multiple Type III radio bursts were observed, a number of which were
found to be located at high altitudes (4 solar radii from the solar center at
30 MHz) and to have non-radial trajectories. These bursts occurred at altitudes
in excess of values predicted by 1D radial electron density models. The
non-radial high altitude Type III bursts were found to be associated with the
expanding flank of a CME. The CME may have compressed neighbouring streamer
plasma producing larger electron densities at high altitudes, while the
non-radial burst trajectories can be explained by the deflection of radial
magnetic fields as the CME expanded in the low corona.