We conducted Herschel/PACS observations of five very low-mass stars or brown
dwarfs located in the TW Hya association with the goal of characterizing the
properties of disks in the low stellar mass regime. We detected all five
targets at $70\,\mu{\rm{m}}$ and $100\,\mu{\rm{m}}$ and three targets at
$160\,\mu{\rm{m}}$. Our observations, combined with previous photometry from
2MASS, WISE, and SCUBA-2, enabled us to construct SEDs with extended wavelength
coverage. Using sophisticated radiative transfer models, we analyzed the
observed SEDs of the five detected objects with a hybrid fitting strategy that
combines the model grids and the simulated annealing algorithm and evaluated
the constraints on the disk properties via the Bayesian inference method. The
modelling suggests that disks around low-mass stars and brown dwarfs are
generally flatter than their higher mass counterparts, but the range of disk
mass extends to well below the value found in T Tauri stars, and the disk scale
heights are comparable in both groups. The inferred disk properties (i.e., disk
mass, flaring, and scale height) in the low stellar mass regime are consistent
with previous findings from large samples of brown dwarfs and very low-mass
stars. We discuss the dependence of disk properties on their host stellar
parameters and find a significant correlation between the Herschel far-IR
fluxes and the stellar effective temperatures, probably indicating that the
scaling between the stellar and disk masses (i.e., $M_{\rm{disk}} \propto
M_{\star}$) observed mainly in low-mass stars may extend down to the brown
dwarf regime.