The Australia Telescope National Facility Mopra millimetre telescope has been
used to search for 95.1-GHz class I methanol masers towards sixty-two 6.6-GHz
class II methanol masers. A total of twenty-six 95.1-GHz masers were detected,
eighteen of these being new discoveries. Combining the results of this search
with observations reported in the literature, a near complete sample of
sixty-six 6.6-GHz class II methanol masers has been searched in the 95.1-GHz
transition, with detections towards 38 per cent (twenty-five detections ; not
all of the sources studied in this paper qualify for the complete sample, and
some of the sources in the sample were not observed in the present
observations). There is no evidence of an anti-correlation between either the
velocity range, or peak flux density of the class I and II transitions,
contrary to suggestions from previous studies. The majority of class I methanol
maser sources have a velocity range that partially overlaps with the class II
maser transitions. The presence of a class I methanol maser associated with a
class II maser source is not correlated with the presence (or absence) of
main-line OH or water masers. Investigations of the properties of the infrared
emission associated with the maser sources shows no significant difference
between those class II methanol masers with an associated class I maser and
those without. This may be consistent with the hypothesis that the objects
responsible for driving class I methanol masers are generally not those that
produce main-line OH, water or class II methanol masers.