The Smith high velocity cloud (V(LSR) = 98 kms) has been observed at two
locations in the emission lines [OIII]5007, [NII]6548 and H-alpha. Both the
[NII] and H-alpha profiles show bright cores due to the Reynolds layer, and red
wings with emission extending to V(LSR) = 130 kms. This is the first
simultaneous detection of two emission lines towards a high velocity cloud,
allowing us to form the ratio of these line profiles as a function of LSR
velocity. At both cloud positions, we see a clear distinction between emission
at the cloud velocity, and the Reynolds layer emission (V(LSR) = 0). The
[NII]/H-alpha ratio (=0.25) for the Reynolds layer is typical of the warm
ionised medium. At the cloud velocity, this ratio is enhanced by a factor of
3-4 compared to emission at rest with respect to the LSR. A moderately deep
upper limit at [OIII] (0.12R at 3-sigma) was derived from our data. If the
emission arises from dilute photoionisation from hot young stars, the highly
enhanced [NII]/H-alpha ratio, the [OIII] non-detection and weak H-alpha
emission (0.24-0.30R) suggest that the Smith Cloud is 26+/-4 kpc from the Sun,
at a Galactocentric radius of 20+/-4 kpc. This value assumes that the emission
arises from an optically thick slab, with a covering fraction of unity as seen
by the ionizing photons, whose orientation is either (a) parallel to the
Galactic disk, or (b) such as to maximize the received flux from the disk. The
estimated mass and size of the cloud are 4x10^6 Msun and 6 kpc. We discuss a
possible association with the much larger Sgr dwarf, at a galactocentric radius
of 16+/-2 kpc, which lies within 35 degrees (~12 kpc) of the Smith Cloud.