Recently, we have developed and calibrated the Synthetic Field Method (SFM)
to derive the total extinction through disk galaxies. The method is based on
the number counts and colors of distant background field galaxies that can be
seen through the foreground object, and has been successfully applied to NGC
4536 and NGC 3664, two late-type galaxies located, respectively, at 16 and 11
Mpc. Here, we study the applicability of the SFM to HST images of galaxies in
the Local Group, and show that background galaxies cannot be easily identified
through these nearby objects, even with the best resolution available today. In
the case of M 31, each pixel in the HST images contains 50 to 100 stars, and
the background galaxies cannot be seen because of the intrinsic granularity due
to strong surface brightness fluctuations. In the LMC, on the other hand, there
is only about one star every six linear pixels, and the lack of detectable
background galaxies results from a ``secondary'' granularity, introduced by
structure in the wings of the point spread function. The success of the SFM in
NGC 4536 and NGC 3664 is a natural consequence of the reduction of the
intensity of surface brightness fluctuations with distance. When the dominant
confusion factor is structure in the PSF wings, as is the case of HST images of
the LMC, and would happen in M 31 images obtained with a 10-m diffraction-
limited optical telescope, it becomes in principle possible to improve the
detectability of background galaxies by subtracting the stars in the foreground
object. However, a much better characterization of optical PSFs than is
currently available would be required for an adequate subtraction of the wings.
Given the importance of determining the dust content of Local Group galaxies,
efforts should be made in that direction.