We present new data exploring the scaling relations, such as the Tully-Fisher
relation (TFR), of bright barred and unbarred galaxies. A primary motivation
for this study is to establish whether barredness correlates with, and is a
consequence of, virial properties of galaxies. Various lines of evidence
suggest that dark matter is dominant in disks of bright unbarred galaxies at
2.2 disk scale lengths, the point of peak rotation for a pure exponential disk.
We test the hypothesis that the TF plane of barred high surface brightness
galaxies is offset from the mean TFR of unbarred galaxies, as might be expected
if barred galaxies are ``maximal'' in their inner parts. We use existing and
new TF data to search for basic structural differences between barred and
unbarred galaxies. Our new data consist of 2-dimensional Halpha velocity fields
derived from SparsePak integral field spectroscopy (IFS) and V,I-band CCD
images collected at the WIYN Observatory for 14 strongly barred galaxies. We
use WIYN/SparsePak (2-D) velocity fields to show that long-slit (1-D) spectra
yield reliable circular speed measurements at or beyond 2.2 disk scale lengths,
far from any influence of the bar. This enables us to consider line width
measurements from extensive TF surveys which include barred and nonbarred disks
and derive detailed scaling relation comparisons. We find that for a given
luminosity, barred and unbarred galaxies have comparable structural and
dynamical parameters, such as peak velocities, scale lengths, or colors. In
particular, the location of a galaxy in the TF plane is independent of
barredness. In a global dynamical sense, barred and unbarred galaxies behave
similarly and are likely to have, on average, comparable fractions of luminous
and dark matter at a given radius. (abridged)