We consider a contribution of microlensing in X-ray variability of
high-redshifted QSOs. Such an effect could be caused by stellar mass objects
(SMO) located in a bulge or/and in a halo of this quasar as well as at
cosmological distances between an observer and a quasar. Here, we not
considerability of microlensing caused by deflectors in our Galaxy since it is
well-known from recent MACHO, EROS and OGLE observations that the corresponding
optical depth for the Galactic halo and the Galactic bulge is lower than
$10^{-6}$. Cosmologically distributed gravitational microlenses could be
localized in galaxies (or even in bulge or halo of gravitational macrolenses)
or could be distributed in a uniform way. We have analyzed both cases of such
distributions. As a result of our analysis, we obtained that an optical depth
for microlensing caused by stellar mass objects is usually small for quasar
bulge and quasar halo gravitational microlens distributions ($\tau\sim
10^{-4}$). On the other hand, the optical depth for gravitational microlensing
caused by cosmologically distributed deflectors could be significant and could
reach $10^{-2} - 0.1$ at $z\sim 2$. It means that cosmologically distributed
deflectors may significantlly contribute to the X-ray variability of
high-redshifted QSOs ($z>2$). Considering that upper limit of the optical depth
($\tau\sim 0.1$) corresponds to the case when dark matter forms cosmologically
distributed deflectors, therefore observations of X-ray variations of unlensend
QSOs can be used for the estimation of the dark matter fraction of microlenses.