Aims: We study the distribution of Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars and their subtypes
with respect to their host galaxy light distribution. We thus want to
investigate whether WR stars are potential progenitors of stripped-envelope
core-collapse supernovae (SNe) and/or long-duration gamma-ray bursts (LGRBs).
Methods: We derived the relative surface brightness (fractional flux) at the
locations of WR stars and compared with similar results for LGRBs and SNe. We
examined two nearby galaxies, M 83 and NGC 1313, for which a comprehensive
study of the WR population exists. These two galaxies contain a sufficiently
large number of WR stars and sample different metallicities. To enable the
comparison, the images of the galaxies were processed to make them appear as
they would look at a higher redshift. The robustness of our results against
several sources of uncertainty was investigated with the aid of Monte Carlo
simulations. Results: We find that the WC star distribution favours brighter
pixels than the WN star population. WC stars are more likely drawn from the
same distribution as SNe Ic than from other SN distributions, while WN stars
show a higher degree of association with SNe Ib. It can also not be excluded
that WR (especially WC) stars are related to LGRBs. Some differences between
the two galaxies do exist, especially in the subtype distributions, and may
stem from differences in metallicity. Conclusions: Although a conclusive answer
is not possible, the expectation that WR stars are the progenitors of SNe Ib/c
and LGRBs survives this test. The trend observed between the distributions of
WN and WC stars, as compared to those of SNe Ib and Ic, is consistent with the
theoretical picture that SNe Ic result from progenitors that have been stripped
of a larger part of their envelope.