As grids are in essence heterogeneous, dynamic, shared and distributed
environments, managing these kinds of platforms efficiently is extremely
complex. A promising scalable approach to deal with these intricacies is the
design of self-managing of autonomic applications. Autonomic applications adapt
their execution accordingly by considering knowledge about their own behaviour
and environmental conditions.QoS based User Driven scheduling for grid that
provides the self-optimizing ability in autonomic applications. Computational
grids to provide a user to solve large scale problem by spreading a single
large computation across multiple machines of physical location. QoS based User
Driven scheduler for grid also provides reliability of the grid systems and
increase the performance of the grid to reducing the execution time of job by
applying scheduling policies defined by the user. The main aim of this paper is
to distribute the computational load among the available grid nodes and to
developed a QoS based scheduling algorithm for grid and making grid more
reliable.Grid computing system is different from conventional distributed
computing systems by its focus on large scale resource sharing, where
processors and communication have significant inuence on Grid computing
reliability. Reliability capabilities initiated by end users from within
applications they submit to the grid for execution. Reliability of
infrastructure and management services that perform essential functions
necessary for grid systems to operate, such as resource allocation and
scheduling.