A thin infinitely long elastic shell is stiffened by $J$ in number identical
lengthwise ribs distributed uniformly around the circumference and joined to a
rod in the center. The 2D model of the substructure is a rigid central mass
supported by $J$ axisymmetrically placed linear springs. The response of the
shell-spring-mass system is quite different from a fluid filled shell or that
of a solid cylinder due to the discrete number of contact points which couple
the displacement of the shell at different locations. Exterior acoustic
scattering due to normal plane wave incidence is solved in closed form for
arbitrary $J$. The scattering matrix associated with the normal mode solution
displays a simple structure, composed of distinct sub-matrices which decouple
the incident and scattered fields into $J$ families. The presence of a
springs-mass substructure causes resonances which are shown to be related to
the subsonic shell flexural waves, and an approximate analytic expression is
derived for the quasi-flexural resonance frequencies. Numerical simulations
indicate that the new solution for $J\ge 3$ springs results in a complicated
scattering response for plane wave incidence. As the number of springs becomes
large enough, the total scattering cross-section is asymptotically zero at low
frequencies and slightly increased compared to the empty shell at moderate
frequencies due to the added stiffness and mass. It is also observed that the
sensitivity to the angle of incidence diminishes as the number of springs is
increased. This system can be tuned by selecting the shell thickness, spring
stiffness and added mass to yield desired quasi-static effective properties
making it a candidate element for graded index sonic crystals.