The effect of the electron density stratification on the intensity profiles
of the H I Ly-$\alpha$ line and the O VI and Mg X doublets formed in solar
coronal holes is investigated. We employ an analytical 2-D model of the large
scale coronal magnetic field that provides a good representation of the corona
at the minimum of solar activity. We use the mass-flux conservation equation to
determine the outflow speed of the solar wind at any location in the solar
corona and take into account the integration along the line of sight (LOS). The
main assumption we make is that no anisotropy in the kinetic temperature of the
coronal species is considered. We find that at distances greater than 1 Rsun
from the solar surface the widths of the emitted lines of O VI and Mg X are
sensitive to the details of the adopted electron density stratification.
However, Ly-$\alpha$, which is a pure radiative line, is hardly affected. The
calculated total intensities of Ly-$\alpha$ and the O VI doublet depend to a
lesser degree on the density stratification and are comparable to the observed
ones for most of the considered density models. The widths of the observed
profiles of Ly-$\alpha$ and Mg X are well reproduced by most of the considered
electron density stratifications, while for the O VI doublet only few
stratifications give satisfying results. The densities deduced from SOHO data
result in O VI profiles whose widths and intensity ratio are relatively close
to the values observed by UVCS although only isotropic velocity distributions
are employed. These density profiles also reproduce the other considered
observables with good accuracy. Thus the need for a strong anisotropy of the
velocity distribution (i.e. a temperature anisotropy) is not so clear cut as
previous investigations of UVCS data suggested. ...