(Context.) A number of millimeter and submillimeter facilities with linear
polarization observing capabilities have started operating during last years.
These facilities, as well as other previous millimeter telescopes and
interferometers, require bright and stable linear polarization calibrators to
calibrate new instruments and to monitor their instrumental polarization. The
current limited number of adequate calibrators implies difficulties in the
acquisition of these calibration observations. (Aims.) Looking for additional
linear polarization calibrators in the millimeter spectral range, in mid-2006
we started monitoring 3C 286, a standard and highly stable polarization
calibrator for radio observations. (Methods.) Here we present the 3 and 1 mm
monitoring observations obtained between September 2006 and January 2012 with
the XPOL polarimeter on the IRAM 30 m Millimeter Telescope. (Results.) Our
observations show that 3C 286 is a bright source of constant total flux with 3
mm flux density S_3mm = (0.91 \pm 0.02) Jy. The 3mm linear polarization degree
(p_3mm =[13.5\pm0.3]%) and polarization angle (chi_3mm
=[37.3\pm0.8]deg.,expressed in the equatorial coordinate system) are also
constant during the time span of our observations. Although with poorer time
sampling and signal-to-noise ratio, our 1 mm observations of 3C 286 are also
reproduced by a constant source of 1 mm flux density (S_1mm = [0.30 \pm 0.03]
Jy), polarization fraction (p_1mm = [14.4 \pm 1.8] %), and polarization angle
(chi_1mm = [33.1 \pm 5.7]deg.). (Conclusions.) This, together with the
previously known compact structure of 3C 286 -extended by ~3.5" in the sky-
allow us to propose 3C 286 as a new calibrator for both single dish and
interferometric polarization observations at 3 mm, and possibly at shorter
wavelengths.