Femtocells are assuming an increasingly important role in the coverage and
capacity of cellular networks. In contrast to existing cellular systems,
femtocells are end-user deployed and controlled, randomly located, and rely on
third party backhaul (e.g. DSL or cable modem). Femtocells can be configured to
be either open access or closed access. Open access allows an arbitrary nearby
cellular user to use the femtocell, whereas closed access restricts the use of
the femtocell to users explicitly approved by the owner. Seemingly, the network
operator would prefer an open access deployment since this provides an
inexpensive way to expand their network capabilities, whereas the femtocell
owner would prefer closed access, in order to keep the femtocell's capacity and
backhaul to himself. We show mathematically and through simulations that the
reality is more complicated for both parties, and that the best approach
depends heavily on whether the multiple access scheme is orthogonal (TDMA or
OFDMA, per subband) or non-orthogonal (CDMA). In a TDMA/OFDMA network,
closed-access is typically preferable at high user densities, whereas in CDMA,
open access can provide gains of more than 200% for the home user by reducing
the near-far problem experienced by the femtocell. The results of this paper
suggest that the interests of the femtocell owner and the network operator are
more compatible than typically believed, and that CDMA femtocells should be
configured for open access whereas OFDMA or TDMA femtocells should adapt to the
cellular user density.