Young and directly imaged exoplanets offer critical tests of planet-formation
models that are not matched by RV surveys of mature stars. These targets have
been extremely elusive to date, with no exoplanets younger than 10--20 Myr and
only a handful of direct-imaged exoplanets at all ages. We report the direct
imaging discovery of a likely (proto)planet around the young (~2 Myr) solar
analog LkCa 15, located inside a known gap in the protoplanetary disk (a
"transitional disk"). Our observations use non-redundant aperture masking
interferometry at 3 epochs to reveal a faint and relatively blue point source
($M_K'=9.1+/-0.2, K'-L'=0.98+/-0.22), flanked by approximately co-orbital
emission that is red and resolved into at least two sources (M_L'=7.5+/-0.2,
K'-L'=2.7+/-0.3; M_L'=7.4+/-0.2, K'-L'=1.94+/-0.16). We propose that the most
likely geometry consists of a newly-formed (proto)planet that is surrounded by
dusty material. The nominal estimated mass is ~6 M_{Jup} according to the 1 Myr
hot-start models. However, we argue based on its luminosity, color, and the
presence of circumplanetary material that the planet has likely been caught at
its epoch of assembly, and hence this mass is an upper limit due to its extreme
youth and flux contributed by accretion. The projected separations (71.9 +/-
1.6 mas, 100.7 +/- 1.9 mas, and 88.2 +/- 1.8 mas) and deprojected orbital radii
(16, 21, and 19 AU) correspond to the center of the disk gap, but are too close
to the primary star for a circular orbit to account for the observed inner edge
of the outer disk, so an alternate explanation (i.e., additional planets or an
eccentric orbit) is likely required. This discovery is the first direct
evidence that at least some transitional disks do indeed host newly-formed (or
forming) exoplanetary systems, and the observed properties provide crucial
insight into the gas giant formation process.