We present the first VLBI Space Observatory Programme (VSOP) observations of
the gamma-ray blazar 3C 279 at 1.6 and 5 GHz. The combination of the VSOP and
VLBA-only images at these two frequencies maps the jet structure on scales from
1 to 100 mas. On small angular scales the structure is dominated by the quasar
core and the bright secondary component `C4' located 3 milliarcseconds from the
core (at this epoch). On larger angular scales the structure is dominated by a
jet extending to the southwest, which at the largest scale seen in these images
connects with the smallest scale structure seen in VLA images. We have
exploited two of the main strengths of VSOP: the ability to obtain
matched-resolution images to ground-based images at higher frequencies and the
ability to measure high brightness temperatures. A spectral index map was made
by combining the VSOP 1.6 GHz image with a matched-resolution VLBA-only image
at 5 GHz from our VSOP observation on the following day. The spectral index map
shows the core to have a highly inverted spectrum, with some areas having a
spectral index approaching the limiting value for synchrotron self-absorbed
radiation of 2.5. Gaussian model fits to the VSOP visibilities revealed high
brightness temperatures (>10^{12} K) that are difficult to measure with
ground-only arrays. An extensive error analysis was performed on the brightness
temperature measurements. Most components did not have measurable brightness
temperature upper limits, but lower limits were measured as high as 5x10^{12}
K. This lower limit is significantly above both the nominal inverse Compton and
equipartition brightness temperature limits. The derived Doppler factor,
Lorentz factor, and angle to the line-of-sight in the case of the equipartition
limit are at the upper end of the range of expected values for EGRET blazars.