We investigate the microlensing effects on a source star surrounded by a
circumstellar disk, as a function of wavelength. The microlensing light curve
of the system encodes the geometry and surface brightness profile of the disk.
In the mid- and far-infrared, the emission of the system is dominated by the
thermal emission from the cold dusty disk. For a system located at the Galactic
center, we find typical magnifications to be of order 10-20% or higher,
depending on the disk surface brightness profile, and the event lasts over one
year. At around 20 microns, where the emission for the star and the disk are
comparable, the difference in the emission areas results in a chromatic
microlensing event. Finally, in the near-infrared and visible, where the
emission of the star dominates, the fraction of star light directly reflected
by the disk slightly modifies the light curve of the system which is no longer
that of a point source. In each case, the corresponding light curve can be used
to probe some of the disk properties. A fraction of 0.1% to 1% optical
microlensing events are expected to be associated with circumstellar disk
systems. We show that the lensing signal of the disk can be detected with
sparse follow-up observations of the next generation space telescopes. While
direct imaging studies of circumstellar disks are limited to the solar
neighborhood, this microlensing technique can probe very distant disk systems
living in various environments and has the potential to reveal a larger
diversity of circumstellar disks.