SuperNEMO is a next generation neutrinoless double beta decay experiment with
a design capability to reach a half-life sensitivity of $10^{26}$ years
corresponding to an effective Majorana neutrino mass of $\langle m_{\beta\beta}
\rangle$ $<$ 50 - 100 meV. To achieve this sensitivity, stringent radio-purity
requirements are imposed resulting in an equally stringent screening programme.
Dedicated facilities have been established in the UK for screening and
selection of detector construction materials.
  Gamma ray spectroscopy using high-purity germanium (HPGe) detectors has been
the standard method for the measurement of material contamination. A
low-background facility has been established at Boulby Underground Laboratory.
The first results from the 2 current HPGe detector are shown.
  Radon is one of the most critical backgrounds for SuperNEMO and most other
low background experiments. It can enter the detector either through diffusion,
contamination during construction or emanation from the detector materials
resulting in radioactive daughter isotopes. To reach the target sensitivity,
the $^{222}$Rn concentration inside the SuperNEMO tracker volume must be less
than 150 $\mu$Bq/m3.
  A "Radon Concentration Line" (RnCL) was developed to be used in conjunction
with a state-of-the-art radon detector to make a more sensitive measurement of
large gas volumes. This apparatus has now been commissioned and is capable of
measuring radon levels in large samples down to 10 $\mu$Bq/m3. The results from
first measurements of radon content using the RnCL are presented. These
measurements include gas bottles, boil-off nitrogen and a SuperNEMO sub-module
during the early stages of construction.