One of the main concerns in the design of low emittance linear accelerators
(linacs) is the preservation of beam emittance. Here we discuss one possible
source of emittance dilution, the coupler kick, due to transverse
electromagnetic fields in the accelerating cavities of the linac caused by the
power coupler geometry. In addition to emittance growth, the coupler kick also
produces orbit distortions. It is common wisdom that emittance growth from
coupler kicks can be strongly reduced by using two couplers per cavity mounted
opposite each other or by having the couplers of successive cavities
alternation from above to below the beam pipe so as to cancel each individual
kick. We therefore analyze consequences of alternate coupler placements.
  We show here that for sufficiently large Q values, alternating the coupler
location from before to after the cavity leads to a cancellation of the orbit
distortion but not of the emittance growth, whereas alternating the coupler
location from before and above to behind and below the cavity cancels the
emittance growth but not the orbit distortion. These compensations hold even
when each cavity is individually detuned, e.g. by microphonics. Another
effective method for reducing coupler kicks that is studied is the optimization
of the phase of the coupler kick. This technique is independent of the coupler
geometry but relies on operating on crest. A final technique studied is
symmetrization of the cavity geometry in the coupler region with the addition
of a stub opposite the coupler, which reduces the amplitude of the off axis
fields and is thus effective for off crest acceleration as well.
  We show applications of these techniques to the energy recovery linac (ERL)
planned at Cornell University.