Recent measurements of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation have
shown an apparent tension with the present value of the Hubble parameter
inferred from local observations of supernovae, which look closer, i.e.
brighter, than what is expected in a homogeneous model with a value of $H_0$
equal to the one estimated from CMB observations. We examine the possibility
that such a discrepancy is the consequence of the presence of a local
inhomogeneity seeded by primordial curvature perturbations, finding that a
negative peak of the order of less than two standard deviations could allow to
fit low red-shift supernovae observations without the need of using a value of
the Hubble parameter different from $H_0^{CMB}$. The type of inhomogeneity we
consider does not modify the distance to the last scattering, making it
compatible with the constraints of the PLANCK mission data. The effect on the
luminosity distance is in fact localized around the region in space where the
transition between different values of the curvature perturbations occurs,
producing a local decrease, while the distance outside the inhomogeneity is not
affected. Comparison with studies of local structure based on galaxy surveys
analysis reveals that the density profile we find could in fact be compatible
with the one obtained for the same region of sky where most of the supernovae
used for the local $H_0$ estimation are located, suggesting a possible
directional dependence which could be partially attributed to the presence of
the Sloan Great Wall and hinting to the need of a more careful investigation,
including a wider set of low redshift supernovae in different regions of the
sky.