We present new constraints on the relationship between galaxies and their
host dark matter halos, measured from the location of the peak of the
stellar-to-halo mass ratio (SHMR), up to the most massive galaxy clusters at
redshift $z\sim0.8$ and over a volume of nearly 0.1~Gpc$^3$. We use a unique
combination of deep observations in the CFHTLenS/VIPERS field from the near-UV
to the near-IR, supplemented by $\sim60\,000$ secure spectroscopic redshifts,
analysing galaxy clustering, galaxy-galaxy lensing and the stellar mass
function. We interpret our measurements within the halo occupation distribution
(HOD) framework, separating the contributions from central and satellite
galaxies. We find that the SHMR for the central galaxies peaks at $M_{\rm h,
peak} = 1.9^{+0.2}_{-0.1}\times10^{12} M_{\odot}$ with an amplitude of $0.025$,
which decreases to $\sim0.001$ for massive halos ($M_{\rm h} > 10^{14}
M_{\odot}$). Compared to central galaxies only, the total SHMR (including
satellites) is boosted by a factor 10 in the high-mass regime (cluster-size
halos), a result consistent with cluster analyses from the literature based on
fully independent methods. After properly accounting for differences in
modelling, we have compared our results with a large number of results from the
literature up to $z=1$: we find good general agreement, independently of the
method used, within the typical stellar-mass systematic errors at low to
intermediate mass (${M}_{\star} < 10^{11} M_{\odot}$) and the statistical
errors above. We have also compared our SHMR results to semi-analytic
simulations and found that the SHMR is tilted compared to our measurements in
such a way that they over- (under-) predict star formation efficiency in
central (satellite) galaxies.