Supernova remnants may exhibit both thermal and nonthermal X-ray emission. We
present Chandra observations of RCW 86. Striking differences in the morphology
of X-rays below 1 keV and above 2 keV point to a different physical origin.
Hard X-ray emission is correlated fairly well with the edges of regions of
radio emission, suggesting that these are the locations of shock waves at which
both short-lived X-ray emitting electrons, and longer-lived radio-emitting
electrons, are accelerated. Soft X-rays are spatially well-correlated with
optical emission from nonradiative shocks, which are almost certainly portions
of the outer blast wave. These soft X-rays are well fit with simple thermal
plane-shock models. Harder X-rays show Fe K alpha emission and are well
described with a similar soft thermal component, but a much stronger
synchrotron continuum dominating above 2 keV, and a strong Fe K alpha line.
Quantitative analysis of this line and the surrounding continuum shows that it
cannot be produced by thermal emission from a cosmic-abundance plasma; the
ionization time is too short, as shown both by the low centroid energy (6.4
keV) and the absence of oxygen lines below 1 keV. Instead, a model of a plane
shock into Fe-rich ejecta, with a synchrotron continuum, provides a natural
explanation. This requires that reverse shocks into ejecta be accelerating
electrons to energies of order 50 TeV. We show that maximum energies of this
order can be produced by radiation-limited diffusive shock acceleration at the
reverse shocks.