Image segmentation is a fundamental task for extracting semantically
meaningful regions from an image. The goal is to assign object labels to each
image location. Due to image-noise, shortcomings of algorithms and other
ambiguities in the images, there is uncertainty in the assigned labels. In
multiple application domains, estimates of this uncertainty are important. For
example, object segmentation and uncertainty quantification is essential for
many medical application, including tumor segmentation for radiation treatment
planning. While a Bayesian characterization of the label posterior provides
estimates of segmentation uncertainty, Bayesian approaches can be
computationally prohibitive for practical applications. On the other hand,
typical optimization based algorithms are computationally very efficient, but
only provide maximum a-posteriori solutions and hence no estimates of label
uncertainty.
  In this paper, we propose Active Mean Fields (AMF), a Bayesian technique that
uses a mean-field approximation to derive an efficient segmentation and
uncertainty quantification algorithm. This model, which allows combining any
label-likelihood measure with a boundary length prior, yields a variational
formulation that is convex. A specific implementation of that model is the
Chan--Vese segmentation model (CV), which formulates the binary segmentation
problem through Gaussian likelihoods combined with a boundary-length
regularizer. Furthermore, the Euler--Lagrange equations derived from the AMF
model are equivalent to those of the popular Rudin-Osher-Fatemi (ROF) model for
image de-noising. Solutions to the AMF model can thus be implemented by
directly utilizing highly-efficient ROF solvers on log-likelihood ratio fields.
We demonstrate the approach using synthetic data, as well as real medical
images (for heart and prostate segmentations), and on standard computer vision
test images.