Understanding space usage and resource selection is a primary focus of many
studies of animal populations. Usually, such studies are based on location data
obtained from telemetry, and resource selection functions (RSF) are used for
inference. Another important focus of wildlife research is estimation and
modeling population size and density. Recently developed spatial
capture-recapture (SCR) models accomplish this objective using individual
encounter history data with auxiliary spatial information on location of
capture. SCR models include encounter probability functions that are
intuitively related to RSFs, but to date, no one has extended SCR models to
allow for explicit inference about space usage and resource selection. We
develop a statistical framework for jointly modeling space usage, resource
selection, and population density by integrating SCR data, such as from camera
traps, mist-nets, or conventional catch-traps, with resource selection data
from telemetered individuals. We provide a framework for estimation based on
marginal likelihood, wherein we estimate simultaneously the parameters of the
SCR and RSF models.
  Our method leads to increases in precision for estimating population density
and parameters of ordinary SCR models. Importantly, we also find that SCR
models alone can estimate parameters of resource selection functions and, as
such, SCR methods can be used as the sole source for studying space-usage;
however, precision will be higher when telemetry data are available. Finally,
we find that SCR models using standard symmetric and stationary encounter
probability models produce biased estimates of density when animal space usage
is related to a landscape covariate. Therefore, it is important that space
usage be taken into consideration, if possible, in studies focused on
estimating density using capture-recapture methods.