There are still many open questions as to the physical mechanisms at work in
Low Luminosity AGN that accrete in the extreme sub-Eddington regime.
Simultaneous multi-wavelength studies have been very successful in constraining
the properties of SgrA*, the extremely sub-Eddington black hole at the centre
of our Milky Way. M81*, the nucleus of the nearby spiral galaxy M81, is an
ideal source to extend the insights obtained on SgrA* toward higher luminosity
AGN. Here we present observations at 3 and 1 mm that were obtained within the
framework of a coordinated,multi-wavelength campaign on M81*. The continuum
emission from M81* was observed during three epochs with the IRAM Plateau de
Bure Interferometer simultaneously at wavelengths of 3 and 1 mm. We present the
first flux measurements of M81* at wavelengths around 1 mm. We find that M81*
is a continuously variable source with the higher variability observed at the
shorter wavelength. Also, the variability at 3 and 1 mm appears to be
correlated. Like SgrA*, M81* appears to display the strongest flux density and
variability in the mm-to-submm regime. There remains still some ambiguity
concerning the exact location of the turnover frequency from optically thick to
optically thin emission. The observed variability time scales point to an upper
size limit of the emitting region of the order 25 Schwarzschild radii. The data
show that M81* is indeed a system with very similar physical properties to
SgrA* and an ideal bridge toward high luminosity AGN. The data obtained clearly
demonstrate the usefulness and, above all, the necessity of simultaneous
multi-wavelength observations of LLAGN.