Limiting structure of thermodynamic functions of gaseous plasmas is under
consideration in the limit of zero temperature and density. Remarkable
tendency, which was claimed previously (Iosilevskiy and Gryaznov, 1985) is
carried to extreme. Both equations of state, thermal and caloric ones obtain in
this limit identical stepped structure ("ionization stairs") for plasma of any
single element when this limit (T -> 0, n -> 0) is carried out at fixed value
of chemical potential for electrons (or atoms). The same stepped structure is
valid for plasma of mixtures or compounds. This structure appears within a
fixed (negative) range of chemical potential of electrons bounded below by
value of major ionization potential of element and above by the value depending
on sublimation energy of substance. Binding energies of all possible bound
complexes (atomic, molecular, ionic and clusters) in its ground state are the
only quantities that manifest itself in meaningful details of this limiting
picture as location and value of every step. The sublimation energy this
collection ("intrinsic energy scale"). All thermodynamic differential
parameters (heat capacity, compressibility, etc.) obtain their remarkable
betta-like structures in the zero-temperature limit ("thermodynamic spectrum").
All "lines" of these "spectrum" are centralized just at the elements of the
intrinsic energy scale. The limiting EOS stepped structure of gaseous
zero-Kelvin isotherm is generic prototype of well-known "shell oscillations" in
EOS of gaseous plasmas at low, but finite temperature. This limiting form of
plasma thermodynamics could be used as a natural basis for rigorous deduction
of quasi-chemical approach ("chemical picture") in frames of temperature (not
density!) asymptotic expansion around this reference system.