Forecasts of the focal mechanisms of future earthquakes are important for
seismic hazard estimates and Coulomb stress and other models of earthquake
occurrence. Here we report on a high-resolution global forecast of earthquake
rate density as a function of location, magnitude, and focal mechanism. In
previous publications we reported forecasts of 0.5 degree spatial resolution,
covering the latitude range magnitude, and focal mechanism. In previous
publications we reported forecasts of 0.5 degree spatial resolution, covering
the latitude range from -75 to +75 degrees, based on the Global Central Moment
Tensor earthquake catalog. In the new forecasts we've improved the spatial
resolution to 0.1 degree and the latitude range from pole to pole. Our focal
mechanism estimates require distance-weighted combinations of observed focal
mechanisms within 1000 km of each grid point. Simultaneously we calculate an
average rotation angle between the forecasted mechanism and all the surrounding
mechanisms, using the method of Kagan & Jackson proposed in 1994. This average
angle reveals the level of tectonic complexity of a region and indicates the
accuracy of the prediction. The procedure becomes problematical where longitude
lines are not approximately parallel, and where earthquakes are so sparse that
an adequate sample spans very large distances. North or south of 75 degrees,
the azimuths of points 1000 km away may vary by about 35 degrees. We solved
this problem by calculating focal mechanisms on a plane tangent to the earth's
surface at each forecast point, correcting for the rotation of the longitude
lines at the locations of earthquakes included in the averaging. The
corrections are negligible between -30 and +30 degrees latitude, but outside
that band uncorrected rotations can be significantly off.