This paper presents the results of a study of petroglyphs found in the
quartzite grotto near the Skelnovsky small village in the Northern Black Sea in
the South of Russia. The aim of the study was the analysis and interpretation
of the Early Bronze Age petroglyphs using archaeoastronomical methods. The
article presents a comparative analysis of Skelnovsky grotto ancient images and
contemporary eyewitness accounts of the Sikhote-Alin meteorite fall and
meteorite shower. Some petroglyphs were interpreted by us using ethnographic
and folklore material. In this study, the magnetic declination for the
geographical coordinates Skelnovsky farm was calculated, and the projection of
the whole picture Skelnovskih petroglyphs on the topographical map of the area
was built. The proposed location of the meteorite fall was determined with this
projection. It is confirmed by satellite pictures, on which are the
distinguishable terrain features, typical for the meteorite fall, are visible
including the possible impact crater, and the corresponding symbols on a
topographical map. The studies in the article conclude the astronomical
character of the main content of the Skelnovsky petroglyphs picture which
depicts the fall of a large meteoroid (bolide), similar to the Sikhote-Alin
meteorite, accompanied by a meteorite shower. After a comparative analysis of
the images in Sklenovsky Grotto it was discovered that the petroglyph is a copy
of the figure depicted on the famous Mesopotamic clay tablet YBC 7289. We
speculate that this figure is a prototype of an important building used either
for ritual or farm purposes, typical for the Bronze Age and distributed as in
Mesopotamia, as also on the coast of the Northern Black Sea. archaeoastronomy,
petroglyphs, rock art, meteoroid, meteorite shower, impact crater, Babylonian
clay tablet YBC 7289