The largest and the deepest super-structure known today is the Shapley
super-cluster. This is the sky area with the highest over-density of galaxy
clusters and therefore also an ideal region to test the effects of a high
density environment on galaxies and on clusters. We performed an X-ray survey
of a wide region surrounding the Shapley super-structure. Additionally to
previously known super-cluster X-ray members, we identified diffuse X-ray
emission from 35 cluster candidates without previous X-ray detection. 21 of
them were previously known, optically selected super-cluster members, while the
other candidates had not been previously detected in any wavelength range.
Optical follow-up observations revealed that at least four of these new
candidates also have optical cluster counterparts. The super-cluster shows a
slightly flattened and elongated morphology. Clusters outside the central dense
core are preferentially located in four perpendicular filaments in a similar
way to what is seen in simulations of Large Scale Structure. We measure the
cluster number density in the region to be more than one order of magnitude
higher than the mean density of rich Abell clusters previously observed at
similar Galactic latitudes; this over-density, in the super-cluster outskirts,
is mainly due to an excess of low X-ray luminous clusters (with respect to an
average population), which leads us to think that the whole region is still
accreting low luminosity, small objects from the outskirts. Pushing our total
X-ray mass estimate to fainter clusters would drastically increase the total
super-cluster mass measure, because of the presence of the rich X-ray low
luminosity population.