The development of a new RFQ Cooler, named SHIRaC, was carried out to handle
and cool typical SPIRAL 2 beams of large emittances (up to 80 {\pi}.mm.mrad)
and high currents (up to 1 {\micro}A). SHIRaC is a part of SPIRAL 2 facility at
GANIL laboratory in France. Its purposes are to enhance as much as possible the
beam quality: transverse geometric emittance of less than 3 {\pi}.mm.mrad and a
longitudinal energy spread close to 1 eV, and to transmit more than 60 % of
ions. Numerical simulations and experimental studies have shown that the
required beam quality can be reached only in the term of the emittance. The
energy spread is very far from expected values. It is sensitive to the space
charge and buffer gas diffusion and more importantly to the RF field derivative
effect. The latter arises at the RFQ exit and increases with the following RF
parameters: the frequency and the amplitude of the RF voltage applied to the
RFQ electrodes. Studies allowing to enhance the cooled beam quality, mainly the
energy spread reduction, are presented and discussed along this paper. They
consist in implementing a miniature RFQ at the RFQ exit. Using the development
of these studies, it becomes possible to enhance the cooled beam quality and to
reach 1 eV of longitudinal energy spread and less than 1.8 {\pi}.mm.mrad of
transverse geometric emittance for beam currents going up to 1 {\micro}A. The
transport of the cooled beam from the exit of the extraction section towards a
HRS has been done with an electrostatic quadrupole triplet. Simulations and
first experimental tests showed that more than 95 % of cooled beams can reach
the HRS. Finally, developments related to the nuclearization protection methods
aimed to avoid the escape of any nuclear matter from the SHIRaC beamline are
studied