We present a detailed evaluation of the expected rate of joint
gravitational-wave and short gamma-ray burst (GRB) observations over the coming
years. We begin by evaluating the improvement in distance sensitivity of the
gravitational wave search that arises from using the GRB observation to
restrict the time and sky location of the source. We argue that this gives a
25% increase in sensitivity when compared to an all-sky, all-time search,
corresponding to more than doubling the number of detectable gravitational wave
signals associated with GRBs. Using this, we present the expected rate of joint
observations with the advanced LIGO and Virgo instruments, taking into account
the expected evolution of the gravitational wave detector network. We show that
in the early advanced gravitational wave detector observing runs, from
2015-2017, there is only a small chance of a joint observation. However, as the
detectors approach their design sensitivities, there is a good chance of joint
observations provided wide field GRB satellites, such as Fermi and the
Interplanetary Network, continue operation. The rate will also depend
critically upon the nature of the progenitor, with neutron star--black hole
systems observable to greater distances than double neutron star systems. The
relative rate of binary mergers and GRBs will depend upon the jet opening angle
of GRBs. Consequently, joint observations, as well as accurate measurement of
both the GRB rate and binary merger rates, will allow for an improved
estimation of the opening angle of GRBs.