We present the discovery, classification, and extensive panchromatic (from
radio to X-ray) follow-up observations of PTF11qcj, a supernova discovered by
the Palomar Transient Factory. PTF11qcj is located at a distance of dL ~ 124
Mpc. Our observations with the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array show that this
event is radio-loud: PTF11qcj reached a radio peak luminosity comparable to
that of the famous gamma-ray-burst-associated supernova 1998bw (L_{5GHz} ~
10^{29} erg/s/Hz). PTF11qcj is also detected in X-rays with the Chandra
observatory, and in the infrared band with Spitzer. Our multi-wavelength
analysis probes the supernova interaction with circumstellar material. The
radio observations suggest a progenitor mass-loss rate of ~10^{-4} Msun/yr x
(v_w/1000 km/s), and a velocity of ~(0.3-0.5)c for the fastest moving ejecta
(at ~10d after explosion). However, these estimates are derived assuming the
simplest model of supernova ejecta interacting with a smooth circumstellar
material characterized by radial power-law density profile, and do not account
for possible inhomogeneities in the medium and asphericity of the explosion.
The radio light curve shows deviations from such a simple model, as well as a
re-brightening at late times. The X-ray flux from PTF11qcj is compatible with
the high-frequency extrapolation of the radio synchrotron emission (within the
large uncertainties). An IR light echo from pre-existing dust is in agreement
with our infrared data. Our analysis of pre-explosion data from the Palomar
Transient Factory suggests that a precursor eruption of absolute magnitude M_r
~ -13 mag may have occurred ~ 2.5 yr prior to the supernova explosion. Based on
our panchromatic follow-up campaign, we conclude that PTF11qcj fits the
expectations from the explosion of a Wolf-Rayet star. Precursor eruptions may
be a feature characterizing the final pre-explosion evolution of such stars.