Aims: By using kinematical information, we test the membership of the new
Lupus candidate members proposed by the Cores to Disks (c2d) Spitzer Legacy
Program program and by a complementary optical survey. We also investigate the
relationship between the proper motions (pm) and other properties, in order to
get some clues about their formation and early evolution. Methods: We compiled
a list of members and possible members of Lupus 1, 3, and 4, together with all
information on their spectral types, disks, and physical parameters. Using
VO-tools, we cross-matched this list with the astrometric catalogues to get pm.
Our final sample contains sources with magnitudes I<16mag and estimated masses
>~0.1Msun. Results: According to the kinematic information, our sources can be
divided into two main groups. The first one contains sources with higher pm in
agreement with other Gould Belt populations and with spatial distribution,
optical and near-infrared colours, and disk composition consistent with these
objects belonging to the Lupus clouds. In the second group, sources have lower
pm with random orientations, and they are mostly located outside the cloud
cores, making their association with the Lupus complex more doubtful. We
investigate the properties of the higher pm group, but cannot find any
correlations with spatial location, binarity, the presence of a circumstellar
disk, or with physical properties such as effective temperature, luminosity,
mass, or age. Conclusions: We conclude that the lower pm group probably
represents a background population or mixture of populations unrelated to the
Lupus clouds. The higher pm group, on the other hand, has properties consistent
with it being a genuine population of the Lupus star-forming region. More
accurate pm and/or radial velocity information are required for a more detailed
study of the kinematic properties of the Lupus stellar members.