We propose a novel method to extract the imprint of gravitational lensing by
Pop III stars in the light curves of Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs). Significant
portions of GRBs can originate in hypernovae of Pop III stars and be
gravitationally lensed by foreground Pop III stars or their remnants. If the
lens mass is on the order of $10^2-10^3M_\odot$ and the lens redshift is
greater than 10, the time delay between two lensed images of a GRB is $\approx
1$s and the image separation is $\approx 10 \mu$as. Although it is difficult to
resolve the two lensed images spatially with current facilities, the light
curves of two images are superimposed with a delay of $\approx 1$ s. GRB light
curves usually exhibit noticeable variability, where each spike is less than
1s. If a GRB is lensed, all spikes are superimposed with the same time delay.
Hence, if the autocorrelation of light curve with changing time interval is
calculated, it should show the resonance at the time delay of lensed images.
Applying this autocorrelation method to GRB light curves which are archived as
the {\it BATSE} catalogue, we demonstrate that more than half light curves can
show the recognizable resonance, if they are lensed. Furthermore, in 1821 GRBs
we actually find one candidate of GRB lensed by a Pop III star, which may be
located at redshift 20-200. The present method is quite straightforward and
therefore provides an effective tool to search for Pop III stars at redshift
greater than 10. Using this method, we may find more candidates of GRBs lensed
by Pop III stars in the data by the {\it Swift} satellite.