We present an exploratory Chandra ACIS-S3 study of the diffuse component of
the Cosmic X-ray Background in the 0.3-7 keV band for four directions at high
Galactic latitudes, with emphasis on details of the ACIS instrumental
background modeling. Observations of the dark Moon are used to model the
detector background. A comparison of the Moon data and the data obtained with
ACIS stowed outside the focal area showed that the dark Moon does not emit
significantly in our band. Point sources down to 3 10^-16 erg/s/cm2 in the
0.5-2 keV band are excluded in our two deepest observations. We estimate the
contribution of fainter, undetected sources to be less than 20% of the
remaining CXB flux in this band in all four pointings. In the 0.3-1 keV band,
the diffuse signal varies strongly from field to field and contributes between
55% and 90% of the total CXB signal. It is dominated by emission lines that can
be modeled by a kT=0.1-0.4 keV plasma. In particular, the two fields located
away from bright Galactic features show a prominent line blend at E=580 eV (O
VII + O VIII) and a possible line feature at E~300 eV. The two pointings toward
the North Polar Spur exhibit a brighter O blend and additional bright lines at
730-830 eV (Fe XVII). We measure the total 1-2 keV flux of (1.0-1.2 +-0.2)
10^-15 erg/s/cm2/arcmin (mostly resolved), and the 2-7 keV flux of (4.0-4.5
+-1.5) 10^-15 erg/s/cm2/arcmin. At E>2 keV, the diffuse emission is consistent
with zero, to an accuracy limited by the short Moon exposure and systematic
uncertainties of the S3 background. Assuming Galactic or local origin of the
line emission, we put an upper limit of 3 10^-15 erg/s/cm2/arcmin on the 0.3-1
keV extragalactic diffuse flux.