We present analysis and modeling of X-ray spectra from the blast wave shock
of DEM L71. We have used both Chandra ACIS-S data and optical Fabry-Perot
spectra of the blast wave to measure the electron and proton temperatures,
respectively. In principle, when combined, these measurements can determine the
degree of electron-ion temperature equilibration (g_0 = T_e/T_p) immediately
behind the shock front. In our X-ray analysis we fit Chandra spectra of three
nested regions behind the blast wave under three different scenarios: (1) a
planar, initially unequilibrated shock (g_0 = m_e/m_p), where the downstream
electron and proton temperatures equilibrate through Coulomb collisions, (2) a
planar, immediately equilibrated shock (g_0 = 1) and (3) a spherical,
equilibrated shock under Sedov evolution. Using independent measurements of T_e
and T_p we find that the X-ray spectra from the fastest blast wave locations
(V_s~700-1000 km/s) are consistent with little or no equilibration at the shock
front and are inconsistent with full equilibration. In contrast, spectra from
regions showing slower blast wave speeds (V_s~400-600 km/s) allow full
equilibration but exclude zero equilibration. In order to directly constrain
the initial equilibration, we incorporated our knowledge of the proton
temperatures into our X-ray models to build planar shock models that allowed
for a variable g_0. This model confirmed and strengthened the above results.
Specifically, we found that X-ray spectra from an intermediate velocity shock
(V_s~800 km/s) were consistent with intermediate equilibration, excluding both
g_0 = m_e/m_p and g_0 = 1 at greater than 1 sigma. Overall, our results support
the picture of decreasing electron-ion equilibration with increasing shock
speed.