Abridged: We present a detailed multi-wavelength study of the bright-rimmed
cloud SFO 75, including 1.3cm and 1.2mm continuum, and 13CO and ammonia
spectral line observations. The 13CO and 1.2 mm emission reveals the presence
of a dense core located behind the bright rim of the cloud which is
approximately coincident with that of the IRAS point source. From an analysis
of the IRAS and 1.2mm fluxes we derive a dust temperature of ~30 K, a
luminosity of 1.6x10^4 L\odot and estimate the core mass to be ~570 M\odot. The
higher resolution ammonia observations resolve the 1.2mm core into two distinct
cores, one directly behind the cloud's rim (Core A) and the second located
slightly farther back (Core B). Comparing the morphology of Core A with that of
the photon-dominated region and ionised boundary layer leaves little doubt that
it is being strongly affected by the ionisation front. 2MASS and GLIMPSE
archive data which reveal a small cluster of three deeply embedded high- and
intermediate-mass young stellar objects towards Core A leads us to conclude
that the star formation found towards this core has been triggered. In stark
contrast, Core B appears to have a much simpler, almost spherical, morphology.
No stars are found towards Core B. The scenario that emerges from our analysis
is one where the two ammonia cores pre-date the arrival of the ionisation
front. Since its arrival the over-pressure of the ionised gas at the surface of
the cloud has driven shocks into the surface layers of the cloud. The
propagation of these shocks through Core A have triggered the formation of a
small cluster of massive stars, however, the shock front has not yet propagated
deeply enough into the cloud to have affected the evolution of Core B.