A multi-wavelength spatial and temporal analysis of solar high energy
electrons is conducted using the August 20, 2002 flare of an unusually flat
(gamma=1.8) hard X-ray spectrum. The flare is studied using RHESSI, Halpha,
radio, TRACE, and MDI observations with advanced methods and techniques never
previously applied in the solar flare context. A new method to account for
X-ray Compton backscattering in the photosphere (photospheric albedo) has been
used to deduce the primary X-ray flare spectra. The mean electron flux
distribution has been analysed using both forward fitting and model independent
inversion methods of spectral analysis. We show that the contribution of the
photospheric albedo to the photon spectrum modifies the calculated mean
electron flux distribution, mainly at energies below 100 keV. The positions of
the Halpha emission and hard X-ray sources with respect to the current-free
extrapolation of the MDI photospheric magnetic field and the characteristics of
the radio emission provide evidence of the closed geometry of the magnetic
field structure and the flare process in low altitude magnetic loops. In
agreement with the predictions of some solar flare models, the hard X-ray
sources are located on the external edges of the Halpha emission and show
chromospheric plasma heated by the non-thermal electrons. The fast changes of
Halpha intensities are located not only inside the hard X-ray sources, as
expected if they are the signatures of the chromospheric response to the
electron bombardment, but also away from them.