The electron number-parity of the ground state of a semiconductor narowire
proximity-coupled to a bulk superconductor can alternate between the quantised
values $\pm 1$ if parameters such as the wire length $L$, the chemical
potential $\mu$ or the magnetic field $B$ are varied inside the topological
superconductor phase. % The parity jumps, which may be interpreted as changes
in the occupancy of the fermion state formed from the pair of Majorana modes at
opposite ends of the wire, are accompanied by jumps $\delta N$ in the charge of
the nanowire, whose values decrease exponentially with the wire length. % We
study theoretically the dependence of $\delta N$ on system parameters, and
compare the locations in the $\mu$-$B$ plane of parity jumps when the nanowire
is or is not proximity-coupled to a bulk superconductor. % We show that,
despite the fact that the wave functions of the Majorana modes are localised
near the two ends of the wire, the charge-density jumps have spatial
distributions that are essentially uniform along the wire length, being
proportional to the product of the two Majorana wave functions. % We explain
how charge measurements, say by an external single-electron transistor, could
reveal these effects. % Whereas existing experimental methods require direct
contact to the wire for tunneling measurements, charge sensing avoids this
issue and provides an orthogonal measurement to confirm recent experimental
developments. % Furthermore, by comparing density of states measurements which
show Majorana features at the wire ends with the uniformly-distributed charge
measurements, one can rule out alternative explanations for earlier results. %
We shed light on a new parameter regime for these wire-superconductor hybrid
systems, and propose a related experiment to measure spin density.