We give a brief review of recent developments in the study of the large-scale
velocity field of galaxies since the international workshop on Cosmic Flows
held in July 1999 in Victoria, B.C. Peculiar velocities (PVs) yield a tight and
unique constraint on cosmological characteristics, independent of Lambda and
biasing, such as the cosmological matter density parameter Omega_m and the
convergence of bulk flows on large scales. Significant progress towards
incorporating non-linear dynamics and improvements of velocity field
reconstruction techniques have led to a rigorous control of errors and much
refined cosmic flow analyses. Current investigations favor low-amplitude (< 250
km/s) bulk flows on the largest scales (< ~100 Mpc/h) probed reliably by
existing redshift-distance surveys, consistent with favored LambdaCDM
cosmogonies. Tidal field analyses also suggest that the Shapley Concentration,
located behind the Great Attractor (GA), might play an important dynamical
role, even at the Local Group. Low-amplitude density fluctuations on very large
scales generate the overall large-scale streaming motions while massive
attractors like the GA, and Perseus-Pisces account for smaller scale motions
which are superposed on the large-scale flow. Likelihood analyses of galaxy
PVs, in the framework of flat CDM cosmology, now provide tight constraints of
Omega_m = 0.35 +/- 0.05. A four-fold size increase of our data base is expected
in the next 4-5 years with the completion of next generation FP/TF surveys and
automated supernovae searches within 20,000 km/s.