The random spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain is considered to be the paradigm of
disordered systems whose low energy universal behavior is controlled by an
infinite randomness fixed point where all spins are bound to randomly located
singlets, if the interactions are antiferromagnetic and short ranged
\cite{dasguptama,fisher}. In real materials the interaction between local
magnetic moments is longer ranged. Thus, it is an important open question of
practical importance, if the strong disorder fixed point becomes destabilized,
and a delocalization transition to extended spin excitations can be induced by
increasing the range of the interaction. Here, we use a generalised real-space
renormalization group technique to study the anisotropic Heisenberg model with
long-range interactions, decaying with a power $\alpha$, which are generated by
placing spins at random positions along the chain. This method permits a
large-scale finite-size analysis. We analyze the full distribution function of
the first excitation energy gap from the ground state and find only at large
$\alpha$ agreement with the infinite randomness fixed point. With decreasing
$\alpha$ we first observe a crossover to a phase where spin excitations are
still localized but the distribution changes to Poissonian. At $\alpha <
\alpha_c$ it follows the Wigner surmise, which signals level repulsion between
extended states and continues to increase as $\alpha$ is further lowered. In
between we find a critical $\alpha_c$ where the full distribution coincides
with a critical function. Thereby, we find strong evidence for the existence of
a many body localization transition in disordered antiferromagnetic spin chains
with longer than nearest neighbor interactions.