Over the past few years a major effort has been put into the exploration of
potential sites for the deployment of submillimetre astronomical facilities.
Amongst the most important sites are Dome C and Dome A on the Antarctic
Plateau, and the Chajnantor area in Chile. In this context, we report on
measurements of the sky opacity at 200 um over a period of three years at the
French-Italian station, Concordia, at Dome C, Antarctica. We also present some
solutions to the challenges of operating in the harsh polar environ- ment. Dome
C offers exceptional conditions in terms of absolute atmospheric transmission
and stability for submillimetre astron- omy. Over the austral winter the PWV
exhibits long periods during which it is stable and at a very low level (0.1 to
0.3 mm). Higher values (0.2 to 0.8 mm) of PWV are observed during the short
summer period. Based on observations over three years, a transmission of around
50% at 350 um is achieved for 75% of the time. The 200-um window opens with a
typical transmission of 10% to 15% for 25% of the time. Dome C is one of the
best accessible sites on Earth for submillimetre astronomy. Observations at 350
or 450 {\mu}m are possible all year round, and the 200-um window opens long
enough and with a sufficient transparency to be useful. Although the polar
environment severely constrains hardware design, a permanent observatory with
appropriate technical capabilities is feasible. Because of the very good
astronomical conditions, high angular resolution and time series (multi-year)
observations at Dome C with a medium size single dish telescope would enable
unique studies to be conducted, some of which are not otherwise feasible even
from space.