Monte Carlo simulation on the crystallization of double crystalline diblock
copolymer unravels an intrinsic relationship between block asymmetry and
crystallization behaviour. We model crystalline A-B diblock copolymer, wherein
the melting temperature of A-block is higher than that of the B-block. We
explore the composition dependent crystallization behaviour by varying the
relative block length with weak and strong segregation strength between the
blocks. In weak segregation limit, we observe that with increasing the
composition of B-block, its crystallization temperature increases accompanying
with higher crystallinity. In contrast, A-block crystallizes at a relatively
low temperature along with the formation of thicker and larger crystallites
with the increase in B-block composition. We attribute this non-intuitive
crystallization trend to the dilution effect imposed by B-block. When the
composition of the B-block is high enough, it acts like a 'solvent' during the
crystallization of A-block. A-block segments are more mobile and hence less
facile to crystallize, resulting depression in crystallization temperature with
the formation of thicker crystals. At strong segregation limit, crystallization
and morphological development are governed by the confinement effect, rather
than block asymmetry. Isothermal crystallization reveals that the
crystallization follows a homogeneous nucleation mechanism with the formation
of two dimensional crystals. Two-step, compared to one-step isothermal
crystallization leads to the formation of thicker crystals of A-block due to
the dilution effect of the B-block.