We present a study of the structure of the high mass star-forming region
RCW~38 and the spatial distribution of its young stellar population. Spitzer
IRAC photometry 3-8um are combined with 2MASS near-IR data to identify young
stellar objects by IR-excess emission from their circumstellar material.
Chandra X-ray data are used to identify class III pre-main sequence stars
lacking circumstellar material. We identify 624 YSOs: 23 class 0/I and 90 flat
spectrum protostars, 437 Class II stars, and 74 Class III stars. We also
identify 29 (27 new) O star candidates over the IRAC field. Seventy-two stars
exhibit IR-variability, including seven class 0/I and 12 flat spectrum YSOs. A
further 177 tentative candidates are identified by their location in the IRAC
[3.6] vs. [3.6]-[5.8] cmd. We find strong evidence of subclustering in the
region. Three subclusters were identified surrounding the central cluster, with
massive and variable stars in each subcluster. The central region shows
evidence of distinct spatial distributions of the protostars and pre-main
sequence stars. A previously detected IR cluster, DB2001_Obj36, has been
established as a subcluster of RCW 38. This suggests that star formation in RCW
38 occurs over a more extended area than previously thought. The gas to dust
ratio is examined using the X-ray derived hydrogen column density, N_H and the
K-band extinction, and found to be consistent with the diffuse ISM, in contrast
with Serpens & NGC1333. We posit that the high photoionising flux of massive
stars in RCW 38 affects the agglomeration of the dust grains.