We study Quintessence cosmologies in the context of scalar-tensor theories of
gravity, where a scalar field $\phi$, assumed to provide most of the cosmic
energy density today, is non-minimally coupled to the Ricci curvature scalar
$R$. Such `Extended Quintessence' cosmologies have the appealing feature that
the same field causing the time (and space) variation of the cosmological
constant is the source of a varying Newton's constant \`a la
Jordan-Brans-Dicke. We investigate here two classes of models, where the
gravitational sector of the Lagrangian is $F(\phi)R$ with $F(\phi
)=\xi\phi^{2}$ (Induced Gravity, IG) and $F(\phi)=1+\xi\phi^{2}$ (Non-Minimal
Coupling, NMC). As a first application of this idea we consider a specific
model, where the Quintessence field, $\phi$, obeying the simplest inverse power
potential, has $\Omega_{\phi}=0.6$ today, in the context of the Cold Dark
Matter scenario, with scale-invariant adiabatic initial perturbations. We find
that, if $\xi\lesssim 5\times 10^{-4}$ for IG and $\xi\lesssim 5\times
10^{-3}(\sqrt{G}\phi_{0})^{-1}$ for NMC ($\phi_{0}$ is the present Quintessence
value) our Quintessence field satisfies the existing solar system experimental
constraints. Using linear perturbation theory we then obtain the polarization
and temperature anisotropy spectra of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) as
well as the matter power-spectrum. The perturbation behavior possesses
distinctive features, that we name `QR-effects', regarding acoustic peak
location and height, late time integrated Sachs-Wolfe effect, as well as
turnover and amplitude in the matter power spectrum. These features could be
detected in the upcoming observations on CMB and large-scale structure.