We construct updated solar models with different sets of solar abundances,
including the most recent determinations by Asplund et al. (2009). The latter
work predicts a larger ($\sim 10%$) solar metallicity compared to previous
measurements by the same contributors but significantly lower ($\sim 25%$) than the
recommended value from a decade ago by Grevesse & Sauval (1998). We compare the
results of our models with determinations of the solar structure inferred
through helioseismology measurements. The model that uses the most recent solar
abundance determinations predicts the base of the solar convective envelope to
be located at $R_{\rm CZ}= 0.724{\rm R_\odot}$ and a surface helium mass
fraction of $Y_{\rm surf}=0.231$. These results are in conflict with
helioseismology data ($R_{\rm CZ}= 0.713\pm0.001{\rm R_\odot}$ and $Y_{\rm
surf}=0.2485\pm0.0035$) at 5$-\sigma$ and 11$-\sigma$ levels respectively.
Using the new solar abundances, we calculate the magnitude by which radiative
opacities should be modified in order to restore agreement with
helioseismology. We find that a maximum change of $\sim 15%$ at the base of the
convective zone is required with a smooth decrease towards the core, where the
change needed is $\sim 5%$. The required change at the base of the convective
envelope is about half the value estimated previously. We also present the
solar neutrino fluxes predicted by the new models. The most important changes
brought about by the new solar abundances are the increase by $\sim 10%$ in the
predicted $^{13}$N and $^{15}$O fluxes that arise mostly due to the increase in
the C and N abundances in the newly determined solar composition.