We investigate how helioseismic waves that originate from effective point
sources interact with a sunspot. These waves are reconstructed from observed
stochastic wavefields on the Sun by cross-correlating photospheric
Doppler-velocity signals. We select the wave sources at different locations
relative to the sunspot, and investigate the p- and f-mode waves separately.
The results reveal a complicated picture of waveform perturbations caused by
the wave interaction with the sunspot. In particular, it is found that for
waves originating from outside of the sunspot, p-mode waves travel across the
sunspot with a small amplitude reduction and slightly higher speed, and wave
amplitude and phase get mostly restored to the quiet-Sun values after passing
the sunspot. The f-mode wave experiences some amplitude reduction passing
through the sunspot, and the reduced amplitude is not recovered after that. The
wave-propagation speed does not change before encountering the sunspot and
inside the sunspot, but the wavefront becomes faster than the reference wave
after passing through the sunspot. For waves originating from inside the
sunspot umbra, both f- and p-mode waves show significant amplitude reductions
and faster speed during all courses of propagation. A comparison of positive
and negative time lags of cross-correlation functions shows an apparent
asymmetry in the waveform changes for both the f- and p-mode waves. We suggest
that the waveform variations of the helioseismic waves interacting with a
sunspot found in this article can be used for developing a method of waveform
heliotomography, similar to the waveform tomography of the Earth.