In the last three decades, about 50 radio supernovae have been detected as a
result of targeted searches of optically discovered supernovae in the local
universe. Despite this relatively small number some diversity among them has
already been identified which is an indication of the underlying richness of
radio supernovae waiting to be discovered. For example, comparison of star
formation and supernova discovery rate imply that as many as half of the
supernovae remain undetected in the traditional optical searches, either
because of intrinsic dimness or due to dust obscuration. This has far reaching
consequences to the models of stellar and galaxy evolution. A radio sky survey
would be ideal to uncover larger supernova population. Transient radio sky
would benefit significantly from such a survey. With the advent of advanced
gravitational wave detectors a new window is set to open on the local Universe.
Localization of these gravitational detectors is poor to identify
electromagnetic counterparts of the gravitational wave sources. However, the
longer lasting radio emission accompanied in these sources could be effectively
identified in a radio sky survey. We advocate a medium area ($\approx$ a few
thousand $\rm deg^{2}$) radio sky survey at C-band. Alternatively, a survey at
S-band has advantage of larger sky coverage without serious loss of the science
case as presented here. Understanding the background in radio sky will be of
paramount importance for the upcoming sensitive radio facilities including the
Square Kilometer Array.