Circumstellar disks surrounding young stars are known to be the birthplaces
of planets, and the innermost astronomical unit is of particular interest. We
present new long-baseline spectro-interferometric observations of the HerbigAe
star, HR5999, obtained in the H and K bands with the AMBER instrument at the
VLTI, and aim to produce near-infrared images at the sub-AU spatial scale. We
spatially resolve the circumstellar material and reconstruct images using the
MiRA algorithm. In addition, we interpret the interferometric observations
using models that assume that the near-infrared excess is dominated by the
emission of a circumstellar disk. We compare the images reconstructed from the
VLTI measurements to images obtained using simulated model data. The K-band
image reveals three main elements: a ring-like feature located at ~0.65 AU, a
low surface brightness region inside, and a central spot. At the maximum
angular resolution of our observations (1.3 mas), the ring is resolved while
the central spot is only marginally resolved, preventing us from revealing the
exact morphology of the circumstellar environment. We suggest that the ring
traces silicate condensation, i.e., an opacity change, in a circumstellar disk
around HR 5999. We build a model that includes a ring at the silicate
sublimation radius and an inner disk of low surface brightness responsible for
a large amount of the near-infrared continuum emission. The model successfully
fits the SED, visibilities, and closure phases, and provides evidence of a low
surface brightness region inside the silicate sublimation radius. This study
provides additional evidence that in HerbigAe stars, there is material in a low
surface brightness region, probably a low optical depth region, located inside
the silicate sublimation radius and of unknown nature.