4C +21.35 is a flat-spectrum-radio-quasar-type blazar, in which the rapid
variability of very high energy (VHE, $E_{\gamma}\gtrsim 100$\,GeV) emission as
short as $\sim$ 10 minutes was observed by MAGIC Cherenkov telescopes, and the
VHE spectrum extends up to at least 400\,GeV. In this paper, by using a flat
broad-line region (BLR) structure, we study the location and properties of
$\gamma$-ray emitting region of 4C +21.35 under the constraints of
multiwavelength data. We fit three quasi-simultaneous spectral energy
distributions (SEDs) using homogeneous one-zone leptonic model, in which the
flat BLR with the aperture angle of $\alpha=25^{\circ}$ and a spherically
symmetric hot dusty torus with the temperature of $T_{\rm sub}=1200$\,K, are
assumed. The results show that the jet structure of 4C +21.35 is nearly conical
with a half-opening angle of $\theta_{\rm j}\simeq 0.29^{\circ}-0.6^{\circ}$.
Furthermore, the emitting region is located within the BLR clouds and
approaches to outer radius of the BLR during the flaring states, while it is
well beyond the dusty torus in quiescent state. The quiescent high-energy
emission is dominated by synchrotron self-Compton (SSC) process, the
high-energy emission during the flaring periods is dominated by Compton
scattering of BLR and dusty torus photons with the value of Compton-dominance
parameter is about 30. Moreover, the fit to optical/ultraviolet data provides a
further support that the central black hole (BH) mass of 4C +21.35 is $6\times
10^{8}$\,$M_{\odot}$.