We present the first result of VLBI observations of the blueshifted water
maser emission from the type 2 Seyfert galaxy NGC5793, which we combine with
new and previous VLBI observations of continuum emission at 1.7, 5.0, 8.4, 15,
and 22 GHz. Maser emission was detected earlier in single-dish observations and
found to have both red- and blueshifted features relative to the systemic
velocity. We could image only the blueshifted emission, which is located 3.6 pc
southwest of the 22 GHz continuum peak. The blueshifted emission was found to
originate in two clusters that are separated by 0.7 milliarcsecond (0.16 pc).
No compact continuum emission was found within 3.6 pc of the maser spot. A
compact continuum source showing a marginally inverted spectrum between 1.7 and
5.0 GHz was found 4.2 pc southwest of the maser position. The spectral turnover
might be due to synchrotron self-absorption caused by a shock in the jet owing
to collision with dense gas, or it might be due to free-free absorption in an
ionized screen possibly the inner part of a disk, foreground to the jet.
  The water maser may be part of a maser disk. If so, it would be rotating in
the opposite sense to the highly inclined galactic disk observed in CO
emission. We estimate a binding mass within 1 pc of the presumed nucleus to be
on the order of 10^7 Msun. Alternatively, the maser emission could result from
the amplification of a radio jet by foreground circumnuclear molecular gas. In
this case, the high blueshift of the maser emission might mean that the masing
region is moving outward away from the molecular gas surrounding an active
nucleus.