We present simultaneous observations of three recurring jets in EUV and soft
X-ray (SXR), which occurred in an active region on 2007 June 5. By comparing
their morphological and kinematic characteristics in these two different
wavelengths, we found that EUV and SXR jets had similar locations, directions,
sizes and velocities. We also analyzed their spectral properties by using six
spectral lines from the EUV Imaging Spectrometer (EIS) on board Hinode, and
found that these jets had temperatures from 0.05 to 2.0 MK and maximum electron
densities from 6.6$\times10^{9}$ to 3.4$\times10^{10}$ cm$^{-3}$. For each jet,
an elongated blue-shifted component and a red-shifted component at the jet base
were simultaneously observed in Fe{\sc xii} $\lambda$195 and He{\sc ii}
$\lambda$256 lines. The three jets had maximum Doppler velocities from 25 to
121 km s$^{-1}$ in Fe{\sc xii} $\lambda$195 line and from 115 to 232 km s
$^{-1}$ in He{\sc ii} $\lambda$256 line. They had maximum non-thermal
velocities from 98 to 181 km s$^{-1}$ in Fe{\sc xii} $\lambda$195 line and from
196 to 399 km s$^{-1}$ in He{\sc ii} $\lambda$256 line. We also examined the
relationship between averaged Doppler velocities and maximum ionization
temperatures of these three jets, and found that averaged Doppler velocities
decreased with the increase of maximum ionization temperatures. In the
photosphere, magnetic flux emergences and cancellations continuously took place
at the jet base. These observational results were consistent with the magnetic
reconnection jet model that magnetic reconnection between emerging magnetic
flux and ambient magnetic field occurred in the lower atmosphere.