BL Lacs are an enigmatic class of active galactic nuclei (AGNs),
characterized by the non-thermal continuum typically attributed to synchrotron
and inverse Compton emission. Depending on the frequency location of the maxima
of these components, they are subdivided into three subclasses LBLs, IBLs, and
HBLs. We present the results of a set of observations of eight BL Lac objects
of LBL and IBL type performed by the XRT and UVOT detectors onboard the Swift
satellite between January 2005 and November 2006. We are mainly interested in
measuring the spectral parameters, and particularly the steepness between the
UV and the X-ray band, useful for determining the classification of these
sources. We compare the behavior of these sources with previous XMM-Newton,
BeppoSAX obser- vations and with historical data in the X-ray and in the
optical band. We are also interested in classifying the sources in our sample
on the basis of the observations and comparing them with their classification
presented in literature. We performed X-ray spectral analysis of observed BL
Lac objects using a simple powerlaw and in a few cases the log-parabolic model.
We also combined the UV emission with the low energy X-ray data to We used
observational data to classify sources in our sample and derived parameters of
their spectral energy distribution. We found that for the IBLs X-rays low
states show features of the high energy component, usually interpreted as due
to inverse Compton emission. Sources in our sample exhibit a range of temporal
UV and X-ray behaviors, some objects having clear and neat correlated UV and
X-ray variations (e.g. ON231) and other objects showing no clear (e.g. AO
0235+164) UV and X-ray correlation. Finally, we also note that our estimates of
spectral curvature are in the range of that measured for the HBLs.