We present a study of the stellar populations of galaxies in the cluster
RXJ0152.7-1357 at a redshift of 0.83. The study is based on new high S/N
spectroscopy of 29 cluster members covering the wavelength range 5000-10000A as
well as r'i'z' photometry of the cluster. The scaling relations between
velocity dispersions, luminosities and Balmer line strengths appear to be in
agreement with pure passive evolution of the stellar populations with a
formation redshift z=4. However, the strengths of the D4000 indices and the
metal indices do not support this interpretation. Compared to z=0, the metal
indices (C4668, Fe4383, CN3883, G4300 and CN2) show that at least half of the
non-emission line galaxies in RXJ0152.7-1357 have [alpha/Fe] of 0.2 dex higher,
and about half of the galaxies have significantly lower metal content. The
differences in stellar populations of the galaxies are associated with the
location of the galaxies relative to the X-ray emission. The galaxies with weak
C4668 and G4300, as well as galaxies with weak [OII] emission, are located in
areas of low X-ray luminosity. It is possible that these galaxies are
experiencing the effect of the cluster merger taking place in RXJ0152.7-1357 as
(short) episodes of star formation, while the galaxies in the cores of the
X-ray sub-clumps are unaffected by the merger. The spectroscopy of the
RXJ0152.7-1357 galaxies shows for the first time galaxies in a rich cluster at
intermediate redshift that cannot evolve passively into the present day galaxy
population in rich clusters. Additional physical processes may be at work and
we speculate that merging with infalling (disk) galaxies in which stars have
formed over an extended period might produce the required reduction in
[alpha/Fe]. (abridged)