We present 230 realizations of a numerical model of planet formation in
systems without gas giants. These represent a scenario in which protoplanets
grow in a region of a circumstellar disk where water ice condenses (the "ice
line''), but fail to accrete massive gas envelopes before the gaseous disk is
dispersed. Each simulation consists of a small number of gravitationally
interacting oligarchs and a much larger number of small bodies that represent
the natal disk of planetesimals. We investigate systems with varying initial
number of oligarchs, oligarch spacing, location of the ice line, total mass in
the ice line, and oligarch mean density. Systems become chaotic in ~1 Myr but
settle into stable configurations in 10-100 Myr. We find: (1) runs consistently
produce a 5-9 Earth mass planet at a semimajor axis of 0.25-0.6 times the
position of the ice line, (2) the distribution of planets' orbital
eccentricities is distinct from, and skewed toward lower values than the
observed distribution of (giant) exoplanet orbits, (3) inner systems of two
dominant planets (e.g., Earth and Venus) are not stable or do not form because
of the gravitational influence of the innermost icy planet. The planets
predicted by our model are unlikely to be detected by current Doppler
observations. Microlensing is currently sensitive to the most massive planets
found in our simulations. A scenario where up to 60% of stars host systems such
as those we simulate is consistent with all the available data. We predict
that, if this scenario holds, the NASA Kepler spacecraft will detect about 120
planets by two or more transits over the course of its 3.5 yr mission. Future
microlensing surveys will detect ~130 analogs over a 5 yr survey. Finally, the
Space Interferometry Mission (SIM-Lite) should be capable of detecting 96% of
the innermost icy planets over the course of a 5 yr mission.