We use deep Chandra imaging and an extensive optical spectroscopy campaign on
the Keck 10-m telescopes to study the properties of X-ray point sources in five
large-scale structures at redshifts of z ~ 0.7-0.9. We first study X-ray point
sources using the statistical measure of cumulative source counts, finding that
the measured overdensities are consistent with previous results, but we
recommend caution in overestimating the precision of the technique. Optical
spectroscopy of objects matched to X-ray point sources confirms a total of 27
AGN within the five structures, and we find that their host galaxies tend to be
located away from dense cluster cores. More than 36% of host galaxies are
located in the `green valley', which suggests they are a transitional
population. Based on analysis of OII and Hd line strengths, the average
spectral properties of the AGN host galaxies in all structures indicate either
on-going star formation or a starburst within ~ 1 Gyr, and the host galaxies
are younger than the average galaxy in the parent population. These results
indicate a clear connection between starburst and nuclear activity. We use
composite spectra of the spectroscopically confirmed members in each structure
to separate them based on a measure of the overall evolutionary state of their
constituent galaxies. We define structures as having more evolved populations
if their average galaxy has lower EW(OII) and EW(Hd). The AGN in the more
evolved structures have lower rest-frame 0.5-8 keV X-ray luminosities (all
below 10^43.3 erg s^-1) and longer times since a starburst than those in the
less evolved structures, suggesting that the peak of both star formation and
AGN activity has occurred at earlier times. With the wide range of evolutionary
states and timeframes in the structures, we use our results to analyze the
evolution of X-ray AGN and evaluate potential triggering mechanisms.