Background: MicroRNAs, post-transcriptional repressors of gene expression,
play a pivotal role in gene regulatory networks. They are involved in core
cellular processes and their dysregulation is associated to a broad range of
human diseases. This paper focus on a minimal microRNA-mediated regulatory
circuit, in which a protein-coding gene (host gene) is targeted by a microRNA
located inside one of its introns. Results: Autoregulation via intronic
microRNAs is widespread in the human regulatory network, as confirmed by our
bioinformatic analysis, and can perform several regulatory tasks despite its
simple topology. Our analysis, based on analytical calculations and
simulations, indicates that this circuitry alters the dynamics of the host gene
expression, can induce complex responses implementing adaptation and Weber's
law, and efficiently filters fluctuations propagating from the upstream network
to the host gene. A fine-tuning of the circuit parameters can optimize each of
these functions. Interestingly, they are all related to gene expression
homeostasis, in agreement with the increasing evidence suggesting a role of
microRNA regulation in conferring robustness to biological processes. In
addition to model analysis, we present a list of bioinformatically predicted
candidate circuits in human for future experimental tests. Conclusions: The
results presented here suggest a potentially relevant functional role for
negative self-regulation via intronic microRNAs, in particular as a homeostatic
control mechanism of gene expression. Moreover, the map of circuit functions in
terms of experimentally measurable parameters, resulting from our analysis, can
be a useful guideline for possible applications in synthetic biology.