We test and compare a number of existing models predicting the location of
magnetic reconnection at Earth's dayside magnetopause for various solar wind
conditions. We employ robust image processing techniques to determine the
locations where each model predicts reconnection to occur. The predictions are
then compared to the magnetic separators, the magnetic field lines separating
different magnetic topologies. The predictions are tested in distinct
high-resolution simulations with interplanetary magnetic field (IMF) clock
angles ranging from 30 to 165 degrees in global magnetohydrodynamic simulations
using the three-dimensional Block-Adaptive Tree Solarwind Roe-type Upwind
Scheme (BATS-R-US) code with a uniform resistivity, although the described
techniques can be generally applied to any self-consistent magnetosphere code.
Additional simulations are carried out to test location model dependence on IMF
strength and dipole tilt. We find that most of the models match large portions
of the magnetic separators when the IMF has a southward component, with the
models saying reconnection occurs where the local reconnection rate and
reconnection outflow speed are maximized performing best. When the IMF has a
northward component, none of the models tested faithfully map the entire
magnetic separator, but the maximum magnetic shear model is the best at mapping
the separator in the cusp region where reconnection has been observed.
Predictions for some models with northward IMF orientations improve after
accounting for plasma flow shear parallel to the reconnecting components of the
magnetic fields. Implications for observations are discussed.