Diffusion of impurity atoms depends on the sublattices occupied, active
diffusion mechanisms, and jump frequencies to neighboring sites. The method of
perturbed angular correlation of gamma rays (PAC) has been applied over the
past decade to study impurity diffusion through measurement of nuclear
quadrupole interactions (NQI) at nuclei of 111In/Cd probe atoms. Extensive
measurements have been made on highly-ordered compounds having the L12 crystal
structure, including In3R, Sn3R, Ga3R, Al3R and Pd3R phases (R= rare-earth
element). Measurements in thermal equilibrium at high temperature served to
determine lattice locations of 111In parent probe-atoms, through characteristic
NQIs, and to measure diffusional jump-frequencies of 111Cd daughter
probe-atoms, through relaxation of the NQI. This paper summarizes results of
the jump-frequency measurements and relates them to the conventional
diffusivity. ... A change in diffusion mechanism was proposed in 2009 to
explain jump-frequency systematics for In3R phases. An alternative explanation
is proposed in the present paper based on site-preferences of 111Cd daughter
probes newly observed along the parallel Pd3R series. The diffusivity can be
expressed as the product of a jump-frequency such as measured in these studies
and a correlation factor for diffusion that depends on the diffusion mechanism.
The correlation factor can be modeled for the L12 structure and diffusion
sublattice of interest using a five-frequency model originally proposed for
metals. Although the correlation factor is an essential parameter for the
diffusion of impurities, it has never been measured. It is suggested that
values of the correlation factor can be determined feasibly by combining
results of jump-frequency measurements such as the present ones with
diffusivity measurements made for the same host-impurity systems.