We investigate the effect of spin-orbit and spin-spin couplings on the
estimation of parameters for inspiralling compact binaries of massive black
holes, and for neutron stars inspiralling into intermediate-mass black holes,
using hypothetical data from the proposed Laser Interferometer Space Antenna
(LISA). We work both in Einstein's theory and in alternative theories of
gravity of the scalar-tensor and massive-graviton types. We restrict the
analysis to non-precessing spinning binaries, i.e. to cases where the spins are
aligned normal to the orbital plane. We find that the accuracy with which
intrinsic binary parameters such as chirp mass and reduced mass can be
estimated within general relativity is degraded by between one and two orders
of magnitude. We find that the bound on the coupling parameter omega_BD of
scalar-tensor gravity is significantly reduced by the presence of spin
couplings, while the reduction in the graviton-mass bound is milder. Using fast
Monte-Carlo simulations of 10^4 binaries, we show that inclusion of spin terms
in massive black-hole binaries has little effect on the angular resolution or
on distance determination accuracy. For stellar mass inspirals into
intermediate-mass black holes, the angular resolution and the distance are
determined only poorly, in all cases considered. We also show that, if LISA's
low-frequency noise sensitivity can be extrapolated from 10^-4 Hz to as low as
10^-5 Hz, the accuracy of determining both extrinsic parameters (distance, sky
location) and intrinsic parameters (chirp mass, reduced mass) of massive
binaries may be greatly improved.