Understanding the spectral and photometric variability of the Earth and the
rest of the solar system planets has become of the utmost importance for the
future characterization of rocky exoplanets. As this is not only interesting at
present times but also along the planetary evolution, we studied the effect
that the evolution of microbial mats and plants over land has had on the way
our planet looks from afar. As life evolved, continental surfaces changed
gradually and non- uniformly from deserts through microbial mats to land
plants, modifying the reflective properties of the ground and most probably the
distribution of moisture and cloudiness. Here, we used a radiative transfer
model of the Earth, together with geological paleo-records of the continental
distribution and a reconstructed cloud distribution, to simulate the visible
and near-IR radiation reflected by our planet as a function of Earth's
rotation. We found that the evolution from deserts to microbial mats and to
land plants produces detectable changes in the globally-averaged Earth's
reflectance. The variability of each surface type is located in different bands
and can induce reflectance changes of up to 40% in period of hours. We conclude
that using photometric observations of an Earth- like planet at different
photometric bands, it would be possible to discriminate between different
surface types. While recent literature proposes the red edge feature of
vegetation near 0.7 {\mu}m as a signature for land plants, observations in
near-IR bands can be equally or even better suited for this purpose.