(ABRIDGED) We present multi-epoch Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA)
observations of V773 Tau A, the 51-day binary subsystem in the multiple young
stellar system V773 Tau. Combined with previous interferometric and radial
velocity measurements, these new data enable us to improve the characterization
of the physical orbit of the A subsystem. In particular, we infer updated
dynamical masses for the primary and the secondary components of 1.55 pm 0.11
Msun, and 1.293 pm 0.068 Msun, respectively, and an updated orbital parallax
distance to the system of 135.7 pm 3.2 pc, all consistent with previous
estimates. Using the improved orbit, we can calculate the absolute coordinates
of the barycenter of V773 Tau A at each epoch of our VLBA observations, and fit
for its trigonometric parallax and proper motion. This provides a direct
measurement of the distance to the system almost entirely independent of the
orbit modeling. The best fit yields a distance of 129.9 pm 3.2 pc, in good
agreement (i.e. within 1 sigma) with the distance estimate based on the orbital
fit. Taking the mean value of the orbital and trigonometric parallaxes, we
conclude that V773 Tau is located at d =132.8 pm 2.3 pc. The accuracy of this
determination is nearly one order of magnitude better than that of previous
estimates. In projection, V773 Tau and two other young stars (Hubble 4 and HDE
283572) recently observed with the VLBA are located toward the dark cloud Lynds
1495, in the central region of Taurus. These three stars appear to have similar
trigonometric parallaxes, radial velocities, and proper motions, and we argue
that the weighted mean and dispersion of their distances (d = 131.4 pc and
sigma_d = 2.4 pc) provide a good estimate of the distance to and depth of Lynds
1495 and its associated stellar population.