The Ziff-Gulari-Barshad (ZGB) model, a simplified description of the
oxidation of carbon monoxide (CO) on a catalyst surface, is widely used to
study properties of nonequilibrium phase transitions. In particular, it
exhibits a nonequilibrium, discontinuous transition between a reactive and a CO
poisoned phase. If one allows a nonzero rate of CO desorption ($k$), the line
of phase transitions terminates at a critical point ($k_{c}$). In this work,
instead of restricting the CO and atomic oxygen (O) to react to form carbon
dioxide (CO$_{2}$) only when they are adsorbed in close proximity, we consider
a modified model that includes an adjustable probability for adsorbed CO and O
atoms located far apart on the lattice to react. We employ large-scale Monte
Carlo simulations for system sizes up to 240$\times$240 lattice sites, using
the crossing of fourth-order cumulants to study the critical properties of this
system. We find that the nonequilibrium critical point changes from the
two-dimensional Ising universality class to the mean-field universality class
upon introducing even a weak long-range reactivity mechanism. This conclusion
is supported by measurements of cumulant fixed-point values, cluster
percolation probabilities, correlation-length finite-size scaling properties,
and the critical exponent ratio $\beta / \nu$. The observed behavior is
consistent with that of the \emph{equilibrium} Ising ferromagnet with
additional weak long-range interactions [T. Nakada, P. A. Rikvold, T. Mori, M.
Nishino, and S. Miyashita, Phys. Rev. B 84, 054433 (2011)]. The large system
sizes and the use of fourth-order cumulants also enable determination with
improved accuracy of the critical point of the original ZGB model with CO
desorption.