Deep exposures of the metal-rich globular clusters NGC6496 and NGC6352 were
obtained with the WFPC2 camera on board the HST through the F606W and F814W
filters. The resulting colour-magnitude diagrams reach down to absolute
magnitude M_814~10-10.5, approximately 5 magnitudes below the main sequence
(MS) turn-off. The MS of the two clusters are sharp and well defined and their
fiducial lines overlap almost exactly throughout this range. Their colour is,
however, more than 0.1 mag redder than the MS fiducial line of the prototype
metal-rich globular cluster 47 Tuc, after proper correction for the relative
distances and reddening. This provides solid empirical evidence of a higher
metal content, which is not surprising if these objects belong indeed to the
bulge as their present location suggests. A good fit to the upper part of the
MS of both clusters is obtained with a 10 Gyr-old theoretical isochrone from
Baraffe et al. (1998) for a metallicity of [M/H]=-0.5, but at lower luminosity
all models depart considerably from the observations, probably because of a
deficiency in the treatment of the TiO opacity. The luminosity functions
obtained from the observed CMD are rather similar to one another and show a
peak at M_814~9. The present day mass functions (PDMF) are derived down to
m~0.2 Msolar and are consistent with power-law indices alpha=0.7 for NGC6496
and alpha=0.6 for NGC6352. The PDMF of 47 Tuc is twice as steep in the same
mass range (alpha=1.4). We investigate the origin of this discrepancy and show
that it can be understood if the two clusters contain a considerably higher
fraction of primordial binaries amongst their MS population, similar to that
expected in the bulge. We briefly discuss the implications of this finding on
the process of star and binary formation and on the universality of the IMF.