We present SymPix, a special-purpose spherical grid optimized for efficient
sampling of rotationally invariant linear operators. This grid is conceptually
similar to the Gauss-Legendre (GL) grid, aligning sample points with
iso-latitude rings located on Legendre polynomial zeros. Unlike the GL grid,
however, the number of grid points per ring varies as a function of latitude,
avoiding expensive over-sampling near the poles and ensuring nearly equal sky
area per grid point. The ratio between the number of grid points in two
neighbouring rings is required to be a low-order rational number (3, 2, 1, 4/3,
5/4 or 6/5) to maintain a high degree of symmetries. Our main motivation for
this grid is to solve linear systems using multi-grid methods, and to construct
efficient preconditioners through pixel-space sampling of the linear operator
in question. The GL grid is not suitable for these purposes due to its massive
over-sampling near the poles, leading to nearly degenerate linear systems,
while HEALPix, another commonly used spherical grid, exhibits few symmetries,
and is therefore computationally inefficient for these purposes. As a benchmark
and representative example, we compute a preconditioner for a linear system
with both HEALPix and SymPix that involves the operator $D + B^T N^{-1} B$,
where $B$ and $D$ may be described as both local and rotationally invariant
operators, and $N$ is diagonal in pixel domain. For a bandwidth limit of
$\ell_\text{max}=3000$, we find that SymPix, due to its higher number of
internal symmetries, yields average speed-ups of 360 and 23 for $B^T N^{-1} B$
and $D$, respectively, relative to HEALPix.