In vivo measurements of the passive movements of biomolecules or vesicles in
cells consistently report ''anomalous diffusion'', where mean-squared
displacements scale as a power law of time with exponent $\alpha< 1$
(subdiffusion). While the detailed mechanisms causing such behaviors are not
always elucidated, movement hindrance by obstacles is often invoked. However,
our understanding of how hindered diffusion leads to subdiffusion is based on
diffusion amidst randomly-located \textit{immobile} obstacles. Here, we have
used Monte-Carlo simulations to investigate transient subdiffusion due to
\textit{mobile} obstacles with various modes of mobility. Our simulations
confirm that the anomalous regimes rapidly disappear when the obstacles move by
Brownian motion. By contrast, mobile obstacles with more confined
displacements, e.g. Orstein-Ulhenbeck motion, are shown to preserve
subdiffusive regimes. The mean-squared displacement of tracked protein displays
convincing power-laws with anomalous exponent $\alpha$ that varies with the
density of OU obstacles or the relaxation time-scale of the OU process. In
particular, some of the values we observed are significantly below the
universal value predicted for immobile obstacles in 2d. Therefore, our results
show that subdiffusion due to mobile obstacles with OU-type of motion may
account for the large variation range exhibited by experimental measurements in
living cells and may explain that some experimental estimates are below the
universal value predicted for immobile obstacles.