We study the Reynolds number scaling and the geometric self-similarity of a
gain-based, low-rank approximation to turbulent channel flows, determined by
the resolvent formulation of McKeon & Sharma (2010), in order to obtain a
description of the streamwise turbulence intensity from direct consideration of
the Navier-Stokes equations. Under this formulation, the velocity field is
decomposed into propagating waves (with single streamwise and spanwise
wavelengths and wave speed) whose wall-normal shapes are determined from the
principal singular function of the corresponding resolvent operator. Using the
accepted scalings of the mean velocity in wall-bounded turbulent flows, we
establish that the resolvent operator admits three classes of wave parameters
that induce universal behavior with Reynolds number on the low-rank model, and
which are consistent with scalings proposed throughout the wall turbulence
literature. In addition, it was shown that a necessary condition for
geometrically self-similar resolvent modes is the presence of a logarithmic
turbulent mean velocity. We identify the scalings that constitute hierarchies
of self-similar modes that are parameterized by the critical wall-normal
location where the speed of the mode equals the local turbulent mean velocity.
For the rank-1 model subject to broadband forcing, the integrated streamwise
energy density takes a universal form which is consistent with the dominant
near-wall turbulent motions. When the shape of the forcing is optimized to
enforce matching with results from direct numerical simulations at low
turbulent Reynolds numbers, further similarity appears. Representation of these
weight functions using similarity laws enables prediction of the Reynolds
number and wall-normal variations of the streamwise energy intensity at high
Reynolds numbers (${Re}_\tau \approx 10^3 - 10^{10}$).