In this thesis we investigate high throughput computational methods for
processing large quantities of data collected from synchrotrons and their
application to spectral analysis of powder diffraction data. We also present
the main product of this PhD programme, specifically a software called 'EasyDD'
developed by the contributor. This software was created to meet the increasing
demand on data processing and analysis capabilities as required by modern
detectors which produce huge quantities of data. Modern detectors coupled with
the high intensity X-ray sources available at synchrotrons have led to the
situation where datasets can be collected in ever shorter time scales and in
ever larger numbers. Such large volumes of datasets pose a data processing
bottleneck which augments with current and future instrument development.
EasyDD has achieved its objectives and made significant contributions to
scientific research. It can also be used as a model for more mature attempts in
the future. EasyDD is currently in use by a number of researchers in a number
of academic and research institutions to process high-energy diffraction data.
These include data collected by different techniques such as Energy Dispersive
Diffraction, Angle Dispersive Diffraction and Computer Aided Tomography. EasyDD
has already been used in a number of published studies, and is currently in use
by the High Energy X-Ray Imaging Technology project. The software was also used
by the contributor to process and analyse datasets collected from synchrotron
radiation facilities. In this regard, the thesis presents novel scientific
research involving the use of EasyDD to handle large diffraction datasets in
the study of alumina-supported metal oxide catalyst bodies. These data were
collected using Tomographic Energy Dispersive Diffraction Imaging and Computer
Aided Tomography techniques.