We present ground-based optical and Hubble Space Telescope optical and
near-IR observations of the short-hard GRB130603B at z=0.356, which demonstrate
the presence of excess near-IR emission matching the expected brightness and
color of an r-process powered transient (a "kilonova"). The early afterglow
fades rapidly with alpha<-2.6 at t~8-32 hr post-burst and has a spectral index
of beta=-1.5 (F_nu t^alpha*nu^beta), leading to an expected near-IR brightness
at the time of the first HST observation of m(F160W)>29.3 AB mag. Instead, the
detected source has m(F160W)=25.8+/-0.2 AB mag, corresponding to a rest-frame
absolute magnitude of M(J)=-15.2 mag. The upper limit in the HST optical
observations is m(F606W)>27.7 AB mag (3-sigma), indicating an unusually red
color of V-H>1.9 mag. Comparing the observed near-IR luminosity to theoretical
models of kilonovae produced by ejecta from the merger of an NS-NS or NS-BH
binary, we infer an ejecta mass of M_ej~0.03-0.08 Msun for v_ej=0.1-0.3c. The
inferred mass matches the expectations from numerical merger simulations. The
presence of a kilonova provides the strongest evidence to date that short GRBs
are produced by compact object mergers, and provides initial insight on the
ejected mass and the primary role that compact object merger may play in the
r-process. Equally important, it demonstrates that gravitational wave sources
detected by Advanced LIGO/Virgo will be accompanied by optical/near-IR
counterparts with unusually red colors, detectable by existing and upcoming
large wide-field facilities (e.g., Pan-STARRS, DECam, Subaru, LSST).