We discuss new Hubble Space Telescope spectroscopy of the radio-loud quasar,
3C 288.1. The data cover ~590 A to ~1610 A in the quasar rest frame. They
reveal a wealth of associated absorption lines (AALs) with no accompanying
Lyman-limit absorption. The metallic AALs range in ionization from C III and N
III to Ne VIII and Mg X. We use these data and photoionization models to derive
the following properties of the AAL gas: 1) There are multiple ionization zones
within the AAL region, spanning a factor of at least ~50 in ionization
parameter. 2) The overall ionization is consistent with the ``warm'' X-ray
continuum absorbers measured in Seyfert 1 nuclei and other QSOs. However, 3)
the column densities implied by the AALs in 3C 288.1 are too low to produce
significant bound-free absorption at any UV-X-ray wavelengths. Substantial
X-ray absorption would require yet another zone, having a much higher
ionization or a much lower velocity dispersion than the main AAL region. 4) The
total hydrogen column density in the AAL gas is log N_H (cm-2)= 20.2. 5) The
metallicity is roughly half solar. 6) The AALs have deconvolved widths of ~900
km/s and their centroids are consistent with no shift from the quasar systemic
velocity (conservatively within +/-1000 km/s). 7) There are no direct
indicators of the absorber's location in our data, but the high ionization and
high metallicity both suggest a close physical relationship to the quasar/host
galaxy environment. Finally, the UV continuum shape gives no indication of a
``blue bump'' at higher energies. There is a distinct break of unknown origin
at ~1030 A, and the decline toward higher energies (with spectral index alpha =
-1.73, for f_nu ~ nu^alpha) is even steeper than a single power-law
interpolation from 1030 A to soft X-rays.