We present 1.1 mm observations of the dust continuum emission from the MBM12
high-latitude molecular cloud observed with the Astronomical Thermal Emission
Camera (AzTEC) mounted on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope on Mauna Kea,
Hawaii. We surveyed a 6.34 deg$^2$ centered on MBM12, making this the largest
area that has ever been surveyed in this region with submillimeter and
millimeter telescopes. Eight secure individual sources were detected with a
signal-to-noise ratio of over 4.4. These eight AzTEC sources can be considered
to be real astronomical objects compared to the other candidates based on
calculations of the false detection rate. The distribution of the detected 1.1
mm sources or compact 1.1 mm peaks is spatially anti-correlated with that of
the 100 micronm emission and the $^{12}$CO emission. We detected the 1.1 mm
dust continuum emitting sources associated with two classical T Tauri stars,
LkHalpha262 and LkHalpha264. Observations of spectral energy distributions
(SEDs) indicate that LkHalpha262 is likely to be Class II (pre-main-sequence
star), but there are also indications that it could be a late Class I
(protostar). A flared disk and a bipolar cavity in the models of Class I
sources lead to more complicated SEDs. From the present AzTEC observations of
the MBM12 region, it appears that other sources detected with AzTEC are likely
to be extragalactic and located behind MBM12. Some of these have radio
counterparts and their star formation rates are derived from a fit of the SEDs
to the photometric evolution of galaxies in which the effects of a dusty
interstellar medium have been included.