We introduce a general distributional framework that results in a unifying
description and characterization of a rich variety of continuous-time
stochastic processes. The cornerstone of our approach is an innovation model
that is driven by some generalized white noise process, which may be Gaussian
or not (e.g., Laplace, impulsive Poisson or alpha stable). This allows for a
conceptual decoupling between the correlation properties of the process, which
are imposed by the whitening operator L, and its sparsity pattern which is
determined by the type of noise excitation. The latter is fully specified by a
Levy measure. We show that the range of admissible innovation behavior varies
between the purely Gaussian and super-sparse extremes. We prove that the
corresponding generalized stochastic processes are well-defined mathematically
provided that the (adjoint) inverse of the whitening operator satisfies some Lp
bound for p>=1. We present a novel operator-based method that yields an
explicit characterization of all Levy-driven processes that are solutions of
constant-coefficient stochastic differential equations. When the underlying
system is stable, we recover the family of stationary CARMA processes,
including the Gaussian ones. The approach remains valid when the system is
unstable and leads to the identification of potentially useful generalizations
of the Levy processes, which are sparse and non-stationary. Finally, we show
how we can apply finite difference operators to obtain a stationary
characterization of these processes that is maximally decoupled and stable,
irrespective of the location of the poles in the complex plane.