Aims: We investigate the massive stellar content of the nearby dwarf
irregular Wolf-Rayet galaxy IC 4662, and consider its global star forming
properties in the context of other metal-poor galaxies, the SMC, IC 10 and NGC
1569. Methods: Very Large Telescope/FORS2 imaging and spectroscopy plus
archival Hubble Space Telescope/ACS imaging datasets permit us to spatially
identify the location, number and probable subtypes of Wolf-Rayet stars within
this galaxy. We also investigate suggestions that a significant fraction of the
ionizing photons of the two giant HII regions A1 and A2 lie deeply embedded
within these regions. Results: Wolf-Rayet stars are associated with a number of
sources within IC 4662-A1 and A2, plus a third compact HII region to the north
west of A1 (A1-NW).Several sources appear to be isolated, single (or binary)
luminous nitrogen sequence WR stars, while extended sources are clusters whose
masses exceed the Orion Nebula Cluster by, at most, a factor of two. IC 4662
lacks optically visible young massive, compact clusters that are common in
other nearby dwarf irregular galaxies. A comparison between radio and
Halpha-derived ionizing fluxes of A1 and A2 suggests that 30-50% of their total
Lyman continuum fluxes lie deeply embedded within these regions. Conclusions:
The star formation surface density of IC 4662 is insufficient for this galaxy
to qualify as a starburst galaxy, based upon its photometric radius, R_25. If
instead, we were to adopt the V-band scale length R_D from Hunter & Elmegreen,
IC 4662 would comfortably qualify as a starburst galaxy, since its star
formation intensity would exceed 0.1 M_sun/yr/kpc^2.