We study low-energy nucleon Compton scattering in the framework of baryon
chiral perturbation theory (B$\chi$PT) with pion, nucleon, and $\Delta$(1232)
degrees of freedom, up to and including the next-to-next-to-leading order
(NNLO). We include the effects of order $p^2$, $p^3$ and $p^4/\varDelta$, with
$\varDelta\approx 300$ MeV the $\Delta$-resonance excitation energy. These are
all "predictive" powers in the sense that no unknown low-energy constants enter
until at least one order higher (i.e, $p^4$). Estimating the theoretical
uncertainty on the basis of natural size for $p^4$ effects, we find that
uncertainty of such a NNLO result is comparable to the uncertainty of the
present experimental data for low-energy Compton scattering. We find an
excellent agreement with the experimental cross section data up to at least the
pion-production threshold. Nevertheless, for the proton's magnetic
polarizability we obtain a value of $(4.0\pm 0.7)\times 10^{-4}$ fm$^3$, in
significant disagreement with the current PDG value. Unlike the previous
$\chi$PT studies of Compton scattering, we perform the calculations in a
manifestly Lorentz-covariant fashion, refraining from the heavy-baryon (HB)
expansion. The difference between the lowest order HB$\chi$PT and B$\chi$PT
results for polarizabilities is found to be appreciable. We discuss the chiral
behavior of proton polarizabilities in both HB$\chi$PT and B$\chi$PT with the
hope to confront it with lattice QCD calculations in a near future. In studying
some of the polarized observables, we identify the regime where their naive
low-energy expansion begins to break down, thus addressing the forthcoming
precision measurements at the HIGS facility.