We present spectra of optical filaments associated with the X-ray knot D in
the Vela supernova remnant. It has been suggested that Knot D is formed by a
bullet of supernova ejecta, that it is a break-out of the shock front of the
Vela SNR, and also that it is an outflow from the recently discovered remnant
RXJ0852.0-4622. We find that Knot D is a bow shock propagating into an
interstellar cloud with normal abundances and typical cloud densities (n_H ~
4-11 cm^-3). Optical longslit spectra show that the [S II] 6716,6731 to Halpha
line ratio is greater than unity, proving that the optical filaments are shock
excited. The analysis of far-ultraviolet spectra obtained with the Hopkins
Ultraviolet Telescope and with the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer
(FUSE) LWRS aperture show that slower shocks (~100 km s^-1) produce most of the
low ionization lines such as O III] 1662, while faster shocks (~180 km s^-1)
produce the O VI 1032,1038 and other high ionization lines. C III and O VI
lines are also detected in the FUSE MDRS aperture, which was located on an
X-ray bright region away from the optical filaments. The lines have two
velocity components consistent with ~150 km s^-1 shocks on the near and far
sides of the knot. The driving pressure in the X-ray knot, P/k ~ 1.8E+7 cm^-3
K, is derived from the shock properties. This is over an order of magnitude
larger than the characteristic X-ray pressure in the Vela SNR. The velocity
distribution of the emission and the overpressure support the idea that Knot D
is a bow shock around a bullet or cloud that originated near the center of the
Vela remnant.