The magnetic fields of the accreting white dwarfs (WDs) in magnetic
cataclysmic variables (mCVs) determine the accretion geometries, the emission
properties, and the secular evolution of these objects. We determine the
structure of the surface magnetic fields of the WDs primaries in magnetic CVs
using Zeeman tomography. Our study is based on orbital-phase resolved optical
flux and circular polarization spectra of the polars EF Eri, BL Hyi, and CP Tuc
obtained with FORS1 at the ESO VLT. An evolutionary algorithm is used to
synthesize best fits to these spectra from an extensive database of
pre-computed Zeeman spectra. The general approach has been described in
previous papers of this series. The results achieved with simple geometries as
centered or offset dipoles are not satisfactory. Significantly improved fits
are obtained for multipole expansions that are truncated at degree l(max)=3 or
5 and include all tesseral and sectoral components with 0<=m<=l. The most
frequent field strengths of 13, 18, and 10MG for EF Eri, BL Hyi, CP Tuc and the
ranges of field strength covered are similar for the dipole and multipole
models, but only the latter provide access to accreting matter at the right
locations on the WD. The results suggest that the field geometries of the WDs
in short-period mCVs are quite complex with strong contributions from
multipoles higher than the dipole in spite of a typical age of the WDs in CVs
in excess of 1 Gyr. It is feasible to derive the surface field structure of an
accreting WD from phase-resolved low-state circular spectropolarimetry of
sufficiently high signal-to-noise ratio. The fact that independent information
is available on the strength and direction of the field in the accretion spot
from high-state observations helps in unraveling the global field structure.