We report multiwavelength observations of the soft X-ray transient (SXT) XTE
J1118+480, which we observed with UKIRT, HST, RXTE, EUVE and many other
instruments and facilities. Adding radio (Ryle Telescope, VLA), sub-millimeter
(JCMT) and X-ray (Chandra and SAX) data from the literature, we assembled the
most complete spectral energy distribution (SED) of this source yet published.
We followed the evolution of this source for 1 year, including 6 observations
performed during the outburst, and one observation at the end of the outburst.
Because of XTE J1118+480's unusually high galactic latitude, it suffers from
very low extinction, and its SED is near-complete, including EUV (Extreme
Ultraviolet) observations. XTE J1118+480 exhibits an unusually low low-hard
state (estimated inner radius 350Rs) and a strong non-thermal contribution in
the radio to optical domain, which is likely to be due to synchrotron emission.
We discuss the interstellar column density and show that it is low, between
0.80 and 1.30 x 10^20 cm-2. We analyse the evolution of the SED during the
outburst, including the contributions from the companion star, the accretion
disc, the outflow, and relating irradiation and variability of the source in
different bands to the SED. We find no significant spectral variability during
the outburst evolution, consistent with the presence of a steady outflow.
Analysis of its outflow to accretion energy ratio suggests that the microquasar
XTE J1118+480 is analogous to radio-quiet quasars. This, combined with the
inverted spectrum from radio to optical, makes XTE J1118+480 very similar to
other microquasar sources, e.g. GRS 1915+105 and GX 339-4 in their low/hard
state. We model the high-energy emission with a hot disc model, and discuss
different accretion models for XTE J1118+480's broad band spectrum.