(highly abridged) We define three requirements for accurate simulations that
attempt to model circumstellar disks and the formation of collapsed objects
(e.g. planets) within them. First, we define a resolution requirement based on
the wavelength for neutral stability of self gravitating waves in the disk. For
particle based or grid based simulations, this criterion takes the form,
respectively, of a minimum number of particles per critical (`Toomre') mass or
maximum value of a `Toomre number', $T= \delta x/\lambda_T$, where the
wavelength, $\lambda_T$, is the wavelength for neutral stability for waves in
disks. We apply our criterion to particle simulations and find that in order to
prevent numerically induced fragmentation of the disk, the Toomre mass must be
resolved by a minimum of six times the average number of neighbor particles
used. Second, we require that particle based simulations with self gravity use
a variable gravitational softening. We show that using a fixed gravitational
softening length can lead either to artificial suppression or enhancement of
structure (including fragmentation) in a given disk, or both in different
locations of the same disk. Third, we require that 3D SPH simulations resolve
the disk's vertical structure with at least $\sim4$ particle smoothing lengths
per scale height at the disk midplane and suggest that a similar criterion
applies to grid based simulations. Failure to meet this criterion leads to
underestimates in the midplane density of up to 30--50% at resolutions common
in the literature.