We present the project we are carrying out at present, the search for and
characterisation of pre-main sequence (PMS) stars among the members of Galactic
young clusters. The observations of 10 southern clusters, nine of them located
in the Carina-Sagittarius spiral arm of the Milky Way are presented. We aim at
listing candidate PMS member stars in young clusters. The catalogued stars will
serve as a basis for future spectroscopic studies of individual objects to
determine the properties of stellar formation in the last phases before the
main sequence stage. Properties such as the presence of residual envelopes or
disks, age spread among PMS members, and the possible presence of several
episodes of star formation in the clusters, are to be addressed.
  Multicolour photometry in the UBVRcIc system has been obtained for 10
southern young clusters in the fourth Galactic quadrant, located between
Galactic longitudes l=238 and l=310. For six clusters in the sample, the
observations presented here provide the first published study based on CCD
photometry. A quantitative comparison is performed with post-MS isochrones, and
PMS isochrones from three different evolutionary models are used in the
photometric membership analysis for possible PMS stars. The observations
produce photometric indices in the Johnson-Cousins photometric systems for a
total of 26962 stars. Matching with the 2MASS data base provides astrometric
calibration for all stars, and JHK 2MASS indices for 60 per cent of them.
Post-MS cluster ages range from 4 to 60 Myr, whereas the photometric membership
analysis assigns PMS membership to a total of 842 stars, covering an age range
between 1 and 10 Myr. A catalogue, named DAY-I, with the information on the PMS
candidate members has been ellaborated.