We use the sample of known stars and brown dwarfs within 5 pc of the Sun,
supplemented with AFGK stars within 10 pc, to determine which stellar spectral
types provide the most habitable real estate --- defined to be locations where
liquid water could be present on Earth-like planets. Stellar temperatures and
radii are determined by fitting model spectra to spatially resolved broad-band
photometric energy distributions for stars in the sample. The locations of the
HZ's are calculated using an empirical formula for planetary surface
temperature and assuming the condition of liquid water, called here the
empirical habitable zone, or EHZ. Systems that have dynamically disruptive
companions, assuming a 5:1 separation ratios for primary/secondary pairs and
either object and a planet, are considered not habitable. We then derive a
simple formula to predict the location of the EHZ for main sequence stars based
on V-K color. We consider EHZ widths as more useful measures of the habitable
real estate around stars than areas because multiple planets are not expected
to orbit stars at identical stellar distances. This EHZ provides a qualitative
guide on where to expect the largest population of planets in the HZ of main
sequence stars. M stars provide more EHZ real estate than other spectral types,
possessing 36.5% of the habitable real estate en masse. K stars are second with
21.5%, while A, F, and G stars offer 18.5%, 6.9% and 16.6%, respectively. Our
calculations show that three M dwarfs within 10 pc harbor planets in their
EHZs. GJ 581 may have two planets (d with msini = 6.1 M_E; g with msini = 3.1
M_E), GJ 667 C has one (c with msini = 4.5 M_E), and GJ 876 has two (b with
msini = 1.89 M_J and c with msini = 0.56 M_J). If Earth-like planets are as
common around low mass stars as recent Kepler results suggest, M stars are the
most likely place to find Earth-like planets in HZ's.