We examine the idea that dynamical parameters can be estimated by identifying
locations in the solar neighbourhood where simulated velocity distributions
match the observed local distribution. Here, the dynamical influence of both
the Galactic bar and the outer spiral pattern are taken into account. The Milky
Way disc is stirred by analytical potentials that are chosen to represent the
two perturbations, the ratio of pattern speeds of which is explored, rather
than held constant. The velocity structure of the final configuration is
presented as heliocentric velocity distributions at different locations. These
model velocity distributions are compared to the observed distribution in terms
of a goodness-of-fit parameter that has been formulated here. We monitor the
spatial distribution of the maximal value of this parameter, in order to
constrain the solar position from a model. Efficiency of a model is based on a
study of this distribution as well as on other independent dynamical
considerations. We reject the bar only and spiral only models and arrive at the
following bar parameters from the bar+spiral simulations: bar pattern speed of
57.4^{+2.8}_{-3.3} km/s/kpc and a bar angle in [0^\circ$, 30^\circ$]. However,
extracting information in this way is no longer viable when the dynamical
influence of the spiral pattern does not succumb to that of the bar. Orbital
analysis indicates that even though the basic bimodality in the local velocity
distribution can be attributed to scattering off the Outer Lindblad Resonance
of the bar, it is the interaction of irregular orbits and orbits of other
resonant families, that is responsible for the other moving groups; it is
realised that such interaction increases with the warmth of the background
disk.