We examine gravitational lensing constraints on the structure of galaxy
clusters and compare them with the results of cosmological N-body simulations
of cluster formation in cold dark matter (CDM) dominated universes. We find
that cluster core masses, as measured by the observed location of giant
tangential arcs, generally exceed those of dark matter halos of similar
velocity dispersion. The magnitude of the discrepancy is a strong function of
cluster mass. Arc properties in the most massive clusters in the sample (i.e.
those with velocity dispersion, \sigma \sim 1500-2000 km/s) are essentially
consistent with the N-body predictions. On the other hand, giant arcs in \sigma
\sim 1000 km/s clusters can only be reconciled with CDM cluster halos if their
lensing power has been increased substantially by the presence of a massive
(\sim 3 \times 10^{12} h^{-1} M_{\odot}) central galaxy and of significant
substructure. Best agreement is found if the mass of the central galaxy and the
effects of substructure are approximately independent of cluster mass. Massive
central galaxies with steep inner density profiles are also needed to explain a
clear trend observed in our dataset between the radial thickness of giant
tangential arcs and the velocity dispersion of the cluster lens. The position
and redshift of radial arcs may be used as independent tests of these results,
but at present the dataset available is too limited to have a significant
impact on these conclusions. Our results depend only weakly on the cosmological
model adopted, and suggest that structural parameters of clusters derived from
strong lensing studies cannot usefully constrain the values of cosmological
parameters.