Models with range-free frustrated Ising spin- and Hubbard interaction are
treated exactly by means of the discrete time slicing method. Critical and
tricritical points, correlations, and the fermion propagator, are derived as a
function of temperature T, chemical potential \mu, Hubbard coupling U, and spin
glass energy J. The phase diagram is obtained. Replica symmetry breaking
(RSB)-effects are evaluated up to four-step order (4RSB). The use of exact
relations together with the 4RSB-solutions allow to model exact solutions by
interpolation. For T=0, our numerical results provide strong evidence that the
exact density of states in the spin glass pseudogap regime obeys \rho(E)=const
|E-E_F| for energies close to the Fermi level. Rapid convergence of \rho'(E_F)
under increasing order of RSB is observed. The leading term resembles the
Efros-Shklovskii Coulomb pseudogap of localized disordered fermionic systems in
2D. Beyond half filling we obtain a quadratic dependence of the fermion filling
factor on the chemical potential. We find a half filling transition between a
phase for U>\mu, where the Fermi level lies inside the Hubbard gap, into a
phase where \mu(>U) is located at the center of the upper spin glass pseudogap
(SG-gap). For \mu>U the Hubbard gap combines with the lower one of two SG-gaps
(phase I), while for \mu<U it joins the sole SG-gap of the half-filling regime
(phase II). We predict scaling behaviour at the continuous half filling
transition. Implications of the half-filling transition between the deeper
insulating phase II and phase I for delocalization due to hopping processes in
itinerant model extensions are discussed and metal-insulator transition
scenarios described.