We present new optical spectroscopy of the lens elliptical galax in the
``Einstein Cross'' lens system HST 14176+5226, using the Faint Object Camera
and Spectrograph (FOCAS) of the Subaru t Our spectroscopic observations are
aimed at measuring the stella dispersion of the lens galaxy, located at high
redshift of z_L= as an important component to lens models. We have measured
this 230 +- 14 km s^{-1} (1 sigma) inside 0.35 effective radi based on the
comparison between the observed galaxy spectrum and templates of three G-K
giants by means of the Fourier cross-corr To extract the significance of this
information on the geometry universe which also affects the lensing of the
background image, to fit three different lens models to the available data of
the Provided that the lens galaxy has the structural and dynamical p (i.e., its
radial density profile, core radius, and velocity ani similar to those of local
elliptical galaxies, we calculate the function for the simultaneous
reproduction of both the observed and newly measured velocity dispersion of the
lens. Although the interval depends rather sensitively on the adopted lens
models o parameters, our experiments suggest the larger likelihood for a
cosmological constant, Omega_Lambda: formal 1 sigma lower Omega_Lambda in the
flat universe ranges 0.73 to 0.97, where lower limit is basically unavailable.
This method for determinin model is thus dependent on lens models but is
insensitive to oth ambiguities, such as the dust absorption or the evolutionary
eff galaxies. Exploring spectroscopic observations of more lens gala redshift
may minimize the model uncertainties and thus place a m constraint on
Omega_Lambda.