Frozen orbits are always important foci of orbit design because of their
valuable characteristics that their eccentricity and argument of pericentre
remain constant on average. This study investigates quasi-circular frozen
orbits and examines their basic nature analytically using two different
methods. First, an analytical method based on Lagrangian formulations is
applied to obtain constraint conditions for Martian frozen orbits. Second, Lie
transforms are employed to locate these orbits accurately, and draw the
contours of the Hamiltonian to show evolutions of the equilibria. Both methods
are verified by numerical integrations in an 80\times80 Mars gravity field. The
simulations demonstrate that these two analytical methods can provide accurate
enough results. By comparison, the two methods are found well consistent with
each other, and both discover four families of Martian frozen orbits: three
families with small eccentricities and one family near the critical
inclination. The results also show some valuable conclusions: for the majority
of Martian frozen orbits, argument of pericentre are kept at 270 degrees
because J3 has the same sign with J2; while for a minority of ones with low
altitude and low inclination, argument of pericentre are possible to be kept at
90 degrees because of the effect of the higher degree odd zonals; for the
critical inclinations cases, argument of pericentre can also be kept at 90
degrees. It is worthwhile to note that there exist some special frozen orbits
with extremely small eccentricity, which could provide much convenience for
reconnaissance. Finally, the stability of Martian frozen orbits is estimated
based on the trace of the monodromy matrix. The analytical investigations can
provide good initial conditions for numerical correction methods in the more
complex models.