We present the results of a Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropy
ground-based millimetric experiment sensitive to fluctuations on angular scales
of $\sim 2\degg$. Four independent bands centered at 3.3, 2.1, 1.3 and 1.1 mm
collected $\sim 550$ hours of observation during the Summer of 1994. The
instrument was located on the island of Tenerife at an altitude of 2400 m. The
low water-vapor content and the atmospheric stability of the site, combined
with new techniques to subtract atmospheric noise, result in the reduction of
atmospheric contamination in the lowest frequency channel to a level of $\sim
1.5$~times the instrument noise. Detailed estimations of Galactic foreground
contamination show that this contribution is negligible at $|b|
\stackrel{>}{_\sim} 12\degg$. Two different multipole bands
($\ell=53^{+22}_{-13}$ and $33^{+24}_{-13}$) are analyzed showing that our
technique to subtract the atmospheric contribution is more effective in the
multipole band at $\ell=53$. A likelihood analysis of these data reveals the
presence of a common signal between the channels at 3.3, 2.1 and 1.3 mm
corresponding to a band power estimate of $ \sqrt{\lla (\lla+1) C_{\lla}/(2
\pi)} = 2.0^{+1.0}_{-0.8} \cdot 10^{-5}$ and $\sqrt{\lla (\lla+1) C_{\lla}/(2
\pi)} = 4.1^{+2.4}_{-2.2} \cdot 10^{-5}$ for the $\ell =53$ and 33 multipole
bands respectively. Calibration uncertainty has been treated as a systematic
effect. The level of fluctuations in the $\ell =53$ band is in good agreement
with our preliminary analysis presented in Piccirillo \et 1997, with
measurements by other experiments working at similar angular scales, and with
the predictions of standard Cold Dark Matter (CDM) models.