Hot Jupiters with brightness temperatures > ~2000K can have TiO and VO
molecules as gaseous species in their atmospheres. The TiO and VO molecules can
potentially induce temperature inversions in hot Jupiter atmospheres and also
have an observable signature of large optical to infrared transit depth ratios.
Previous transmission spectra of very hot Jupiters have shown a lack of TiO and
VO, but only in planets that also appear to lack temperature inversions. We
measure the transmission spectrum of CoRoT-1b, a hot Jupiter that was predicted
to have a temperature inversion potentially due to significant TiO and VO in
its atmosphere. We employ the multi-object spectroscopy (MOS) method using the
SpeX and MORIS instruments on the Infrared Telescope Facility (IRTF) and the
Gaussian Process method to model red noise. By using a simultaneous reference
star on the slit for calibration and a wide slit to minimize slit losses, we
achieve transit depth precision of 0.03% to 0.09%, comparable to the
atmospheric scale height but detect no statistically significant molecular
features. We combine our IRTF data with optical CoRoT transmission measurements
to search for differences in the optical and near infrared absorption that
would arise from TiO/VO. Our IRTF spectrum and the CoRoT photometry disfavor a
TiO/VO-rich spectrum for CoRoT-1b, suggesting that the atmosphere has another
absorber that could create a temperature inversion or that the blackbody-like
emission from the planet is due to a spectroscopically flat cloud, dust or haze
layer that smoothes out molecular features in both CoRoT-1b's emission and
transmission spectra. This system represents the faintest planet hosting star
(K=12.2) with a measured planetary transmission spectrum.