The long term study of the Sun is necessary if we are to determine the
evolution of sunspot properties and thereby inform modeling of the solar
dynamo, particularly on scales of a solar cycle. We aim to determine a number
of sunspot properties over cycle 23 using the uniform database provided by the
SOHO Michelson Doppler Imager data. We focus in particular on their
distribution on the solar disk, maximum magnetic field and umbral/penumbral
areas. We investigate whether the secular decrease in sunspot maximum magnetic
field reported in Kitt Peak data is present also in MDI data. We have used the
Sunspot Tracking And Recognition Algorithm (STARA) to detect all sunspots
present in the SOHO Michelson Doppler Imager continuum data giving us 30 084
separate detections. We record information on the sunspot locations, area and
magnetic field properties and corresponding information for the umbral areas
detected within the sunspots, and track them through their evolution. We find
the total visible umbral area is 20-40% of the total visible sunspot area at
all stages of the solar cycle. We find that the number of sunspots observed
follows the Solar Influences Data Centre International Sunspot Number with some
interesting deviations. Finally, we use the magnetic information in our
catalogue to study the long term variation of magnetic field strength within
sunspot umbrae and find that it increases and decreases along with the sunspot
number. However, if we were to assume a secular decreaseas was reported in the
Kitt Peak data and take into account sunspots throughout the whole solar cycle
we would find the maximum umbral magnetic fields to be decreasing by 23.6 \pm
3.9 Gauss per year, which is far less than has previously been observed by
other studies. If we only look at the declining phase of cycle 23 we find the
decrease in sunspot magnetic fields to be 70 Gauss per year.