The exploration of geothermal system at Mount Ciremai has been started since
the early 1980s and has just been studied carefully since the early 2000s.
Previous studies have detected the potential of geothermal system and also the
groundwater mechanism feeding the system. This paper will discuss the
geothermal exploration based on regional scale surface temperature analysis
with Landsat image to have a more detail interpretation of the geological
setting and magneto-telluric or MT survey at prospect zones, which identified
by the previous method, to have a more exact and in depth local scale
structural interpretation. Both methods are directed to pin point appropriate
locations for geothermal pilot hole drilling and testing.
  We used four scenes of Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper or ETM+ data to
estimate the surface manifestation of a geothermal system. Temporal analysis of
Land Surface Temperature or LST was applied and coupled with field temperature
measurement at seven locations. By combining the TTM with NDVI threshold, the
contributors can identify six zones with surface temperature anomaly. Among these
six zones, three zones were interpreted to have a relation with geothermal
system and the other three zones were related to human activities. Then, MT
survey was performed at the three geothermal prospects identified from previous
remote sensing analysis, at the east flank of the volcano, to estimate the
detail subsurface structures. The MT survey successfully identified four buried
normal faults in the area, which positively are a part of the conduits in the
geothermal system east of Mount Ciremai. From MT analysis, the contributor also
found the locations of volcanic zone, bedrock zone, and the prospect zone. The
combination of Landsat analysis on regional scale and MT measurement on a more
detail scale has proven to be the reliable method to map geothermal prospect
area.