Digital medical informatics and images are commonly used in hospitals today,.
Because of the interrelatedness of the radiology department and other
departments, especially the intensive care unit and emergency department, the
transmission and sharing of medical images has become a critical issue. Our
research group has developed a Java-based Distributed Object Medical Imaging
Model(DOMIM) to facilitate the rapid development and deployment of medical
imaging applications in a distributed environment that can be shared and used
by related departments and mobile physiciansDOMIM is a unique suite of
multimedia telemedicine applications developed for the use by medical related
organizations. The applications support realtime patients' data, image files,
audio and video diagnosis annotation exchanges. The DOMIM enables joint
collaboration between radiologists and physicians while they are at distant
geographical locations. The DOMIM environment consists of heterogeneous,
autonomous, and legacy resources. The Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), and Java language provide the
capability to combine the DOMIM resources into an integrated, interoperable,
and scalable system. The underneath technology, including IDL ORB, Event
Service, IIOP JDBC/ODBC, legacy system wrapping and Java implementation are
explored. This paper explores a distributed collaborative CORBA/JDBC based
framework that will enhance medical information management requirements and
development. It encompasses a new paradigm for the delivery of health services
that requires process reengineering, cultural changes, as well as
organizational changes