We present new MIDI interferometric and VISIR spectroscopic observations of
HD113766 and HD172555. Additionally we present VISIR 11um and 18um imaging
observations of HD113766. These sources represent the youngest (16Myr and 12Myr
old respectively) debris disc hosts with emission on <<10AU scales. We find
that the disc of HD113766 is partially resolved on baselines of 42-102m, with
variations in resolution with baseline length consistent with a Gaussian model
for the disc with FWHM of 1.2-1.6AU (9-12mas). This is consistent with the
VISIR observations which place an upper limit of 0."14 (17AU) on the emission,
with no evidence for extended emission at larger distances. For HD172555 the
MIDI observations are consistent with complete resolution of the disc emission
on all baselines of lengths 56-93m, putting the dust at a distance of >1AU
(>35mas). When combined with limits from TReCS imaging the dust at ~10um is
constrained to lie somewhere in the region 1-8AU. Observations at ~18um reveal
extended disc emission which could originate from the outer edge of a broad
disc, the inner parts of which are also detected but not resolved at 10um, or
from a spatially distinct component. These observations provide the most
accurate direct measurements of the location of dust at 1-8AU that might
originate from the collisions expected during terrestrial planet formation.
These observations provide valuable constraints for models of the composition
of discs at this epoch and provide a foundation for future studies to examine
in more detail the morphology of debris discs.