Observations indicate that present-day star formation in the Milky Way disk
takes place in stellar ensembles or clusters rather than in isolation. Bound,
long lived stellar groups are known as open clusters. They gradually lose stars
and in their final evolutionary stages they are severely disrupted leaving an
open cluster remnant made of a few stars. In this paper, we study in detail the
stellar content and kinematics of the poorly populated star cluster NGC1901.
This object appears projected against the Large Magellanic Cloud. The aim of
the present work is to derive the current evolutionary status, binary fraction,
age and mass of this stellar group. These are fundamental quantities to compare
with those from N-body models in order to study the most general topic of star
cluster evolution and dissolution.The analysis is performed using wide-field
photometry in the UBVI pass-band, proper motions from the UCAC.2 catalog, and 3
epochs of high resolution spectroscopy, as well as results from extensive
N-body calculations.The star group NGC1901 is found to be an ensemble of solar
metallicity stars, 400+/-100 Myr old, with a core radius of 0.23 pc, a tidal
radius of 1.0 pc, and located at 400+/-50 pc from the Sun. Out of 13 confirmed
members, only 5 single stars have been found. Its estimated present-day binary
fraction is at least 62%. The calculated heliocentric space motion of the
cluster is not compatible with possible membership in the Hyades stream.Our
results show that NGC1901 is a clear prototype of open cluster remnant
characterized by a large value of the binary fraction and a significant
depletion of low-mass stars. In the light of numerical simulations, this is
compatible with NGC1901 being what remains of a larger system initially made of
500-750 stars.