We have reanalyzed data from observations of PSR B1706-44, SN 1006, and the
Vela pulsar region made with the CANGAROO 3.8 m imaging atmospheric Cherenkov
telescope between 1993 and 1998 in response to the results reported for these
sources by the H.E.S.S. collaboration. In our reanalysis, in which gamma-ray
selection criteria have been determined exclusively using gamma-ray simulations
and OFF-source data as background samples, no significant TeV gamma-ray signals
have been detected from compact regions around PSR B1706-44 or within the
northeast rim of SN 1006. We discuss reasons why the original analyses gave the
source detections. The reanalysis did result in a TeV gamma-ray signal from the
Vela pulsar region at the 4.5 sigma level using 1993, 1994, and 1995 data. The
excess was located at the same position, 0.13 deg. to the southeast of the Vela
pulsar, as that reported in the original analysis. We have investigated the
effect of the acceptance distribution in the field of view of the 3.8 m
telescope, which rapidly decreases toward the edge of the field of the camera,
on the detected gamma-ray morphology. The expected excess distribution for the
3.8 m telescope has been obtained by reweighting the distribution of HESS
J0835-455 measured by H.E.S.S. with the acceptance of the 3.8 m telescope. The
result is morphologically comparable to the CANGAROO excess distribution,
although the profile of the acceptance-reweighted H.E.S.S. distribution is more
diffuse than that of CANGAROO. The integral gamma-ray flux from HESS J0835-455
has been estimated for the same region as defined by H.E.S.S. from the
1993-1995 data of CANGAROO to be F(> 4.0 +/- 1.6 TeV) = (3.28 +/- 0.92) x
10^{-12} photons cm^{-2} s^{-1}, which is statistically consistent with the
integral flux obtained by H.E.S.S.