We study the interactions between stellar wind and the extended
hydrogen-dominated upper atmospheres of planets and the resulting escape of
planetary pick-up ions from the 5 "super-Earths" in the compact Kepler-11
system and compare the escape rates with the efficiency of the thermal escape
of neutral hydrogen atoms. Assuming the stellar wind of Kepler-11 is similar to
the solar wind, we use a polytropic 1D hydrodynamic wind model to estimate the
wind properties at the planetary orbits. We apply a Direct Simulation Monte
Carlo Model to model the hydrogen coronae and the stellar wind plasma
interaction around Kepler-11b-f within a realistic expected heating efficiency
range of 15-40%. The same model is used to estimate the ion pick-up escape from
the XUV heated and hydrodynamically extended upper atmospheres of Kepler-11b-f.
From the interaction model we study the influence of possible magnetic moments,
calculate the charge exchange and photoionization production rates of planetary
ions and estimate the loss rates of pick-up H+ ions for all five planets. We
compare the results between the five "super-Earths" and in a more general sense
also with the thermal escape rates of the neutral planetary hydrogen atoms. Our
results show that for all Kepler-11b-f exoplanets, a huge neutral hydrogen
corona is formed around the planet. The non-symmetric form of the corona
changes from planet to planet and is defined mostly by radiation pressure and
gravitational effects. Non-thermal escape rates of pick-up ionized hydrogen
atoms for Kepler-11 "super-Earths" vary between approximately 6.4e30 1/s and
4.1e31 1/s depending on the planet's orbital location and assumed heating
efficiency. These values correspond to non-thermal mass loss rates of
approximately 1.07e7 g/s and 6.8e7 g/s respectively, which is a few percent of
the thermal escape rates.