In 1999, the FCC contributorized direct access to INTELSAT, allowing INTELSAT's
U.S. customers and competitors to bypass INTELSAT's U.S. retail affiliate
(COMSAT), and to take satellite capacity at wholesale prices directly from
INTELSAT. This policy was modeled in many respects on the access and unbundling
requirements applicable to domestic incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs)
under the Telecommunications Act of 1996. At the same time, incumbent domestic
cable TV system operators have not been required to provide wholesale open
access to competitive Internet Service Providers (ISPs) seeking to provide
residential broadband Internet service through existing proprietary cable
facilities. Yet the policy arguments favoring open access to incumbent domestic
cable systems appear to be stronger than those favoring direct access to
INTELSAT.
  For example, it may be fairly debated whether entrenched cable system
operators are now positioned to unfairly leverage their dominance in the
multichannel video programming distribution (MVPD) market to thwart competition
in the broadband ISP market, as some cable open access advocates assert. In
contrast, it is clear that no analogous issues of tying were implicated by
INTELSAT in 1999, when its position in the international telecommunications
market was substantially nondominant and, in any event, it had no new product
to tie to its established offerings. Similarly, while it may be debated whether
or not a cable plant is a bottleneck facility that gatekeeps broadband Internet
for many residential users, it is beyond cavil that INTELSAT in 1999 controlled
virtually no such bottleneck facilities.