The redshift range from 2.2 to 3, is known as the 'redshift desert' of
quasars because quasars with redshift in this range have similar optical colors
as normal stars and are thus difficult to be found in optical sky surveys. A
quasar candidate, SDSS J085543.40-001517.7, which was selected by a recently
proposed criterion involving near-IR $Y-K$ and optical $g-z$ colors, was
identified spectroscopically as a new quasar with redshift of 2.427 by the
LAMOST commissioning observation in December 2009 and confirmed by the
observation made with the NAOC/Xinglong 2.16m telescope in March 2010. This
quasar was not targeted in the SDSS spectroscopic survey because it locates in
the stellar locus of the optical color-color diagrams, while it is clearly
separated from stars in the $Y-K$ vs. $g-z$ diagram. Comparing with other SDSS
quasars we found this new quasar with $i$ magnitude of 16.44 is apparently the
brightest one in the redshift range from 2.3 to 2.7. From the spectral
properties we derived its central black hole mass as $(1.4\sim3.9) \times
10^{10} M_\odot$ and the bolometric luminosity as $3.7\times 10^{48}$ \ergs,
which indicates that this new quasar is intrinsically very bright and belongs
to the most luminous quasars in the universe. Our identification supports that
quasars in the redshift desert can be found by the quasar selection criterion
involving the near-IR colors. More missing quasars are expected to be recovered
by the future LAMOST spectroscopic surveys, which is important to the study of
the cosmological evolution of quasars at redshift higher than 2.2.