We study a particle system with hopping (random walk) dynamics on the integer
lattice $\mathbb Z^d$. The particles can exist in two states, active or
inactive (sleeping); only the former can hop. The dynamics conserves the number
of particles; there is no limit on the number of particles at a given site.
Isolated active particles fall asleep at rate $\lambda > 0$, and then remain
asleep until joined by another particle at the same site. The state in which
all particles are inactive is absorbing. Whether activity continues at long
times depends on the relation between the particle density $\zeta$ and the
sleeping rate $\lambda$. We discuss the general case, and then, for the
one-dimensional totally asymmetric case, study the phase transition between an
active phase (for sufficiently large particle densities and/or small $\lambda$)
and an absorbing one. We also present arguments regarding the asymptotic mean
hopping velocity in the active phase, the rate of fixation in the absorbing
phase, and survival of the infinite system at criticality. Using mean-field
theory and Monte Carlo simulation, we locate the phase boundary. The phase
transition appears to be continuous in both the symmetric and asymmetric
versions of the process, but the critical behavior is very different. The
former case is characterized by simple integer or rational values for critical
exponents ($\beta = 1$, for example), and the phase diagram is in accord with
the prediction of mean-field theory. We present evidence that the symmetric
version belongs to the universality class of conserved stochastic sandpiles,
also known as conserved directed percolation. Simulations also reveal an
interesting transient phenomenon of damped oscillations in the activity
density.