We report on two NuSTAR observations of GRS 1741.9-2853, a faint neutron star
low mass X-ray binary burster located 10' away from the Galactic center. NuSTAR
detected the source serendipitously as it was emerging from quiescence: its
luminosity was $6\times 10^{34}$ erg~s$^{-1}$ on 2013 July 31, and $5\times
10^{35}$ erg~s$^{-1}$ in a second observation on 2013 August 3. A bright, 800-s
long, H-triggered mixed H/He thermonuclear Type I burst with mild photospheric
radius expansion (PRE) was present during the second observation. Assuming that
the luminosity during the PRE was at the Eddington level, a H mass fraction
$X=0.7$ in the atmosphere, and a neutron star mass $M=1.4 M_{\odot}$, we
determine a new lower limit on the distance for this source of $6.3 \pm 0.5$
kpc. Combining with previous upper limits, this places GRS 1741.9-2853 at a
distance of 7 kpc. Energy independent (achromatic) variability is observed
during the cooling of the neutron star, which could result from the disturbance
of the inner accretion disk by the burst. The large dynamic range of this burst
reveals a long power-law decay tail. We also detect, at a 95.6\% confidence
level (1.7 $\sigma$), a narrow absorption line at $5.46\pm0.10$ keV during the
PRE phase of the burst, reminiscent of the detection by Waki et al. (1984). We
propose that the line, if real, is formed in the wind above the photosphere of
the neutron star by a resonant K$\alpha$ transition from H-like Cr
gravitationally redshifted by a factor $1+z=1.09$, corresponding to a radius
range of 29.0 -- 41.4 km for a mass range of 1.4 -- 2.0 $M_{\odot}$.