The study of crowd dynamics is interesting because of the various
self-organization phenomena resulting from the interactions of many
pedestrians, which may improve or obstruct their flow. Besides formation of
lanes of uniform walking direction and oscillations at bottlenecks at moderate
densities, it was recently discovered that stop-and-go waves [D. Helbing et
al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 168001 (2006)] and a phenomenon called "crowd
turbulence" can occur at high pedestrian densities [D. Helbing et al., Phys.
Rev. E 75, 046109 (2007)]. Although the behavior of pedestrian crowds under
extreme conditions is decisive for the safety of crowds during the access to or
egress from mass events as well as for situations of emergency evacuation,
there is still a lack of empirical studies of extreme crowding. Therefore, this
paper discusses how one may study high-density conditions based on suitable
video data. This is illustrated at the example of pilgrim flows entering the
previous Jamarat Bridge in Mina, 5 kilometers from the Holy Mosque in Makkah,
Saudi-Arabia. Our results reveal previously unexpected pattern formation
phenomena and show that the average individual speed does not go to zero even
at local densities of 10 persons per square meter. Since the maximum density
and flow are different from measurements in other countries, this has
implications for the capacity assessment and dimensioning of facilities for
mass events. When conditions become congested, the flow drops significantly,
which can cause stop-and-go waves and a further increase of the density until
critical crowd conditions are reached. Then, "crowd turbulence" sets in, which
may trigger crowd disasters.