We present the first optical images of scattered light from large, detached
gas/dust shells around two carbon stars, R Scl and U Ant, obtained in narrow
band filters centred on the resonance lines of neutral K and Na, and in a Str.
b filter (only U Ant). They confirm results obtained in CO radio line
observations, but also reveal new and interesting structures. Towards R Scl the
scattering appears optically thick in both the K and Na filters, and both
images outline almost perfectly circular disks with essentially uniform
intensity out to a sharp outer radius of 21". These disks are larger -- by
about a factor of two -- than the radius of the detached shell which has been
marginally resolved in CO radio line data. In U Ant the scattering in the K
filter appears to be, at least partially, optically thin, and the image is
consistent with scattering in a geometrically thin (3") shell (radius 43") with
an overall spherical symmetry. The size of this shell agrees very well with
that of the detached shell seen in CO radio line emission. The scattering in
the Na filter appears more optically thick, and the image suggests the presence
of at least one, possibly two, shells inside the 43" shell. There is no
evidence for such a multiple-shell structure in the CO data, but this can be
due to considerably lower masses for these inner shells. Weak scattering
appears also in a shell which is located outside the 43" shell. The present
data do not allow us to conclusively identify the scattering agent, but we
argue that most of the emission in the K and Na filter images is to due to
resonance line scattering, and that there is also a weaker contribution from
dust scattering in the U Ant data. Awaiting new observational data, our
interpretation must be regarded as tentative.