In order to better understand the nature of active region outflows, the
electron density was measured by using a density-sensitive line pair Fe xiv
264.78A/274.20A.Since coronal line profiles of the outflow region are composed
of a major component with a Doppler shift of < 10 km s^-1 and a minor component
(enhanced blue wing: EBW) blueshifted by up to 100 km s^-1, we extracted EBW
from the line profiles through double-Gaussian fitting. We tried applying the
simultaneous fitting to those two Fe xiv lines with several physical
restrictions. Electron density for both components (n_Major and n_EBW,
respectively) was calculated by referring to the theoretical intensity ratio as
a function of electron density as per the CHIANTI database. We studied six
locations in the outflow regions around NOAA AR10978. The average electron
density was n_Major = 10^(9.16 +- 0.16) cm^-3 and n_EBW = 10^(8.74 +- 0.29)
cm^-3. The magnitude relationship between n_Major and n_EBW was opposite in the
eastern and western outflow regions. The column depth was also calculated for
each component, which leads to the result that the outflows possess only a
small fraction (~ 0.1) in the eastern region, while they dominate over the
major component in the line profiles by a factor of five in the western region.
When taking into account the extending coronal structures, the western region
can be thought to represent the mass leakage. In contrast, we suggest a
possibility that the eastern region actually contributes to the mass supply to
coronal loops.