By combining HST imaging with optical (VIMOS) and near-infrared (SINFONI)
integral field spectroscopy we exploit the gravitational potential of a
massive, rich cluster at z=0.9 to study the internal properties of a
gravitationally lensed galaxy at z=4.88. Using a detailed gravitational lens
model of the cluster RCS0224-002 we reconstruct the source-frame morphology of
the lensed galaxy on 200pc scales and find an ~L* Lyman-break galaxy with an
intrinsic size of only 2.0x0.8kpc, a velocity gradient of <60km/s and an
implied dynamical mass of 1.0x10^10Mo within 2kpc. We infer an integrated
star-formation rate of just 12+/-2Mo/yr from the intrinsic [OII] emission line
flux. The Ly-alpha emission appears redshifted by +200+/-40km/s with respect to
the [OII] emission. The Ly-alpha is also significantly more extended than the
nebular emission, extending over 11.9x2.4kpc. Over this area, the Ly-alpha
centroid varies by less than 10km/s. By examining the spatially resolved
structure of the [OII] and asymmetric Ly-alpha emission lines we investigate
the nature of this system. The model for local starburst galaxies suggested by
Mass-Hesse et al. (2003) provides a good description of our data, and suggests
that the galaxy is surrounded by a galactic-scale bi-polar outflow which has
recently burst out of the system. The outflow, which appears to be currently
located >30kpc from the galaxy, is escaping at a speed of upto ~500km/s.
Although the mass of the outflow is uncertain, the geometry and velocity of the
outflow suggests that the ejected material is travelling far faster than escape
velocity and will travel more than 1Mpc (comoving) before eventually stalling.