We present ISO PHOT-S spectra of four galaxies known or suspected to host a
central AGN, selected from the initial Iras/Rosat sample of Boller et al.
(1992). Two of them had no obvious Seyfert features in their previous optical
spectra: IRAS 14201+2956, and IRAS 21582+1018. The latter was bright enough to
also allow SWS observations around selected neon lines, to establish its
excitation. While both PHOT-S spectra are characteristic of starburst-dominated
galaxies, the neon line ratios in IRAS 21582+1018 indicate the presence of a
hard excitation source. New, high-resolution, optical spectra show only a weak,
broad component around Halpha, classifying now these two objects as Sey 1.9
galaxies. The two other galaxies observed are the NLS1 galaxies Mrk 359 and Mrk
1388. Their ISO spectra however do not reveal the typical, strong PAH features
found in the starburst galaxies and are more like those of standard Seyferts.
These results show therefore that, although IR observations were expected to be
able to always reveal the presence of an active nucleus by piercing through the
central obscuration, the result may be ambiguous: the broad band IR energy
distribution can still be dominated by starburts located in a circumnuclear
region, and the AGN appear only in specific observations (high-excitation lines
in the IR, or optical spectra with better quality than classification spectra).
The obscuration needs however to be patchy rather than complete, to explain the
detection of the high-excitation lines or broad Balmer wings. Only high-energy
observations can then establish the strength of the central
 AGN and the amount of extinction with certainty.