We present deep Hubble Space Telescope single-star photometry of Leo A in B,
V, and I. Our new field of view is offset from the centrally located field
observed by Tolstoy et al. (1998) in order to expose the halo population of
this galaxy. We report the detection of metal-poor red horizontal branch stars,
which demonstrate that Leo A is not a young galaxy. In fact, Leo A is as least
as old as metal-poor Galactic Globular Clusters which exhibit red horizontal
branches, and are considered to have a minimum age of about 9 Gyr. We discuss
the distance to Leo A, and perform an extensive comparison of the data with
stellar isochrones. For a distance modulus of 24.5, the data are better than
50% complete down to absolute magnitudes of 2 or more. We can easily identify
stars with metallicities between 0.0001 and 0.0004, and ages between about 5
and 10 Gyr, in their post-main-sequence phases, but lack the detection of
main-sequence turnoffs which would provide unambiguous proof of ancient (>10
Gyr) stellar generations. Blue horizontal branch stars are above the detection
limits, but difficult to distinguish from young stars with similar colors and
magnitudes. Synthetic color-magnitude diagrams show it is possible to populate
the blue horizontal branch in the halo of Leo A. The models also suggest ~50%
of the total astrated mass in our pointing to be attributed to an ancient (>10
Gyr) stellar population. We conclude that Leo A started to form stars at least
about 9 Gyr ago. Leo A exhibits an extremely low oxygen abundance, of only 3%
of Solar, in its ionized interstellar medium. The existence of old stars in
this very oxygen-deficient galaxy illustrates that a low oxygen abundance does
not preclude a history of early star formation.