We present photometric and spectroscopic observations of SN 2000ch, an
unusual and extremely luminous variable star located in the galaxy NGC 3432.
The object was discovered on 2000 May 3.2 during the course of the Lick
Observatory Supernova Search, at an unfiltered magnitude of about 17.4.
Pre-discovery images obtained in 1997, 1998, and 2000 April show the object
with R = 19.2-19.5 mag. Optical spectra obtained beginning on 2000 May 6 show a
smooth, flat continuum and strong, broad hydrogen Balmer emission lines at
wavelengths consistent with the catalogued redshift of NGC 3432, strengthening
the association of the variable with the galaxy. Photometric monitoring reveals
a complex and erratic light curve over a time span of ~10 days. Subsequent
optical spectra over the next ~3 months continued to show strong Balmer
emission lines with a mean full-width at half-maximum intensity ~1550 km/s and
a distinct red asymmetry. A spectrum obtained 9 months after the outburst is
similar to the previous spectra, but the integrated flux in H-alpha is nearly
half that observed during the outburst. The object's photometric behavior,
spectrum, and luminosity suggest that it is a very massive and luminous
variable star and might be related to some luminous blue variable stars such as
eta Carinae and SN 1997bs in NGC 3627. The brightest apparent magnitude implies
an absolute magnitude of approximately -12.7 at the distance of NGC 3432, a
value which is comparable to eta Carinae during its outburst in the
mid-nineteenth century.