Several tools exist that collect host-to-host connectivity measurements. To
improve the usability of such measurements, they should be mapped into a
framework consisting of complex subsystems, and the infrastructure that
connects them. We introduce one such framework, and analyze the architectural
implications on the network structure. In our framework, a complex subsystem
consists of several computing facilities and the infrastructure that connects
them: we call it a -monitoring domain-. The task of measuring the connectivity
between -monitoring domains- is considered distinct from the activity of
-storage- and -computing- elements. Therefore we introduce a new element in our
topology: we call it -theodolite- element, since its function is similar to
that of a transponder. Using these basic concepts, we analyze the architectural
implications on the network structure: in a nutshell, if we want that
-theodolites- serve as a reference, than the contribution to the relevant
network metrics due to the -monitoring domain- infrastructure must be
negligible with respect to contributions of the inter-domain infrastructure. In
addition all -theodolites- of a -monitoring domain- must give an image of the
inter-domain infrastructure that is consistent with that experienced by network
applications. We conclude giving a running SQL example of how information about
-monitoring domains- and -theodolites- could be organized, and we outline the
application of such framework in the GLUE schema activity for the network
element