We present Spitzer/MIPS 24 micron observations of 50 supernova host galaxies
at 0.1<z<1.7 in the Great Observatories Origins Deep Survey (GOODS) fields. We
also discuss the detection of SN host galaxies in SCUBA/850 micron observations
of GOODS-N and Spitzer/Infrared Spectrograph (IRS) 16 micron observations of
GOODS-S. About 60% of the host galaxies of both Type Ia and core-collapse
supernovae are detected at 24 microns, a detection rate which is a factor of
1.5 higher than the field galaxy population. Among the 24 micron detected
hosts, 80% have far-infrared luminosities that are comparable to or greater
than the optical luminosity indicating the presence of substantial amounts of
dust in the hosts. The median bolometric luminosity of the Type Ia SN hosts is
\~10^10.5 L_sun, very similar to that of core-collapse SN hosts. Using the high
resolution Hubble/ACS data, we have studied the variation of rest-frame
optical/ultraviolet colors within the 24 micron detected galaxies at z<1 to
understand the origin of the dust emission. The 24 micron detected galaxies
have average colors which are redder by ~0.1 mag than the 24 micron undetected
hosts while the latter show greater scatter in internal colors. This suggests
that a smooth distribution of dust is responsible for the observed mid- and
far-infrared emission. 70% of supernovae that have been detected in the GOODS
fields are located within the half-light radius of the hosts where dust
obscuration effects are significant. Although the dust emission that we detect
cannot be translated into a line of sight A_V, we suggest that the factor of
2-3 larger scatter in the peak B-V colors that is seen in the high-z Type Ia
supernova sample relative to the low-z supernovae might be partially due to the
dust that we detect in the hosts.