We present the results of the Nobeyama Radio Observatory (NRO) M33 All Disk
(30'x30' or 7.3 kpc x 7.3 kpc) Survey of Giant Molecular Clouds (NRO MAGiC)
based on 12CO (1-0) observations using the NRO 45-m telescope. The spatial
resolution of the resultant map is 19".3, corresponding to 81 pc, which is
sufficient to identify each Giant Molecular Cloud (GMC) in the disk. We found
clumpy structures with a typical spatial scale of ~100 pc, corresponding to
GMCs, and no diffuse, smoothly distributed component of molecular gas at this
sensitivity. Closer inspection of the CO and HI maps suggests that not every CO
emission is associated with local HI peaks, particularly in the inner portion
of the disk (r < 2 kpc), although most of CO emission is located at the local
HI peaks in the outer radii. We found that most uncovered GMCs are accompanied
by massive star-forming regions, although the star formation rates (SFRs) vary
widely from cloud to cloud. The azimuthally averaged H{\sc i} gas surface
density exhibits a flat radial distribution. However, the CO radial
distribution shows a significant enhancement within the central 1-2 kpc region,
which is very similar to that of the SFR. We obtained a map of the molecular
fraction, f_mol = Sigma_H_2/(Sigma_HI+Sigma_H_2, at a 100-pc resolution. This
is the first f_mol map covering an entire galaxy with a GMC-scale resolution.
We find that f_mol tends to be high near the center. The correlation between
f_mol and gas surface density shows two distinct sequences. The presence of two
correlation sequences can be explained by differences in metallicity, i.e.,
higher (~ 2-fold) metallicity in the central region (r< 1.5 kpc) than in the
outer parts. Alternatively, differences in scale height can also account for
the two sequences, i.e., increased scale height toward the outer disk.