It is generally known that multi-spacecraft observations of interplanetary
coronal mass ejections (ICMEs) more clearly reveal their three-dimensional
structure than do observations made by a single spacecraft. The launch of the
STEREO twin observatories in October 2006 has greatly increased the number of
multipoint studies of ICMEs in the literature, but this field is still in its
infancy. To date, most studies continue to use on flux rope models that rely on
single track observations through a vast, multi-faceted structure, which
oversimplifies the problem and often hinders interpretation of the large-scale
geometry, especially for cases in which one spacecraft observes a flux rope,
while another does not. In order to tackle these complex problems, new modeling
techniques are required. We describe these new techniques and analyze two ICMEs
observed at the twin STEREO spacecraft on 22-23 May 2007, when the spacecraft
were separated by ~8 degrees. We find a combination of non-force-free flux rope
multi-spacecraft modeling, together with a new non-flux rope ICME plasma flow
deflection model, better constrains the large-scale structure of these ICMEs.
We also introduce a new spatial mapping technique that allows us to put
multispacecraft observations and the new ICME model results in context with the
convecting solar wind. What is distinctly different about this analysis is that
it reveals aspects of ICME geometry and dynamics in a far more visually
intuitive way than previously accomplished. In the case of the 22-23 May ICMEs,
the analysis facilitates a more physical understanding of ICME large-scale
structure, the location and geometry of flux rope sub-structures within these
ICMEs, and their dynamic interaction with the ambient solar wind.