The aim of this study is to investigate the distribution and excitation of
the methanol gas around Cep A and to describe the physical conditions of the
region. In addition the large scale abundance distribution is determined in
order to understand the morphology and kinematics of star forming regions in
which methanol masers occur. The spatial distribution of the methanol is
studied by mapping line emission, as well as the column density and excitation
temperature, which are estimated using rotation diagrams. For a limited number
of positions the parameters are checked with non-LTE models. Furthermore, the
distribution of the methanol abundance is derived in comparison with archival
dust continuum maps. Methanol is detected over a 0.3x0.15 pc area centred on
the Cep A HW2 source, showing an outflow signature. Most of the gas can be
characterized by a moderately warm rotation temperature (30-60K). At the
central position two velocity components are detected with different excitation
characteristics, the first related to the large-scale outflow. The second
component, uniquely detected at the central location, is probably associated
with the maser emission on much smaller scales of 2". Detailed analysis reveals
that the highest densities and temperatures occur for these inner components.
In the inner region the dust and gas are shown to have different physical
parameters. Abundances of methanol in the range 10E-9 - 10E-7 are inferred,
with the abundance peaking at the maser position. The geometry of the
large-scale methanol is in accordance with previous determinations of the Cep A
geometry, in particular those from methanol masers. The dynamical and chemical
time-scales are consistent with the methanol originating from a single driving
source associated with the HW2 object and the masers in its equatorial region.