Recently, energy harvesting (EH) has emerged as a promising way to realize
green communications. In this paper, we investigate the multiuser transmission
network with an EH cooperative relay, where a source transmits independent
information to multiple destinations with the help of an energy constrained
relay. The relay can harvest energy from the radio frequency (RF) signals
transmitted from the source, and it helps the multiuser transmission only by
consuming the harvested energy. By adopting the time switching and the
power-splitting relay receiver architectures, we firstly propose two protocols,
the time-switching cooperative multiuser transmission (TSCMT) protocol and the
power-splitting cooperative multiuser transmission (PSCMT) protocol, to enable
the simultaneous information processing and EH at the relay for the system. To
evaluate the system performance, we theoretically analyze the system outage
probability for the two proposed protocols, and then derive explicit
expressions for each of them, respectively. Moreover, we also discuss the
effects of system configuration parameters, such as the source power and relay
location on the system performance. Numerical results are provided to
demonstrate the accuracy of our analytical results and reveal that compared
with traditional non-cooperative scheme, our proposed protocols are green
solutions to offer reliable communication and lower system outage probability
without consuming additional energy. In particular, for the same transmit power
at the source, the PSCMT protocol is superior to the TSCMT protocol to obtain
lower system outage probability.