We study the distribution of bright star-forming complexes in a homogeneous
sample of 72 late-type (``irregular'') dwarf galaxies located within the 10 Mpc
volume. Star-forming complexes are identified as bright lumps in B-band galaxy
images and isolated by means of the unsharp-masking method. For the sample as a
whole the radial number distribution of bright lumps largely traces the
underlying exponential-disk light profiles, but peaks at a 10 percent smaller
scale length. Moreover, the presence of a tail of star forming regions out to
at least six optical scale lengths provides evidence against a systematic star
formation truncation within that galaxy extension. Considering these findings,
we apply a scale length-independent concentration index, taking into account
the implied non-uniform random spread of star formation regions throughout the
disk. The number profiles frequently manifest a second, minor peak at about two
scale lengths. Relying on a two-dimensional stochastic self-propagating star
formation model, we show these secondary peaks to be consistent with triggered
star formation; for a few of the brighter galaxies a peculiar peak distribution
is observed that is conceivably due to the onset of shear provided by
differential rotation. On scales between 100 and 1000 pc, and by taking into
account exponential-disk structure, bright lumps reveal cluster dimensions
between 1.3 and 2, with a weak trend to higher dimensions for brighter
galaxies. Interpreting cluster dimension in terms of porosity of a self-similar
intragalactic medium, we derive a relation between current star formation rate,
scale length, and porosity.