We present the results of an extensive spectroscopic survey of RX
J0152.7-1357, one of the most massive distant clusters of galaxies known.
Multi-object spectroscopy, carried out with FORS1 and FORS2 on the ESO Very
Large Telescope (VLT), has allowed us to measure more than 200 redshifts in the
cluster field and to confirm 102 galaxies as cluster members. The mean redshift
of the cluster is $z=0.837 \pm 0.001$ and we estimate the velocity dispersion
of the overall cluster galaxy distribution to be $\sim 1600 \mathrm{km \
s^{-1}}$. The distribution of cluster members is clearly irregular, with two
main clumps that follow the X-ray cluster emission mapped by Chandra. A third
clump of galaxies to the east of the central structure and at the cluster
redshift has also been identified. The two main clumps have velocity
dispersions of $\sim919$ and $\sim737 \mathrm{km s^{-1}}$ respectively, and the
peculiar velocity of the two clumps suggests that they will merge into a single
more massive cluster. A segregation in the star formation activity of the
member galaxies is observed. All star forming galaxies are located outside the
high-density peaks, which are populated only by passive galaxies. A population
of red galaxies (belonging to the cluster red sequence) with clear
post-starburst spectral features and [OII] ($\lambda$3727) emission lines is
observed in the outskirts of the cluster. Two AGNs, which were previously
confused with the diffuse X-ray emission from the intracluster medium in ROSAT
and BeppoSAX observations, are found to be cluster members.