Extensive observations of comet 260P (McNaught) were carried out between
August 2012 and January 2013. The images obtained were used to analyze the
inner coma morphology of the comet at resolutions ranging from 250 to about
1000 km/pixel. A deep investigation of the dust features in the inner coma
allowed us to identify only a single main active source on the nucleus of the
comet, at an estimated latitude of -50 deg +/-15 deg. A thorough analysis of
the appearance and of the motion of the morphological structures, supported by
graphic simulations of the geometrical conditions of the observations, allowed
us to determine a pole orientation located within a circular spot of a 15
deg-radius centered at RA=60 deg, Dec=0 deg. The rotation of the nucleus seems
to occur on a single axis and is not chaotic, furthermore no precession effects
could be estimated from our measurements. The comet's spin axis never reached
the plane of the sky from October 2012 to January 2013; during this period it
did not change its direction significantly (less than 30 deg), thus giving us
the opportunity to observe mainly structures such as bow-shaped jets departing
from the single active source located on the comet's nucleus. Only during the
months of August 2012 and January 2013 the polar axis was directed towards the
Earth at an angle of about 45 deg from the plane of the sky; this made it
possible to observe the development of faint structures like fragments of
shells or spirals. A possible rotation period of 0.340 +/-0.01 days was
estimated by means of differential photometric analysis.