We present a three-dimensional study of the local (<100 h^-1} kpc) and the
large scale (<1 h^{-1} Mpc) environment of the two main types of Seyfert AGN
galaxies. For this purpose we use 48 Sy1 galaxies (with redshifts in the range
0.007<z<0.036) and 56 Sy2 galaxies (with 0.004<z<0.020), located at high
galactic latitudes, as well as two control samples of non-active galaxies
having the same morphological, redshift, and diameter size distributions as the
corresponding Seyfert samples. Using the Center for Astrophysics (CfA2) and
Southern Sky Redshift Survey (SSRS) galaxy catalogues (m_B~15.5) and our own
spectroscopic observations (m_B~18.5), we find that within a projected distance
of 100 h^-1 kpc and a radial velocity separation of dv<600 km/sec around each
of our AGNs, the fraction of Seyfert 2 galaxies with a close neighbor is
significantly higher than that of their control (especially within 75 h^{-1}
kpc) and Seyfert 1 galaxy samples, confirming a previous two-dimensional
analysis of Dultzin-Hacyan et al. We also find that the large-scale environment
around the two types of Seyfert galaxies does not vary with respect to their
control sample galaxies. However, in the Seyfert 2 and control galaxy samples
do differ significantly when compared to the corresponding Seyfert 1 samples.
Since the main difference between these samples is their morphological type
distribution, we argue that the large-scale environmental difference cannot be
attributed to differences in nuclear activity but rather to their different
type of host galaxies.