Galaxy clusters grow by a sequence of mergers with other clusters and galaxy
groups. During these mergers, shocks and/or turbulence are created within the
intracluster medium (ICM). In this process, particles could be accelerated to
highly relativistic energies. The synchrotron radiation from these particles is
observed in the form of radio relics and halos that are generally characterized
by a steep radio spectral index. Shocks can also revive fossil radio plasma
from a previous episode of AGN activity, creating a so-called radio phoenix.
Here we present multi-frequency radio observations of diffuse steep-spectrum
radio sources selected from the 74 MHz VLSS survey. Previous GMRT observations
showed that some of these sources had filamentary and elongated morphologies,
which are expected for radio relics.
  We carried out radio continuum observations at 325 MHz with the GMRT.
Observations with the VLA and WSRT were taken at 1.4 GHz in full polarization
mode. Optical images around the radio sources were taken with the WHT and INT
telescopes. Most of the sources in our sample consist of old radio plasma from
AGNs located in small galaxy clusters. The sources can be classified as AGN
relics or radio phoenices. The spectral indices across most of the radio
sources display large variations. We conclude that diffuse steep-spectrum radio
sources are not only found in massive X-ray luminous galaxy clusters but also
in smaller systems. Future low-frequency surveys will uncover large numbers of
steep-spectrum radio relics related to previous episodes of AGN activity.
[abridged]