A high-power acoustic sensor, capable of detecting and tracking persons
through steel walls of cargo containers, trailer truck bodies, and train cars,
has been developed and demonstrated. The sensor is based on a new concept for
narrowband mechanical-impact acoustic transmitters and matched resonant
receivers. The lightweight, compact, and low-cost transmitters produce
high-power acoustic pulses at one or more discrete frequencies with little
input power. The energy for each pulse is accumulated over long times at low
powers, like a mousetrap, and therefore can be operated with ordinary batteries
and no power conditioning. A breadboard impact-transmitter and matched-receiver
system that detected human motion through thick walls with only rudimentary
signal processing is described, and results are presented. A conceptual design
is presented of an acoustic through-the-wall sensor, costing about $10,000 per
unit and capable of remotely and non-intrusively scanning steel cargo
containers for stowaways at a rate of two containers per minute. Advantages of
acoustic through-the-wall sensors over radar are: Sound penetrates metal walls;
and acoustic sensors are sensitive to small and slow motions, and so can detect
stationary persons by breathing motion alone. Other attractive features
include: high-resolution locating and tracking; portability; low cost; quick
and easy preparation and deployment; and near-real-time data processing and
display. These features provide a robust stand-alone through-the-wall
surveillance capability or an excellent complement to a radar sensor.