Huge numbers of short reads are being generated for mapping back to the
genome to discover the frequency of transcripts, miRNAs, DNAase hypersensitive
sites, FAIRE regions, nucleosome occupancy, etc. Since these reads are
typically short (e.g., 36 base pairs) and since many eukaryotic genomes,
including humans, have highly repetitive sequences then many of these reads map
to two or more locations in the genome. Current mapping of these reads, grading
them according to 0, 1 or 2 mismatches wastes a great deal of information.
These short sequences are typically mapped with no account of the accuracy of
the sequence, even in company software when per base error rates are being
reported by another part of the machine. Further, multiply mapping locations
are frequently discarded altogether or allocated with no regard to where other
reads are accumulating. Here we show how to combine probabilistic mapping of
reads with an EM algorithm to iteratively improve the empirical likelihood of
the allocation of short reads. Mapping using LAST takes into account the per
base accuracy of the read, plus insertions and deletions, plus anticipated
occasional errors or SNPs with respect to the parent genome. The probabilistic
EM algorithm iteratively allocates reads based on the proportion of reads
mapping within windows on the previous cycle, along with any prior information
on where the read best maps. The methods are illustrated with FAIRE ENCODE data
looking at the very important head-to-head gene combination of TP53 and WRAP
53.