We study the directional properties of a radiation field emitted by a
geometrically small system composed of two identical two-level emitters located
at short distances and driven by an optical vortex beam, a Laguerre-Gaussian
beam which possesses a structured phase and amplitude. We find that the system
may operate as a nanoantenna for controlled and tunable directional emission.
Polar diagrams of the radiation intensity are presented showing that a constant
phase or amplitude difference at the positions of the emitters plays an
essential role in the directivity of the emission. We find that the radiation
patterns may differ dramatically for different phase and amplitude differences
at the positions of the emitters. As a result the system may operate as a two-
or one-sided nanoantenna. In particular, a two-sided highly focused directional
emission can be achieved when the emitters experience the same amplitude and a
constant phase difference of the driving field. We find a general directional
property of the emitted field that when the phase differences at the positions
of the emitters equal an even multiple of \pi/4, the system behaves as a
two-sided antenna. When the phase difference equals an odd multiple of \pi/4,
the system behaves as an one-sided antenna. The case when the emitters
experience the same phase but different amplitudes of the driving field is also
considered and it is found that the effect of different amplitudes is to cause
the system to behave as a uni-directional antenna radiating along the
interatomic axis.