The Chandra Source Catalog (CSC) is a general purpose virtual X-ray
astrophysics facility that provides access to a carefully selected set of
generally useful quantities for individual X-ray sources, and is designed to
satisfy the needs of a broad-based group of scientists, including those who may
be less familiar with astronomical data analysis in the X-ray regime. The first
release of the CSC includes information about 94,676 distinct X-ray sources
detected in a subset of public ACIS imaging observations from roughly the first
eight years of the Chandra mission. This release of the catalog includes point
and compact sources with observed spatial extents <~ 30''. The catalog (1)
provides access to the best estimates of the X-ray source properties for
detected sources, with good scientific fidelity, and directly supports
scientific analysis using the individual source data; (2) facilitates analysis
of a wide range of statistical properties for classes of X-ray sources; and (3)
provides efficient access to calibrated observational data and ancillary data
products for individual X-ray sources, so that users can perform detailed
further analysis using existing tools. The catalog includes real X-ray sources
detected with flux estimates that are at least 3 times their estimated 1 sigma
uncertainties in at least one energy band, while maintaining the number of
spurious sources at a level of <~ 1 false source per field for a 100 ks
observation. For each detected source, the CSC provides commonly tabulated
quantities, including source position, extent, multi-band fluxes, hardness
ratios, and variability statistics, derived from the observations in which the
source is detected. In addition to these traditional catalog elements, for each
X-ray source the CSC includes an extensive set of file-based data products that
can be manipulated interactively.