Many popular location-based social networks (LBSNs) support built-in
location-based social discovery with hundreds of millions of users around the
world. While user (near) realtime geographical information is essential to
enable location-based social discovery in LBSNs, the importance of user
location privacy has also been recognized by leading real-world LBSNs. To
protect user's exact geographical location from being exposed, a number of
location protection approaches have been adopted by the industry so that only
relative location information are publicly disclosed. These techniques are
assumed to be secure and are exercised on the daily base. In this paper, we
question the safety of these location-obfuscation techniques used by existing
LBSNs. We show, for the first time, through real world attacks that they can
all be easily destroyed by an attacker with the capability of no more than a
regular LBSN user. In particular, by manipulating location information fed to
LBSN client app, an ill-intended regular user can easily deduce the exact
location information by running LBSN apps as location oracle and performing a
series of attacking strategies. We develop an automated user location tracking
system and test it on the most popular LBSNs including Wechat, Skout and Momo.
We demonstrate its effectiveness and efficiency via a 3 week real-world
experiment with 30 volunteers. Our evaluation results show that we could
geo-locate a target with high accuracy and can readily recover users' Top 5
locations. We also propose to use grid reference system and location
classification to mitigate the attacks. Our work shows that the current
industrial best practices on user location privacy protection are completely
broken, and it is critical to address this immediate threat.