We study the effect of oblateness up to $J_4$ of the primaries and power-law
density profile (PDP) on the linear stability of libration location of an
infinitesimal mass within the framework of restricted three body problem
(R3BP), by using a more realistic model in which a disc with PDP is rotating
around the common center of the system mass with perturbed mean motion. The
existence and stability of triangular equilibrium points have been explored. It
has been shown that triangular equilibrium points are stable for $0<\mu<\mu_c$
and unstable for $\mu_c\leq\mu\leq1/2$, where $\mu_c$ denotes the critical mass
parameter. It has been found that, the oblateness up to $J_2$ of the primaries
and the radiation reduces the stability range while the oblateness up to $J_4$
of the primaries increases the size of stability both in the regime where PDP
is considered and ignored. The PDP has an effect of about $\approx0.01$
reduction on the application of $\mu_c$ to Earth-Moon and Jupiter-Moons
systems. In the limiting case $c=0$, and also by setting appropriate
parameter(s) to zero, our results are in excellent agreement with those
obtained previously. Libration points play a very important role in space
mission and as a consequence, our results have a practical application in space
dynamics and related areas. The model may be applied to study the navigation
and stationkeeping operations of spacecraft (infinitesimal mass) around the
Jupiter (more massive) -Callisto (less massive) system, where PDP account for
circumsolar ring of asteroidal dust, which has a cloud of dust permanently in
its wake.