A filament disappearance event was observed on 22 May 2008 during our recent
campaign JOP 178. The filament, situated in the southern hemisphere, showed
sinistral chirality consistent with the hemispheric rule. The event was well
observed by several observatories in particular by THEMIS. One day before the
disappearance, H$\alpha$ observations showed up and down flows in adjacent
locations along the filament, which suggest plasma motions along twisted flux
rope. THEMIS and GONG observations show shearing photospheric motions leading
to magnetic flux canceling around barbs. STEREO A, B spacecraft with separation
angle 52.4 degrees, showed quite different views of this untwisting flux rope
in He II 304 \AA\ images. Here, we reconstruct the 3D geometry of the filament
during its eruption phase using STEREO EUV He II 304 \AA\ images and find that
the filament was highly inclined to the solar normal. The He II 304 \AA\ movies
show individual threads, which oscillate and rise to an altitude of about 120
Mm with apparent velocities of about 100 km s$^{-1}$, during the rapid
evolution phase. Finally, as the flux rope expands into the corona, the
filament disappears by becoming optically thin to undetectable levels. No CME
was detected by STEREO, only a faint CME was recorded by LASCO at the beginning
of the disappearance phase at 02:00 UT, which could be due to partial filament
eruption. Further, STEREO Fe XII 195 \AA\ images showed bright loops beneath
the filament prior to the disappearance phase, suggesting magnetic reconnection
below the flux rope.