Several researchers have previously identified a severe climatic upheaval in
tropical North Africa that began just over 4000 years ago and lasted for about
three centuries. The upheaval is known to have occurred shortly after a
volcanic eruption, and companion work proposes that this eruption was colossal.
Here, we suggest how the eruption acted as a trigger for the upheaval: by
forcing changes in ocean circulation; although the initial (atmospheric)
forcing lasted only a few years, the ocean required three centuries to regain
equilibrium. The suggested triggering mechanism is supported by
palaeoceanographic, palaeoecological, and archaeo-historical data and by
related experiments with a (coupled general-circulation) climate model. We
argue that the changes in ocean circulation forced changes in sea-surface
temperatures that led to a weakening of the south-west North African monsoon.
The upheaval has been proposed to have also encompassed south-western Asia. We
argue that it encompassed most of the Northern Hemisphere: we present a variety
of palaeoecological and palaeoceanographic evidence and describe the principal
underlying climatology. In some areas the upheaval was the most severe since
the ice ages. The full scope of the upheaval has previously been missed in part
because radiocarbon dates from some areas are centuries too early:
palaeoclimatic events in different areas thus appeared asynchronous. (The
erroneous radiocarbon dates also misled searches seeking ice-core and tree-ring
evidence of the eruption.) The cause of the radiocarbon-dating disparities is
identified as a regional deficiency in 14C, and we locate the region's source
of 14C-deficient carbon.