In this paper we discuss the photometric and spectroscopic observations of
newly discovered (symbiotic) systems in the dwarf spheroidal galaxy NGC 205.
The Gemini Multi-Object Spectrograph on-off band [O III] 5007 A emission
imaging highlighted several [O III] line emitters, for which optical spectra
were then obtained (Gon\c{c}alves et al. 2014). The detailed study of the
spectra of three objects allow us to identify them as true, likely and possible
symbiotic systems (SySts), the first ones discovered in this galaxy. SySt-1 is
unambiguously classified as a symbiotic star, because of the presence of unique
emission lines which belong only to symbiotic spectra, the well known O VI
Raman scattered lines. SySt-2 is only possibly a SySt because the Ne VII Raman
scattered line at 4881 A, recently identified in a well studied Galactic
symbiotic as another very conspicuous property of symbiotic, could as well be
identified as N III or [Fe III]. Finally, SySt-3 is likely a symbiotic binary
because in the red part of the spectrum it shows the continuum of a late giant,
and forbidden lines of moderate- to high-ionization, like [Fe v] 4180 A. The
main source for skepticism on the symbiotic nature of the latter systems is
their location in the PN region in the [O III] 4363/H\gamma\ vs [O III]
5007/H\beta\ diagnostic diagram (Gutierrez-Moreno et al. 1995). It is worth
mentioning that at least another two confirmed symbiotics, one of the Local
Group dwarf spheroidal IC 10 and the other of the Galaxy, are also misplaced in
this diagram.