The Universal Interface Software(UIS) Protocol was a Theater Missile Defense
Gateway Protocol which linked the Strategic Defense Initiative(SDI)
Architecture Killer Satellite Software Protocol to the National Test Bed
Simulation Software Protocol to enable neural network shock loop operation when
ICBMS were approaching the SDI Shield. A Gateway Software is required for
Homeland Defense and Security Systems to communicate the sensor information
from hardware and software boxes at airports and government buildings and other
locations to the Global Information Grid(GIG). Therefore, a Homeland Defense
and Security UIS(HDSUIS) Protocol is achieved by UIS conversion to HDSUIS for
Thresholds Stabilization and GIG and terrorist sensor Enhancements, Homeland
Defense and Security Lagrangian equation and GIG simulation facility timing
chart Alterations, and two Catastrophe Theory Protocol Attachments to the UIS
Geometric software structure inner cube. This UIS Protocol conversion to the
HDSUIS Protocol will track and provide a Congestion Controlled, i.e.,prevention
of deadlock and livelock, communication of (1) Shoe bombers and copycat shoe
bombers, (2) deeply buried and imbedded boxes with explosives, (3) damage to
lase1 equipment, (4) shoulder missile fired armament, and (5) surface to air
missiles from their sensor equipment to the Global Information Grid with
Theater Missile Defense Characteristics. The Homeland Defense and Security
GNNO(Geometric Neural Network Overlay) Protocol will be derived as a conversion
of the UIS GNNO Protocol.