We compare the galaxy populations in superclusters of different morphology in
the nearby Universe (180 < d < 270 Mpc) to see whether the inner structure and
overall morphology of superclusters are important in shaping galaxy properties
in superclusters. Supercluster morphology has been found with Minkowski
functionals. We analyse the probability density distributions of colours,
morphological types, stellar masses, star formation rates (SFR) of galaxies,
and the peculiar velocities of the main galaxies in groups in superclusters of
filament and spider types, and in the field. We show that the fraction of red,
early-type, low SFR galaxies in filament-type superclusters is higher than in
spider-type superclusters; in low-density global environments their fraction is
lower than in superclusters. In all environments the fraction of red, high
stellar mass, and low SFR galaxies in rich groups is higher than in poor
groups. In superclusters of spider morphology red, high SFR galaxies have
higher stellar masses than in filament-type superclusters. Groups of equal
richness host galaxies with larger stellar masses, a larger fraction of
early-type and red galaxies, and a higher fraction of low SFR galaxies, if they
are located in superclusters of filament morphology. The peculiar velocities of
the main galaxies in groups from superclusters of filament morphology are
higher than in those of spider morphology. Groups with higher peculiar
velocities of their main galaxies in filament-type superclusters are located in
higher density environment than those with low peculiar velocities. There are
significant differences between galaxy populations of the individual richest
superclusters. Therefore both local (group) and global (supercluster)
environments and even supercluster morphology play an important role in the
formation and evolution of galaxies.