In this work we present results of a recent re-evaluation of airborne
magnetometric and gamma spectrometric data of the uranium province of Lagoa
Real (BA), acquired under the project S\~ao Timoteo. The main purpose is to
provide new insights into the magnetic and radiometric characteristics of the
structural units in this region, derived from a careful analysis of the
aeromagnetic and radiometric data of the study area. We provide details of the
correction and interpretation procedures employed in data processing. A
remarkable feature of the present work has been the judicious use of such
interpretation techniques as the vertical derivative, analytic signal and Euler
de-convolution, which have lead to identification of a large number of
lineaments and basement features in the study area, not identified in previous
studies. Prominent among these are the NW-SE trending lineaments in the
northern parts, arc shaped features in the west-central parts and circular
features in the south and south-western parts of the Lagoa Real province. There
are indications that changes in direction of the lineaments are associated with
fracture zones, associated with Uranium mineralization processes. Most of the
bodies with magnetic contrasts are located at depths less than 500 meters, but
there also a number of bodies at depths extending up to depths of 1500m. The
results have also allowed determination of a number of structural features not
identified in geologic studies as well as in previous interpretations of
aeromagnetic data. Joint interpretation of magnetic and gamma spectrometric
data have allowed identification of uranium mineralization zones, associated
with local metasomatic processes. We conclude that the results obtained are in
good agreement with the local structural framework inferred from geologic
studies, but significantly different from those reported in earlier studies.