Captures of stellar-mass compact objects (COs) by massive ($\sim 10^6
M_\odot$) black holes (MBHs) are potentially an important source for LISA, the
proposed space-based gravitational-wave (GW) detector. The orbits of the
inspiraling COs are highly complicated; they can remain rather eccentric up
until the final plunge, and display extreme versions of relativistic perihelion
precession and Lense-Thirring precession of the orbital plane. The strongest
capture signals will be ~10 times weaker than LISA's instrumental noise, but in
principle (with sufficient computing power) they can be disentangled from the
noise by matched filtering. The associated template waveforms are not yet in
hand, but theorists will very likely be able to provide them before LISA
launches. Here we introduce a family of approximate (post-Newtonian) capture
waveforms, given in (nearly) analytic form, for use in advancing LISA studies
until more accurate versions are available. Our model waveforms include most of
the key qualitative features of true waveforms, and cover the full space of
capture-event parameters (including orbital eccentricity and the MBH's spin).
Here we use our approximate waveforms to (i) estimate the relative
contributions of different harmonics (of the orbital frequency) to the total
signal-to-noise ratio, and (ii) estimate the accuracy with which LISA will be
able to extract the physical parameters of the capture event from the measured
waveform. For a typical source (a $10 M_\odot$ CO captured by a $10^6 M_\odot$
MBH at a signal-to-noise ratio of 30), we find that LISA can determine the MBH
and CO masses to within a fractional error of $\sim 10^{-4}$, measure $S/M^2$
(where $S$ and $M$ are the MBH's mass and spin) to within $\sim 10^{-4}$, and
determine the sky location of the source to within $\sim 10^{-3}$ stradians.