An air cargo inspection system combining two nuclear reaction based
techniques, namely Fast-Neutron Resonance Radiography and Dual-Discrete-Energy
Gamma Radiography is currently being developed. This system is expected to
allow detection of standard and improvised explosives as well as special
nuclear materials. An important aspect for the applicability of nuclear
techniques in an airport inspection facility is the inventory and lifetimes of
radioactive isotopes produced by the neutron and gamma radiation inside the
cargo, as well as the dose delivered by these isotopes to people in contact
with the cargo during and following the interrogation procedure. Using MCNPX
and CINDER90 we have calculated the activation levels for several typical
inspection scenarios. One example is the activation of various metal samples
embedded in a cotton-filled container. To validate the simulation results, a
benchmark experiment was performed, in which metal samples were activated by
fast-neutrons in a water-filled glass jar. The induced activity was determined
by analyzing the gamma spectra. Based on the calculated radioactive inventory
in the container, the dose levels due to the induced gamma radiation were
calculated at several distances from the container and in relevant time windows
after the irradiation, in order to evaluate the radiation exposure of the cargo
handling staff, air crew and passengers during flight. The possibility of
remanent long-lived radioactive inventory after cargo is delivered to the
client is also of concern and was evaluated.