A new operational, ensemble-based search and rescue model for the Norwegian
Sea and the North Sea is presented. The stochastic trajectory model computes
the net motion of a range of search and rescue objects. A new, robust
formulation for the relation between the wind and the motion of the drifting
object (termed the leeway of the object) is employed. Empirically derived
coefficients for 63 categories of search objects compiled by the US Coast Guard
are ingested to estimate the leeway of the drifting objects. A Monte Carlo
technique is employed to generate an ensemble that accounts for the
uncertainties in forcing fields (wind and current), leeway drift properties,
and the initial position of the search object. The ensemble yields an estimate
of the time-evolving probability density function of the location of the search
object, and its envelope defines the search area. Forcing fields from the
operational oceanic and atmospheric forecast system of The Norwegian
Meteorological Institute are used as input to the trajectory model. This allows
for the first time high-resolution wind and current fields to be used to
forecast search areas up to 60 hours into the future. A limited set of field
exercises show good agreement between model trajectories, search areas, and
observed trajectories for liferafts and other search objects. Comparison with
older methods shows that search areas expand much more slowly using the new
ensemble method with high resolution forcing fields and the new leeway
formulation. It is found that going to higher-order stochastic trajectory
models will not significantly improve the forecast skill and the rate of
expansion of search areas.