We investigate the interfacial phase behavior of a binary fluid mixture
composed of repulsive point Yukawa particles. Using a simple approximation for
the Helmholtz free energy functional, which yields the random phase
approximation (RPA) for the pair direct correlation functions, we calculate the
equilibrium fluid density profiles of the two species of particles adsorbed at
a planar wall. We show that for a particular choice (repulsive exponential) of
the wall potentials and the fluid pair-potential parameters, the Euler-Lagrange
equations for the equilibrium fluid density profiles may be transformed into a
single ordinary differential equation and the profiles obtained by a simple
quadrature. For certain other choices of the fluid pair-potential parameters
fluid-fluid phase separation of the bulk fluid is observed. We find that when
such a mixture is exposed to a planar hard-wall, the fluid exhibits complete
wetting on the species 2 poor side of the binodal, i.e. we observe a thick film
of fluid rich in species 2 adsorbed at the hard-wall. The thickness of the
wetting film grows logarithmically with the concentration difference between
the fluid state-point and the binodal and is proportional to the bulk
correlation length of the intruding (wetting) fluid phase. However, for state
points on the binodal that are further from the critical point, we find there
is no thick wetting film. We determine the accompanying line of first-order
(pre-wetting) surface phase transitions which separate a thin and thick
adsorbed film. We show that for some other choices of repulsive wall potentials
the pre-wetting line is still present, but its location and extent in the phase
diagram is strongly dependent on the wall-fluid interaction parameters.