The intrinsically faint M dwarfs are the most numerous stars in the Galaxy,
have main-sequence lifetimes longer than the Hubble time, and host some of the
most interesting planetary systems known to date. Their identification and
classification throughout the Galaxy is crucial to unravel the processes
involved in the formation of planets, stars and the Milky Way. The ESO Public
Survey VVV is a deep near-IR survey mapping the Galactic bulge and southern
plane. The VVV b201 tile, located in the border of the bulge, was specifically
selected for the characterisation of M dwarfs. We used VISTA photometry to
identify M dwarfs in the VVV b201 tile, to estimate their subtypes, and to
search for transit-like light curves from the first 26 epochs of the survey.
UKIDSS photometry from SDSS spectroscopically identified M dwarfs was used to
calculate their expected colours in the $YJHK_s$ VISTA system. A colour-based
spectral subtype calibration was computed. Possible giants were identified by a
$(J-K_s, H_{J})$ reduced proper motion diagram. The light curves of
12.8<$K_s$<15.8 colour-selected M dwarfs were inspected for signals consistent
with transiting objects. We identified 23,345 objects in VVV b201 with colours
consistent with M dwarfs. We provided their spectral types and photometric
distances, up to $\sim$ 300 pc for M9s and $\sim$ 1.2 kpc for M4s, from
photometry. In the range 12<$K_s$<16, we identified 753 stars as possible
giants out of 9,232 M dwarf candidates. While only the first 26 epochs of VVV
were available, and 1 epoch was excluded, we were already able to identify
transit-like signals in the light curves of 95 M dwarfs and of 12 possible
giants. Thanks to its deeper photometry ($\sim$4 magnitudes deeper than 2MASS),
the VVV survey will be a major contributor to the discovery and study of M
dwarfs and possible companions towards the center of the Milky Way.