In the eighteenth century, the magnitude of the speed of light was first
determined and proven to be finite against the contemporary view, independently
by Ole Romer and Bradley. Einstein in the post-Maxwellian era, sensed that the
tide of discoveries in electro-magnetism indicated a decline of the mechanical
view, and replaced Newton's three absolutes -- mass, time and space, with a
single one, the speed of light, which thus gained a more important status
amongst the fundamental constants of nature. In 1849, Fizeau performed the
first successful measurement of the speed of light using an earthbound
apparatus. Many earthbound experiments were conducted later for determination
of its magnitude till 1983, when it was frozen at a fixed value after
determining it at an accuracy level of a fraction of a meter per second. More
than half a century before the advent of space age, when perhaps it was
unconceivable to do experiments for its determination in laboratories beyond
the earth, Einstein had to adopt its terrestrial value to be the limiting speed
of all natural phenomena, while formulating his relativity theories. Einstein
later stated that light rays could curve only when its velocity of propagation
varied with position. Many experiments have been conducted to prove light
deflection to improved levels of precision, but none so far to determine the
speed of light at locations closer to sun. To verify important aspects of
general relativity, NASA had commendably planned many costly experiments, and
hence, can now be expected to expeditiously plan and execute a low cost
experiment proposed here, so as to verify the effect of solar gravitational
field on the speed of light.