With the advance of industrial mass production, modern micro-electronics and
computers, the intervals between the release of new generations of consumer
products have been dramatically reduced and so have their lifetime cycles.
While it was very natural in the post-war era, that sophisticated consumer
products like television sets and stereo equipment would not be replaced with a
new product until they break, and usually beyond that point since it was very
common to have a broken television set serviced, the habits of consumers have
changed during the last quarter of the 20th century.
  A modern consumer product, like Apple's famous iPhone has a market life of
approximately one year until a successor is announced and subsequently pushed
into the market. Usually these new generations bring a bunch of new features,
have a higher performance while maintaining the price or becoming even cheaper,
thus the consumer greatly benefits from the reduced lifetime cycle of these
products.
  However, electronic devices not only require a lot of of Earth's limited
resources for their production, but their production processes are a major
source for harmful climate gases like carbon dioxide and toxic waste like heavy
metal alloys, acids and alkalis. And last but not least is every obsoleted
iPhone a candidate for waste facilities unless consumers are going to sell them
on the second hand market.
  While we can not expect consumers and manufacturers to go back to the early
days of consumer products where lifetime cycles reached up to 20 years, the
world record being the famous "Centennial Lightbulb" in Livermore, CA in the
US, which has been lit for over 100 years, it is certainly about time to
rethink modern consumerism with regard to responsibility to future generations.