The widespread usage of wireless local area networks and mobile devices has
fostered the interest in localization systems for wireless environments. The
majority of research in the context of wireless-based localization systems has
focused on device-based active localization, in which a device is attached to
tracked entities. Recently, device-free passive localization (DfP) has been
proposed where the tracked entity is neither required to carry devices nor
participate actively in the localization process. DfP systems are based on the
fact that RF signals are affected by the presence of people and objects in the
environment. The DfP concept enables a wide range of applications including
intrusion detection and tracking, border protection, and smart buildings
automation. Previous studies have focused on small areas with direct line of
sight and/or controlled environments. In this paper, we present the design,
implementation and analysis of Nuzzer, a large-scale device-free passive
localization system for real environments.
  Without any additional hardware, it makes use of the already installed
wireless data networks to monitor and process changes in the received signal
strength (RSS) transmitted from access points at one or more monitoring points.
We present probabilistic techniques for DfP localization and evaluate their
performance in a typical office building, rich in multipath, with an area of
1500 square meters. Our results show that the Nuzzer system gives device-free
location estimates with less than 2 meters median distance error using only two
monitoring laptops and three access points. This indicates the suitability of
Nuzzer to a large number of application domains.