We report on multi-wavelength observations of the X-ray transient Narrow Line
Seyfert 1 (NLS1) galaxy WPVS 007. The galaxy was monitored with Swift between
October 2005 and July 2013, after it had undergone a dramatic drop in its X-ray
flux earlier. For the first time, we are able to repeatedly detect this NLS1 in
X-rays again. This increased number of detections in the last couple of years
may suggest that the strong absorber that has been found in this AGN is
starting to become leaky, and may eventually disappear. The X-ray spectra
obtained for WPVS 007 are all consistent with a partial covering absorber
model. A spectrum based on the data during the extreme low X-ray flux states
shows that the absorption column density is of the order of 4 x 10^23 cm^-2
with a covering fraction of 95%. WPVS 007 also displays one of the strongest UV
variabilities seen in Narrow Line Seyfert 1s. The UV continuum variability
anti-correlates with the optical/UV slope alpha-UV which suggests that the
variability primarily may be due to reddening. The UV variability time scales
are consistent with moving dust `clouds' located beyond the dust sublimation
radius of approximately 20 ld. We present for the first time near infrared JHK
data of WPVS 007, which reveal a rich emission-line spectrum. Recent optical
spectroscopy does not indicate significant variability in the broad and FeII
emission lines, implying that the ionizing continuum seen by those gas clouds
has not significantly changed over the last decades. All X-ray and UV
observations are consistent with a scenario in which an evolving Broad
Absorption Line (BAL) flow obscures the continuum emission. As such, WPVS 007
is an important target for our understanding of BAL flows in low-mass active
galactic nuclei (AGN).