We study the emission heights of the coronal bright points (BPs) above the
photosphere in the bipolar magnetic loops that are apparently associated with
them. As BPs are seen in projection against the disk their true emission
heights are unknown. The correlation of the BP locations on the Fe XII radiance
map from EIT with the magnetic field features (in particular neutral lines) was
investigated in detail. The coronal magnetic field was determined by an
extrapolation of the photospheric field to different altitudes above the disk.
It was found that most BPs sit on or near a photospheric neutral line, but that
the emission occurs at a height of about 5 Mm. Some BPs, while being seen in
projection, still seem to coincide with neutral lines, although their emission
takes place at heights of more than 10 Mm. Such coincidences almost disappear
for emissions above 20 Mm. We also projected the upper segments of the 3-D
magnetic field lines above different heights, respectively, on to the x-y
plane. The shape of each BP was compared with the respective field-line segment
nearby. This comparison suggests that most coronal BPs are actually located on
the top of their associated magnetic loops. Finally, we calculated for each
selected BP region the correlation coefficient between the Fe XII intensity
enhancement and the horizontal component of the extrapolated magnetic field
vector at the same x-y position in planes of different heights, respectively.
We found that for almost all the BP regions we studied the correlation
coefficient, with increasing height, increases to a maximal value and then
decreases again. The height corresponding to this maximum was defined as the
correlation height, which for most bright points was found to range below 20
Mm.