Single molecule mechanical unfolding experiments are beginning to provide
profiles of the complex energy landscape of biomolecules. In order to obtain
reliable estimates of the energy landscape characteristics it is necessary to
combine the experimental measurements with sound theoretical models and
simulations. Here, we show how by using temperature as a variable in mechanical
unfolding of biomolecules in laser optical tweezer or AFM experiments the
roughness of the energy landscape can be measured without making any
assumptions about the underlying reaction oordinate. The efficacy of the
formalism is illustrated by reviewing experimental results that have directly
measured roughness in a protein-protein complex. The roughness model can also
be used to interpret experiments on forced-unfolding of proteins in which
temperature is varied. Estimates of other aspects of the energy landscape such
as free energy barriers or the transition state (TS) locations could depend on
the precise model used to analyze the experimental data. We illustrate the
inherent difficulties in obtaining the transition state location from loading
rate or force-dependent unfolding rates. Because the transition state moves as
the force or the loading rate is varied it is in general difficult to invert
the experimental data unless the curvature at the top of the one dimensional
free energy profile is large, i.e the barrier is sharp. The independence of the
TS location on force holds good only for brittle or hard biomolecules whereas
the TS location changes considerably if the molecule is soft or plastic. We
also comment on the usefulness of extension of the molecule as a surrogate
reaction coordinate especially in the context of force-quench refolding of
proteins and RNA.