We study a tractable opinion dynamics model that generates long-run
disagreements and persistent opinion fluctuations. Our model involves an
inhomogeneous stochastic gossip process of continuous opinion dynamics in a
society consisting of two types of agents: regular agents, who update their
beliefs according to information that they receive from their social neighbors;
and stubborn agents, who never update their opinions. When the society contains
stubborn agents with different opinions, the belief dynamics never lead to a
consensus (among the regular agents). Instead, beliefs in the society fail to
converge almost surely, the belief profile keeps on fluctuating in an ergodic
fashion, and it converges in law to a non-degenerate random vector. The
structure of the network and the location of the stubborn agents within it
shape the opinion dynamics. The expected belief vector evolves according to an
ordinary differential equation coinciding with the Kolmogorov backward equation
of a continuous-time Markov chain with absorbing states corresponding to the
stubborn agents and converges to a harmonic vector, with every regular agent's
value being the weighted average of its neighbors' values, and boundary
conditions corresponding to the stubborn agents'. Expected cross-products of
the agents' beliefs allow for a similar characterization in terms of coupled
Markov chains on the network. We prove that, in large-scale societies which are
highly fluid, meaning that the product of the mixing time of the Markov chain
on the graph describing the social network and the relative size of the
linkages to stubborn agents vanishes as the population size grows large, a
condition of \emph{homogeneous influence} emerges, whereby the stationary
beliefs' marginal distributions of most of the regular agents have
approximately equal first and second moments.