The Lyman continuum (LyC) flux escaping from high-z galaxies into the IGM is
a fundamental quantity to understand the physical processes involved in the
reionization epoch. We have investigated a sample of star-forming galaxies at
z~3.3 in order to search for possible detections of LyC photons escaping from
galaxy halos. UV deep imaging in the COSMOS field obtained with the prime focus
camera LBC at the LBT telescope was used together with a catalog of
spectroscopic redshifts obtained by the VIMOS Ultra Deep Survey (VUDS) to build
a sample of 45 galaxies at z~3.3 with L>0.5L*. We obtained deep LBC images of
galaxies with spectroscopic redshifts in the interval 3.27<z<3.40 both in the R
and deep U bands. A sub-sample of 10 galaxies apparently shows escape
fractions>28% but a detailed analysis of their properties reveals that, with
the exception of two marginal detections (S/N~2) in the U band, all the other 8
galaxies are most likely contaminated by the UV flux of low-z interlopers
located close to the high-z targets. The average escape fraction derived from
the stacking of the cleaned sample was constrained to fesc_rel<2%. The implied
HI photo-ionization rate is a factor two lower than that needed to keep the IGM
ionized at z~3, as observed in the Lyman forest of high-z QSO spectra or by the
proximity effect. These results support a scenario where high redshift,
relatively bright (L>0.5L*) star-forming galaxies alone are unable to sustain
the level of ionization observed in the cosmic IGM at z~3. Star-forming
galaxies at higher redshift and at fainter luminosities (L<<L*) can be the
major contributors to the reionization of the Universe only if their physical
properties are subject to rapid changes from z~3 to z~6-10. Alternatively,
ionizing sources could be discovered looking for fainter sources among the AGN
population at high-z.