We present a detailed three-dimensional radiative-hydrodynamical simulation
of the well known irradiated exoplanet HD189733b. Our model solves the fully
compressible Navier-Stokes equations coupled to wavelength-dependent radiative
transfer throughout the entire planetary envelope. We provide detailed
comparisons between the extensive observations of this system and predictions
calculated directly from the numerical models. The atmospheric dynamics is
characterized by supersonic winds that fairly efficiently advect energy from
the dayside to the nightside. Super-rotating equatorial jets form for a wide
range of pressures from 10^-5 to 10 bars while counter rotating jets form at
higher latitudes. Calculated transit spectrum agree well with the data from the
infrared to the UV including the strong Rayleigh scattering seen at short
wavelength, though we slightly under-predict the observations at wavelengths
shorter then ~0.6 microns. Our predicted emission spectrum agrees remarkably
well at 5.8 and 8 microns, but slightly over-predicts the emission at 3.6 and
4.5 microns when compared to the latest analysis by Knutson et. al (2012). Our
simulated IRAC phasecurves agree fairly well with the amplitudes of variations,
shape, and phases of minimum and maximum flux. However, we over-predict the
peak amplitude at 3.6 and 4.5 microns, and slightly under-predict the location
of the phasecurve maximum and minimum. These simulations include, for the first
time in a multi-dimensional simulation, a strong Rayleigh scattering component
to the absorption opacity, necessary to explain observations in the optical and
UV. The agreement between our models and observations suggest that including
the effects of condensates in simulations as the dominant form of opacity will
be very important in future models.