Fukui et al. (2006) discovered two huge molecular loops in the Galactic
center located in (l, b) ~ (355 deg-359 deg, 0 deg-2 deg) in a large velocity
range of -180-40 km s^-1. Following the discovery, we present detailed
observational properties of the two loops based on NANTEN 12CO(J=1-0) and
13CO(J=1-0) datasets at 10 pc resolution including a complete set of velocity
channel distributions and comparisons with HI and dust emissions as well as
with the other broad molecular features. We find new features on smaller scales
in the loops including helical distributions in the loop tops and vertical
spurs. The loops have counterparts of the HI gas indicating that the loops
include atomic gas. The IRAS far infrared emission is also associated with the
loops and was used to derive an X-factor of 0.7(+/-0.1){\times}10^20 cm^-2 (K
km s^-1)^-1 to convert the 12CO intensity into the total molecular hydrogen
column density. From the 12CO, 13CO, H I and dust datasets we estimated the
total mass of loops 1 and 2 to be ~1.4 {\times} 106 Msun and ~1.9 {\times} 10^6
Msun, respectively, where the H I mass corresponds to ~10-20% of the total mass
and the total kinetic energy of the two loops to be ~10^52 ergs. An analysis of
the kinematics of the loops yields that the loops are rotating at ~47 km s-1
and expanding at ~141 km s^-1 at a radius of 670 pc from the center. Fukui et
al. (2006) presented a model that the loops are created by the magnetic
flotation due to the Parker instability with an estimated magnetic field
strength of ~150 {\mu}G. We present comparisons with the recent numerical
simulations of the magnetized nuclear disk by Machida et al. (2009) and
Takahashi et al. (2009) and show that the theoretical results are in good
agreements with the observations. The helical distributions also suggest that
some magnetic instability plays a role similarly to the solar helical features.