We have selected a sample of 88 nearby (z<0.1) galaxy clusters from the
SDSS-DR4 with redshift information for the cluster members. We have derived
global properties for each cluster, such as their mean recessional velocity,
velocity dispersion, and virial radii. Cluster galaxies have been grouped in
two families according to their $u-r$ colours. The total sample consists of
10865 galaxies. As expected, the highest fraction of galaxies (62%) turned to
be early-type (red) ones, being located at smaller distances from the cluster
centre and showing lower velocity dispersions than late-type (blue) ones. The
brightest cluster galaxies are located in the innermost regions and show the
smallest velocity dispersions. Early-type galaxies also show constant velocity
dispersion profiles inside the virial radius and a mild decline in the
outermost regions. In contrast, late-type galaxies show always decreasing
velocity dispersions profiles. No correlation has been found between the
fraction of blue galaxies and cluster global properties, such as cluster
velocity dispersion and galaxy concentration. In contrast, we found correlation
between the X-ray luminosity and the fraction of blue galaxies. These results
indicate that early- and late-type galaxies may have had different evolution.
Thus, blue galaxies are located in more anisotropic and radial orbits than
early-type ones. Their star formation seems to be independent of the cluster
global properties in low mass clusters, but not for the most massive ones.
These observational results suggest that the global environment could be
important for driving the evolution of galaxies in the most massive cluster
($\sigma > 800$ km s$^{-1}$). However, the local environment could play a key
role in galaxy evolution for low mass clusters.