We present new results from high sensitivity GMRT observations of PSR
B0826-34. We provide a model to explain the observed subpulse drift properties
of this pulsar, including the apparent reversals of the drift direction. In
this model, PSR B0826-34 is close to being an aligned rotator. We solve for the
emission geometry of this pulsar and show that the angle between the rotation
and the magnetic axes is less than 5 deg. We see evidence for as many as 6 to 7
drifting bands in the main pulse at 318 MHz, which are part of a circulating
system of about 15 spark-associated subpulse emission beams. We provide
quantitative treatments of the aliasing problem and various effects of
geometry. The observed drift rate is an aliased version of the true drift rate,
such that a subpulse drifts to the location of the adjacent subpulse (or a
multiple thereof) in about one pulsar period. We show that small variations, of
the order of 3-8%, in the mean drift rate are then enough to explain the
apparent reversals of drift direction. We find the mean circulation time of the
drift pattern to be significantly longer than the predictions of the original
RS75 model and propose an explanation for this, based on modified models with
temperature regulated partial ion flow in the polar vacuum gap. From the
variation of the mean subpulse separation across the main pulse window, we show
that the spark pattern is not centred around the dipole axis, but around a
point much closer (within a degree or so) to the rotation axis -- we discuss
the implication of this.