We report on a method, PUSH, for triggering core-collapse supernova
explosions of massive stars in spherical symmetry. We explore basic explosion
properties and calibrate PUSH such that the observables of SN1987A are
reproduced. Our simulations are based on the general relativistic hydrodynamics
code AGILE combined with the detailed neutrino transport scheme IDSA for
electron neutrinos and ALS for the muon and tau neutrinos. To trigger
explosions in the otherwise non-exploding simulations, we rely on the
neutrino-driven mechanism. The PUSH method locally increases the energy
deposition in the gain region through energy deposition by the heavy neutrino
flavors. Our setup allows us to model the explosion for several seconds after
core bounce. We explore the progenitor range 18-21M$_{\odot}$. Our studies
reveal a distinction between high compactness (HC) and low compactness (LC)
progenitor models, where LC models tend to explore earlier, with a lower
explosion energy, and with a lower remnant mass. HC models are needed to obtain
explosion energies around 1 Bethe, as observed for SN1987A. However, all the
models with sufficiently high explosion energy overproduce $^{56}$Ni. We
conclude that fallback is needed to reproduce the observed nucleosynthesis
yields. The nucleosynthesis yields of $^{57-58}$Ni depend sensitively on the
electron fraction and on the location of the mass cut with respect to the
initial shell structure of the progenitor star. We identify a progenitor and a
suitable set of PUSH parameters that fit the explosion properties of SN1987A
when assuming 0.1M$_{\odot}$ of fallback. We predict a neutron star with a
gravitational mass of 1.50M$_{\odot}$. We find correlations between explosion
properties and the compactness of the progenitor model in the explored
progenitors. However, a more complete analysis will require the exploration of
a larger set of progenitors with PUSH.