X-ray absorption lines of highly-ionized species such as OVII at about zero
redshift have been firmly detected in the spectra of several active galactic
nuclei. However, the location of the absorbing gas remains a subject of debate.
To separate the Galactic and extragalactic contributions to the absorption, we
have obtained Chandra LETG-HRC and FUSE observations of the black hole X-ray
binary LMC X--3. A joint analysis of the detected OVII and Ne IX Kalpha lines,
together with the non-detection of the OVII Kbeta and OVIII Kalpha lines, gives
the measurements of the temperature, velocity dispersion, and hot oxygen column
density. The X-ray data also allow us to place a 95% confidence lower limit to
the Ne/O ratio as 0.14. The OVII line centroid and its relative shift from the
Galactic OI Kalpha absorption line, detected in the same observations, are
inconsistent with the systemic velocity of LMC X--3 ($+310 {\rm km s^{-1}}$).
The far-UV spectrum shows OVI absorption at Galactic velocities, but no OVI
absorption is detected at the LMC velocity at $> 3\sigma$ significance. Both
the nonthermal broadening and the decreasing scale height with the increasing
ionization state further suggest an origin of the highly-ionized gas in a
supernova-driven galactic fountain. In addition, we estimate the warm and hot
electron column densities from our detected OVII Kalpha line in the LMC X--3
X-ray spectra and from the dispersion measure of a pulsar in the LMC vicinity.
We then infer the O/H ratio of the gas to be $\gtrsim 8 \times 10^{-5}$,
consistent with the chemically-enriched galactic fountain scenario. We conclude
that the Galactic hot interstellar medium should in general substantially
contribute to zero-redshift X-ray absorption lines in extragalactic sources.