We report new observations of the spectrum of Ganymede in the spectral range
1160 - 1720 A made with the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) on HST
on 1998 October 30. The observations were undertaken to locate the regions of
the atomic oxygen emissions at 1304 and 1356 A, previously observed with the
GHRS on HST, that Hall et al. (1998) claimed indicated the presence of polar
aurorae on Ganymede. The use of the 2" wide STIS slit, slightly wider than the
disk diameter of Ganymede, produced objective spectra with images of the two
oxygen emissions clearly separated. The OI emissions appear in both
hemispheres, at latitudes above 40 degrees, in accordance with recent Galileo
magnetometer data that indicate the presence of an intrinsic magnetic field
such that Jovian magnetic field lines are linked to the surface of Ganymede
only at high latitudes. Both the brightness and relative north-south intensity
of the emissions varied considerably over the four contiguous orbits (5.5
hours) of observation, presumably due to the changing Jovian plasma environment
at Ganymede. However, the observed longitudinal non-uniformity in the emission
brightness at high latitudes, particularly in the southern hemisphere, and the
lack of pronounced limb brightening near the poles are difficult to understand
with current models. In addition to observed solar HI Lyman-alpha reflected
from the disk, extended Lyman-alpha emission resonantly scattered from a
hydrogen exosphere is detected out to beyond two Ganymede radii from the limb,
and its brightness is consistent with the Galileo UVS measurements of Barth et
al. (1997).