Ongoing studies with XMM-Newton have shown that powerful accretion disc
winds, as revealed through highly-ionised Fe\,K-shell absorption at E>=6.7 keV,
are present in a significant fraction of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) in the
local Universe (Tombesi et al. 2010). In Gofford et al. (2013) we analysed a
sample of 51 Suzaku-observed AGN and independently detected Fe K absorption in
~40% of the sample, and we measured the properties of the absorbing gas. In
this work we build upon these results to consider the properties of the
associated wind. On average, the fast winds (v_out>0.01c) are located
<r>~10^{15-18} cm (typically ~10^{2-4} r_s) from their black hole, their mass
outflow rates are of the order <M_out>~0.01-1 Msun/yr or ~(0.01-1) M_edd and
kinetic power is constrained to <L_k> ~10^{43-45} erg/s, equivalent to
~(0.1-10%) L_edd. We find a fundamental correlation between the source
bolometric luminosity and the wind velocity, with v_out \propto L_bol^{\alpha}
and \alpha=0.4^{+0.3}_{-0.2}$ (90% confidence), which indicates that more
luminous AGN tend to harbour faster Fe K winds. The mass outflow rate M_out,
kinetic power L_k and momentum flux P_out of the winds are also consequently
correlated with L_bol, such that more massive and more energetic winds are
present in more luminous AGN. We investigate these properties in the framework
of a continuum-driven wind, showing that the observed relationships are broadly
consistent with a wind being accelerated by continuum-scattering. We find that,
globally, a significant fraction (~85%) of the sample can plausibly exceed the
L_k/L_bol~0.5% threshold thought necessary for feedback, while 45% may also
exceed the less conservative ~5% of L_bol threshold as well. This suggests that
the winds may be energetically significant for AGN--host-galaxy feedback
processes.