The uncertainty in the 29P(p,gamma)30S reaction rate over the temperature
range of 0.1 - 1.3 GK was previously determined to span ~4 orders of magnitude
due to the uncertain location of two previously unobserved 3+ and 2+ resonances
in the 4.7 - 4.8 MeV excitation region in 30S. Therefore, the abundances of
silicon isotopes synthesized in novae, which are relevant for the
identification of presolar grains of putative nova origin, were uncertain by a
factor of 3. To investigate the level structure of 30S above the proton
threshold (4394.9(7) keV), a charged-particle spectroscopy and an in-beam
gamma-ray spectroscopy experiments were performed. Differential cross sections
of the 32S(p,t)30S reaction were measured at 34.5 MeV. Distorted wave Born
approximation calculations were performed to constrain the spin-parity
assignments of the observed levels. An energy level scheme was deduced from
gamma-gamma coincidence measurements using the 28Si(3He,n-gamma)30S reaction.
Spin-parity assignments based on measurements of gamma-ray angular
distributions and gamma-gamma directional correlation from oriented nuclei were
made for most of the observed levels of 30S. As a result, the resonance
energies corresponding to the excited states in 4.5 MeV - 6 MeV region,
including the two astrophysically important states predicted previously, are
measured with significantly better precision than before. The uncertainty in
the rate of the 29P(p,gamma)30S reaction is substantially reduced over the
temperature range of interest. Finally, the influence of this rate on the
abundance ratios of silicon isotopes synthesized in novae are obtained via 1D
hydrodynamic nova simulations.