A simple pillbox model with two adjustable parameters accounts for the
selectivity of both DEEA Ca channels and DEKA Na channels in many ionic
solutions of different composition and concentration. Only the side chains are
different in the model of the Ca and Na channels. Parameters are the same for
both channels in all solutions. 'Pauling' radii are used for ions. No
information from crystal structures is used in the model. Side chains are
grossly approximated as spheres. The predicted properties of the Na and Ca
channels are very different. How can such a simple model give such powerful
results when chemical intuition says that selectivity depends on the precise
relation of ions and side chains? We use Monte Carlo simulations of this model
that determine the most stable-lowest free energy-structure of the ions and
side chains. Structure is the computed consequence of the forces in this model.
The relationship of ions and side chains vary with ionic solution and are very
different in simulations of the Na and Ca channels. Selectivity is a
consequence of the 'induced fit' of side chains to ions and depends on the
flexibility (entropy) of the side chains as well as their location. The model
captures the relation of side chains and ions well enough to account for
selectivity of both Na channels and Ca channels in the wide range of conditions
measured in experiments. Evidently, the structures in the real Na and Ca
channels responsible for selectivity are self-organized, at their free energy
minimum. Oversimplified models are enough to account for selectivity if the
models calculate the 'most stable' structure as it changes from solution to
solution, and mutation to mutation.