Motivated by the triumph and limitation of graphene for electronic
applications, atomically thin layers of group VI transition metal
dichalcogenides are attracting extensive interest as a class of graphene-like
semiconductors with a desired band-gap in the visible frequency range. The
monolayers feature a valence band spin splitting with opposite sign in the two
valleys located at corners of 1st Brillouin zone. This spin-valley coupling,
particularly pronounced in tungsten dichalcogenides, can benefit potential
spintronics and valleytronics with the important consequences of spin-valley
interplay and the suppression of spin and valley relaxations. Here we report
the first optical studies of WS2 and WSe2 monolayers and multilayers. The
efficiency of second harmonic generation shows a dramatic even-odd oscillation
with the number of layers, consistent with the presence (absence) of inversion
symmetry in even-layer (odd-layer). Photoluminescence (PL) measurements show
the crossover from an indirect band gap semiconductor at mutilayers to a
direct-gap one at monolayers. The PL spectra and first-principle calculations
consistently reveal a spin-valley coupling of 0.4 eV which suppresses
interlayer hopping and manifests as a thickness independent splitting pattern
at valence band edge near K points. This giant spin-valley coupling, together
with the valley dependent physical properties, may lead to rich possibilities
for manipulating spin and valley degrees of freedom in these atomically thin 2D
materials.