Moons of giant planets may represent an alternative to the classical picture
of habitable worlds. They may exist within the circumstellar habitable zone of
a parent star, and through tidal energy dissipation they may also offer
alternative habitable zones, where stellar insolation plays a secondary, or
complementary, role. We investigate the potential extent of stable satellite
orbits around a set of 74 known extrasolar giant planets located beyond 0.6 AU
from their parent stars - where moons should be long-lived with respect to
removal by stellar tides. Approximately 60% of these giant planets can sustain
satellites or moons in bands up to $\sim 0.04$ AU in width. For comparison, the
Galiean satellites extend to $\sim 0.013$ AU. We investigate the stellar
insolation that moons would experience for these exoplanet systems, and the
implications for sublimation loss of volatiles. We find that between 15 and 27%
of {\em all} known exoplanets may be capable of harboring small, icy, moons. In
addition, some 22-28% of all known exoplanets could harbor moons within a
``sublimation zone'', with insolation temperatures between 273 K and 170 K. A
simplified energy balance model is applied to the situation of temperate moons,
maintained by a combination of stellar insolation and tidal heat flow. We
demonstrate that large moons ($>0.1 $M$_{\oplus}$), at orbital radii
commensurate with those of the Galilean satellites, could maintain temperate,
or habitable, surface conditions during episodes of tidal heat dissipation of
the order 1-100 times that currently seen on Io. (Abridged).