We study the origin of non-thermal emissions from the Galactic black hole
X-ray binary Cygnus X--1 which is a confirmed high mass microquasar. By analogy
with those methods used in studies of active galactic nuclei, we propose a
two-dimensional, time-dependent radiation model from the microquasar Cygnus
X--1. In this model, the evolution equation for relativistic electrons in a
conical jet are numerically solved by including escape, adiabatic and various
radiative losses. The radiative processes involved are synchrotron emission,
its self-Compton scattering, and inverse Compton scatterings of an accretion
disk and its surrounding stellar companion. This model also includes an
electromagnetic cascade process of an anisotropic $\gamma$-$\gamma$
interaction. We study the spectral properties of electron evolution and its
emission spectral characteristic at different heights of the emission region
located in the jet. We find that radio data from Cygnus X--1 are reproduced by
the synchrotron emission, the \emph{Fermi} LAT measurements by the synchrotron
emission and Comptonization of photons of the stellar companion, the TeV band
emission fluxes by the Comptonization of the stellar photons. Our results show
that: (1) Radio emission region extends from the binary system scales to the
termination of the jet. (2) The GeV band emissions should originate from the
distance close to the binary system scales. (3) The TeV band emissions could be
inside the binary system, and these emissions could be probed by the upcoming
CTA telescope. (4) The MeV tail emissions, which produces a strongly linearly
polarized signal, are emitted inside the binary system. The location of the
emissions is very close to the inner region of the jet.