We present broad band spectra of a sample of 21 low luminosity sources in the
Trapezium Cluster, with masses in the range 0.008 - 0.10 Msun (assuming an age
of 1 Myr). These were selected for low extinction in most cases and are located
west of the brighter nebulosity. The spectra are in the H bandpass (1.4-1.95
um) and K bandpass (1.9-2.5 um) also for most of the brighter sources, with a
resolution of 50 nm. They were taken with UKIRT using the CGS4 spectrometer.
Absorption by water vapour bands is detected in all the substellar candidates
except one, which is a highly reddened object with strong H2 emission and an
anomalously blue (I-J) colour, implying that it is a very young cluster member
with circumstellar matter. The observation of prominent water vapour bands
confirms the low Effective Temperatures implied by our (I-J) colour
measurements in an earlier paper and would imply late M or L spectral types if
these were older field dwarfs. However, the profiles of the H bandpass spectra
are very different from those of field dwarfs with similar water absorption
strength, demonstrating that they are not foreground or background objects. In
addition, the CO absorption bands at 2.3 um and the NaI absorption feature at
2.21 um are very weak for such cool sources. All these features are quite well
reproduced by the AMES-Dusty-1999 model atmospheres of Allard et
al.(2000,2001), and arise from the low gravities predicted for the Trapezium
sources. This represents a new proof of the substellar status of our sources,
independent of the statistical arguments for low contamination, which are
reexamined here. The very late spectral types of the planetary mass objects and
very low mass brown dwarfs demonstrate that they are cluster members, since
they are too luminous to be field dwarfs in the background.