This work presents novel distributed data collection systems and storage
algorithms for collaborative learning wireless sensor networks (WSNs). In a
large WSN, consider $n$ collaborative sensor devices distributed randomly to
acquire information and learn about a certain field. Such sensors have less
power, small bandwidth, and short memory, and they might disappear from the
network after certain time of operations. The goal of this work is to design
efficient strategies to learn about the field by collecting sensed data from
these $n$ sensors with less computational overhead and efficient storage
encoding operations.
  In this data collection system, we propose two distributed data storage
algorithms (DSA's) to solve this problem with the means of network flooding and
connectivity among sensor devices. In the first algorithm denoted, DSA-I, it's
assumed that the total number of nodes is known for each node in the network.
We show that this algorithm is efficient in terms of the encoding/decoding
operations. Furthermore, every node uses network flooding to disseminate its
data throughout the network using mixing time approximately O(n). In the second
algorithm denoted, DSA-II, it's assumed that the total number of nodes is not
known for each learning sensor, hence dissemination of the data does not depend
on the value of $n$. In this case we show that the encoding operations take
$O(C\mu^2)$, where $\mu$ is the mean degree of the network graph and $C$ is a
system parameter. Performance of these two algorithms match the derived
theoretical results. Finally, we show how to deploy these algorithms for
monitoring and measuring certain phenomenons in American-made camp tents
located in Minna field in south-east side of Makkah.