Hubble Space Telescope images of MCG-6-30-15 show a dust lane crossing the
galaxy just below the nucleus. In this paper, we argue that this dust lane is
responsible for the observed reddening of the nuclear emission and the Fe I
edge hinted at in the Chandra spectrum of MCG-6-30-15. We further suggest that
the gas within the dust lane can comprise much of the low ionization component
(i.e., the one contributing the O VII edge) of the observed warm absorber.
Moreover, placing the warm absorbing material at such distances (hundreds of
pc) can account for the small outflow velocities of the low ionization
absorption lines as well as the constancy of the O VIII edge. Photoionization
models of a dusty interstellar gas cloud (with a column appropriate for the
reddening toward MCG-6-30-15) using a toy Seyfert 1 spectral energy
distribution show that it is possible to obtain a significant O VII edge
(\tau~0.2) if the material is ~150 pc from the ionizing source. For
MCG-6-30-15, such a distance is consistent with the observed dust lane. The
current data on MCG-6-30-15 is unable to constrain the dust composition within
the warm absorber. Astronomical silicate is a viable candidate, but there are
indications of a very low O abundance in the dust, which is inconsistent with a
silicate origin. If true, this may indicate that there were repeated cycles of
grain destruction and growth from shocks in the interstellar medium of
MCG-6-30-15. Pure iron grains are an unlikely dust constituent due to the limit
on their abundance in the Galaxy, yet they cannot be ruled out. The high column
densities inferred from the highly ionized zone of the warm absorber implies
that this gas is dust-free.