[Abridged] Evidence favouring a Gaussian initial globular cluster mass
function has accumulated over recent years. We show that an approximately
Gaussian mass function is naturally generated from a power-law mass
distribution of protoglobular clouds by expulsion from the protocluster of star
forming gas due to supernova activity, provided that the power-law mass
distribution shows a lower-mass limit. As a result of gas loss, the
gravitational potential of the protocluster gets weaker and only a fraction of
the newly formed stars is retained. The mass fraction of bound stars ranges
from zero to unity, depending on the local star formation efficiency
$\epsilon$. Assuming that $\epsilon$ is independent of the protoglobular cloud
mass, we investigate how such variations affect the mapping of a protoglobular
cloud mass function to the resulting globular cluster initial mass function. A
truncated power-law cloud mass spectrum generates bell-shaped cluster initial
mass functions, with a turnover location mostly sensitive to the lower limit of
the cloud mass range. We also show that a Gaussian mass function for the
protoglobular clouds with a mean ${\rm log}m_G \simeq 6.1-6.2$ and a standard
deviation $\sigma \lesssim 0.4$ provides results very similar to those
resulting from a truncated power-law cloud mass spectrum, that is, the
distribution function of masses of protoglobular clouds influences only weakly
the shape of the resulting globular star cluster initial mass function. The gas
removal process and the protoglobular cloud mass-scale dominate the relevant
physics. Moreover, gas removal during star formation in massive clouds is
likely the prime cause of the predominance of field stars in the Galactic halo.