The freezeout of gas-phase species onto cold dust grains can drastically
alter the chemistry and the heating-cooling balance of protostellar material.
In contrast to well-known species such as carbon monoxide (CO), the freezeout
of various carriers of elements with abundances $<10^{-5}$ has not yet been
well studied. Our aim here is to study the depletion of chlorine in the
protostellar core, OMC-2 FIR 4. We observed transitions of HCl and H2Cl+
towards OMC-2 FIR 4 using the Herschel Space Observatory and Caltech
Submillimeter Observatory facilities. Our analysis makes use of state of the
art chlorine gas-grain chemical models and newly calculated HCl-H$_{2}$
hyperfine collisional excitation rate coefficients. A narrow emission component
in the HCl lines traces the extended envelope, and a broad one traces a more
compact central region. The gas-phase HCl abundance in FIR 4 is 9e-11, a factor
of only 0.001 that of volatile elemental chlorine. The H2Cl+ lines are detected
in absorption and trace a tenuous foreground cloud, where we find no depletion
of volatile chlorine. Gas-phase HCl is the tip of the chlorine iceberg in
protostellar cores. Using a gas-grain chemical model, we show that the
hydrogenation of atomic chlorine on grain surfaces in the dark cloud stage
sequesters at least 90% of the volatile chlorine into HCl ice, where it remains
in the protostellar stage. About 10% of chlorine is in gaseous atomic form.
Gas-phase HCl is a minor, but diagnostically key reservoir, with an abundance
of <1e-10 in most of the protostellar core. We find the 35Cl/37Cl ratio in
OMC-2 FIR 4 to be 3.2\pm0.1, consistent with the solar system value.