We have extended our earlier study (Heard & Warwick 2013, Paper I) of the
X-ray emission emanating from the central 100 pc x 100 pc region of our Galaxy
to an investigation of several features prominent in the soft X-ray (2-4.5 keV)
band. We focus on three specific structures: a putative bipolar outflow from
the vicinity of Sgr A*; a high surface brightness region located roughly 12
arcmin to the north-east of Sgr A*; and a lower surface-brightness extended
loop feature seen to the south of Sgr A*. We show that all three structures are
thermal in nature and have similar temperatures (kT ~ 1 keV). The inferred
X-ray luminosities lie in the range (2 - 10) x 10^34 erg s^-1. In the case of
the bipolar feature we suggest that the hot plasma is produced by the
shock-heating of the winds from massive stars within the Central Cluster,
possibly collimated by the Circumnuclear Disc. Alternatively the outflow may be
driven by outbursts on Sgr A*, which follow tidal disruption events occurring
at a rate of roughly 1 every 4000 yr. The north-east enhancement is centred on
a candidate PWN which has a relatively hard non-thermal X-ray spectrum. We
suggest that the coincident soft-thermal emission traces the core of a new
thermal-composite supernova remnant, designated as SNR G0.13-0.12. There is no
clear evidence for an associated radio shell but such a feature may be masked
by the bright emission of the nearby Radio Arc and other filamentary
structures. SNR G0.13-0.12 is very likely interacting with the nearby molecular
cloud, G0.11-0.11, and linked to the Fermi source, 2FGL J1746.4-2851c. Finally
we explore a previous suggestion that the elliptically-shaped X-ray loop to the
south of Sgr A*, of maximum extent ~45 pc, represents the shell of a
superbubble located in the GC region. Although plausible, the interpretation of
this feature in terms a coherent physical structure awaits confirmation.