The differential rotation of the sun, as deduced from helioseismology,
exhibits a prominent radial shear layer near the top of the convection zone
wherein negative radial gradients of angular velocity are evident in the low-
and mid-latitude regions spanning the outer 5% of the solar radius.
Supergranulation and related scales of turbulent convection are likely to play
a significant role in the maintenance of such radial gradients, and may
influence dynamics on a global scale in ways that are not yet understood. To
investigate such dynamics, we have constructed a series of three-dimensional
numerical simulations of turbulent compressible convection within spherical
shells, dealing with shallow domains to make such modeling computationally
tractable. These simulations are the first models of solar convection in a
spherical geometry that can explicitly resolve both the largest dynamical
scales of the system (of order the solar radius) as well as smaller-scale
convective overturning motions comparable in size to solar supergranulation
(20--40 Mm). We find that convection within these simulations spans a large
range of horizontal scales, and that the radial angular velocity gradient in
these models is typically negative, especially in low- and mid-latitude
regions. Analyses of the angular momentum transport indicates that such
gradients are maintained by Reynolds stresses associated with the convection,
transporting angular momentum inward to balance the outward transport achieved
by viscous diffusion and large-scale flows in the meridional plane. We suggest
that similar mechanisms associated with smaller-scale convection in the sun may
contribute to the maintenance of the observed radial shear layer located
immediately below the solar photosphere.