We present 45"-47" angular resolution maps at 50" sampling of the 12CO and
13CO J=1-0 emission toward a 1.39 deg x 1.33 deg region in the W51 HII region
complex. These data permit the spatial and kinematic separation of several
spectral features observed along the line of sight to W51, and establish the
presence of a massive (1.2 x 10^6 Mo), large (83 pc x 114 pc) giant molecular
cloud (GMC), defined as the W51 GMC, centered at (l,b,V) = (49.5 deg, -0.2 deg,
61 km/s). A second massive (1.9 x 10^5 Mo), elongated (136 pc x 22 pc)
molecular cloud is found at velocities of about 68 km/s along the southern edge
of the W51 GMC. Of the five radio continuum sources that classically define the
W51 region, the brightest source at lambda 6cm (G49.5-0.4) is spatially and
kinematically coincident with the W51 GMC and three (G48.9-0.3, G49.1-0.4, and
G49.2-0.4) are associated with the 68 km/s cloud. Published absorption line
spectra indicate that the fifth prominent continuum source (G49.4-0.3) is
located behind the W51 molecular cloud. The W51 GMC is among the upper 1% of
clouds in the Galactic disk by size and the upper 5-10% by mass. While the W51
GMC is larger and more massive than any nearby molecular cloud, the average H2
column density is not unusual given its size and the mean H2 volume density is
comparable to that in nearby clouds. The W51 GMC is also similar to other
clouds in that most of the molecular mass is contained in a diffuse envelope
that is not currently forming massive stars. We speculate that much of the
massive star formation activity in this region has resulted from a collision
between the 68 km/s cloud and the W51 GMC.