We have compared the stellar parameters, temperature, gravity and
metallicity, between the LAMOST-DR2 and SDSS-DR12/APOGEE database for stars in
common. It is found that the LAMOST database provides a better red-clump
feature than the APOGEE database in the Teff versus logg diagram. With this
advantage, we have separated red clump stars from red giant stars, and attempt
to establish the calibrations between the two datasets for the two groups of
stars respectively.
  It shows that there is a good consistency in temperature with a calibration
close to the one-to-one line, and we can establish a satisfied metallicity
calibration of [Fe/H]_APO=1.18[Fe/H]_APO+0.11 with a scatter of 0.08 dex for
both red clump and red giant branch samples. For gravity, there is no any
correlation for red clump stars between the two databases, and scatters around
the calibrations of red giant stars are substantial. We found two main sources
of the scatters of logg for red giant stars. One is a group of stars with
$0.00253*Teff-8.67<logg<2.6 locating at the forbidden region, and the other is
the contaminated red clump stars, which could be picked out from the unmatched
region where stellar metallicity is not consistent with the position in the
Teff versus logg diagram. After excluding stars at the two regions, we have
established two calibrations for red giant stars,
logg_APO=0.000615*Teff_LAMO+0.697*logg_LAMO-2.208$ (sigma=0.150) for [Fe/H]>-1
and logg_APO=0.000874*Teff_LAMO+0.588*logg_LAMO-3.117 (sigma=0.167) for
[Fe/H]<-1. The calibrations are valid for stars with Teff=3800-5400 K and
logg=0-3.8 dex, and are useful in a work aiming to combine the LAMOST and
APOGEE databases in the future study. In addition, we find that an SVM method
based on seismic logg is a good way to greatly improve the accuracy of gravity
for these two regions at least in the LAMOST database.