Near-infrared spectroscopy of Near-Earth Objects (NEOs) connects diagnostic
spectral features to specific surface mineralogies. The combination of
spectroscopy with albedos and diameters derived from thermal infrared
observations can increase the scientific return beyond that of the individual
datasets. To that end, we have completed a spectroscopic observing campaign to
complement the ExploreNEOs Warm Spitzer program that obtained albedos and
diameters of nearly 600 NEOs (Trilling et al. 2010). Here we present the
results of observations using the low-resolution prism mode (~0.7-2.5 microns)
of the SpeX instrument on the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility (IRTF). We also
include near-infrared observations of ExploreNEOs targets from the MIT-UH-IRTF
Joint Campaign for Spectral Reconnaissance. Our dataset includes near-infrared
spectra of 187 ExploreNEOs targets (125 observations of 92 objects from our
survey and 213 observations of 154 objects from the MIT survey). We identify a
taxonomic class for each spectrum and use band parameter analysis to
investigate the mineralogies for the S-, Q-, and V-complex objects. Our
analysis suggests that for spectra that contain near-infrared data but lack the
visible wavelength region, the Bus-DeMeo system misidentifies some S-types as
Q-types. We find no correlation between spectral band parameters and
ExploreNEOs albedos and diameters. We find slightly negative Band Area Ratio
(BAR) correlations with phase angle for Eros and Ivar, but a positive BAR
correlation with phase angle for Ganymed. We find evidence for spectral phase
reddening for Eros, Ganymed, and Ivar. We identify the likely ordinary
chondrite type analog for a subset of our sample. Our resulting proportions of
H, L, and LL ordinary chondrites differ from those calculated for meteorite
falls and in previous studies of ordinary chondrite-like NEOs.