De Finetti's classical result of [18] identifying the law of an exchangeable
family of random variables as a mixture of i.i.d. laws was extended to
structure theorems for more complex notions of exchangeability by Aldous
[1,2,3], Hoover [41,42], Kallenberg [44] and Kingman [47]. On the other hand,
such exchangeable laws were first related to questions from combinatorics in an
independent analysis by Fremlin and Talagrand [29], and again more recently in
Tao [62], where they appear as a natural proxy for the `leading order
statistics' of colourings of large graphs or hypergraphs. Moreover, this
relation appears implicitly in the study of various more bespoke formalisms for
handling `limit objects' of sequences of dense graphs or hypergraphs in a
number of recent works, including Lov\'{a}sz and Szegedy [52], Borgs, Chayes,
Lov\'{a}sz, S\'{o}s, Szegedy and Vesztergombi [17], Elek and Szegedy [24] and
Razborov [54,55]. However, the connection between these works and the earlier
probabilistic structural results seems to have gone largely unappreciated. In
this survey we recall the basic results of the theory of exchangeable laws, and
then explain the probabilistic versions of various interesting questions from
graph and hypergraph theory that their connection motivates (particularly
extremal questions on the testability of properties for graphs and
hypergraphs). We also locate the notions of exchangeability of interest to us
in the context of other classes of probability measures subject to various
symmetries, in particular contrasting the methods employed to analyze
exchangeable laws with related structural results in ergodic theory, particular
the Furstenberg-Zimmer structure theorem for probability-preserving $\mathbb
{Z}$-systems, which underpins Furstenberg's ergodic-theoretic proof of
Szemer\'{e}di's Theorem. The forthcoming paper [10]--hereditarytest will make a
much more elaborate appeal to the link between exchangeable laws and dense
(directed) hypergraphs to establish various results in property testing.