We recently reported on the detection of a possible planetary-mass companion
to Beta Pictoris at a projected separation of 8 AU from the star, using data
taken in November 2003 with NaCo, the adaptive-optics system installed on the
Very Large Telescope UT4. Eventhough no second epoch detection was available,
there are strong arguments to favor a gravitationally bound companion rather
than a background object. If confirmed and located at a physical separation of
8 AU, this young, hot (~1500 K), massive Jovian companion (~8 Mjup) would be
the closest planet to its star ever imaged, could be formed via core-accretion,
and could explain the main morphological and dynamical properties of the dust
disk. Our goal was to return to Beta Pic five years later to obtain a
second-epoch observation of the companion or, in case of a non-detection,
constrain its orbit. Deep adaptive-optics L'-band direct images of Beta Pic and
Ks-band Four-Quadrant-Phase-Mask (4QPM) coronagraphic images were recorded with
NaCo in January and February 2009. We also use 4QPM data taken in November
2004. No point-like signal with the brightness of the companion candidate
(apparent magnitudes L'=11.2 or Ks ~ 12.5) is detected at projected distances
down to 6.5 AU from the star in the 2009 data. As expected, the non-detection
does not allow to rule out a background object; however, we show that it is
consistent with the orbital motion of a bound companion that got closer to the
star since first observed in 2003 and that is just emerging from behind the
star at the present epoch. We place strong constraints on the possible orbits
of the companion and discuss future observing prospects.