We have analyzed a sample of 27,258 fundamental-mode RR Lyrae variable stars
(type RRab) detected recently toward the Galactic bulge by the OGLE survey. The
data support our earlier claim that these metal-poor stars trace closely the
barred structure formed of intermediate-age red clump giants. The distance to
the Galactic center (GC) inferred from the bulge RR Lyrae stars is
R_0=8.27+/-0.01(stat)+/-0.40(sys) kpc. We show that their spatial distribution
has the shape of a triaxial ellipsoid with the major axis located in the
Galactic plane and inclined at an angle i=20+/-3 deg to the Sun-GC line of
sight. The obtained scale-length ratio of the major axis to the minor axis in
the Galactic plane, and to the axis vertical to the plane is 1:0.49(2):0.39(2).
We do not see the evidence for the bulge RR Lyrae stars forming an X-shaped
structure. Based on the light curve parameters, we derive metallicities of the
RRab variables and show that there is a very mild but statistically significant
radial metallicity gradient. About 60% of the bulge RRab stars form two very
close sequences on the period-amplitude (or Bailey) diagram, which we interpret
as two major old bulge populations: A and B. Their metallicities likely differ.
Population A is about four times less abundant than the slightly more
metal-poor population B. Most of the remaining stars seem to represent other,
even more metal-poor populations of the bulge. The presence of multiple old
populations indicates that the Milky Way bulge was initially formed through
mergers.