Besides new observations, mining old photographic plates and CCD image
archives represents an opportunity to recover and secure newly discovered
asteroids, also to improve the orbits of Near Earth Asteroids (NEAs),
Potentially Hazardous Asteroids (PHAs) and Virtual Impactors (VIs). These are
the main research aims of the EURONEAR network. As stated by the IAU, the vast
collection of image archives stored worldwide is still insufficiently explored,
and could be mined for known NEAs and other asteroids appearing occasionally in
their fields. This data mining could be eased using a server to search and
classify findings based on the asteroid class and the discovery date as
"precoveries" or "recoveries". We built PRECOVERY, a public facility which uses
the Virtual Observatory SkyBoT webservice of IMCCE to search for all known
Solar System objects in a given observation. To datamine an entire archive,
PRECOVERY requires the observing log in a standard format and outputs a
database listing the sorted encounters of NEAs, PHAs, numbered and un-numbered
asteroids classified as precoveries or recoveries based on the daily updated
IAUMPC database. As a first application, we considered an archive including
about 13,000 photographic plates exposed between 1930 and 2005 at the
Astronomical Observatory in Bucharest, Romania. PRECOVERY can be applied to
other archives, being intended as a public facility offered to the community by
the EURONEAR project. This is the first of a series of papers aimed to improve
orbits of PHAs and NEAs using precovered data derived from archives of images
to be data mined in collaboration with students and amateurs. In the next paper
we will search the CFHT Legacy Survey, while data mining of other archives is
planned for the near future.