(abridged) We aim to constrain the location, composition, and dynamical state
of planetesimal populations and dust around the young, sun-like (G2V) star HD
107146}. We consider coronagraphic observations obtained with the Advanced
Camera for Surveys (HST/ACS) onboard the HST in broad V and broad I filters, a
resolved 1.3mm map obtained with the Combined Array for Research in
Millimeter-Wave Astronomy (CARMA), Spitzer/IRS low resolution spectra, and the
spectral energy distribution (SED) of the object at wavelengths ranging from
3.5micron to 3.1mm. We complement these data with new coronagraphic high
resolution observations of the debris disk using the Near Infrared Camera and
Multi-Object Spectrometer (HST/NICMOS) aboard the HST in the F110W filter. The
SED and images of the disk in scattered light as well as in thermal reemission
are combined in our modeling using a parameterized model for the disk density
distribution and optical properties of the dust. A detailed analytical model of
the debris disk around HD 107146 is presented that allows us to reproduce the
almost entire set of spatially resolved and unresolved multi-wavelength
observations. Considering the variety of complementary observational data, we
are able to break the degeneracies produced by modeling SED data alone. We find
the disk to be an extended ring with a peak surface density at 131AU.
Furthermore, we find evidence for an additional, inner disk probably composed
of small grains released at the inner edge of the outer disk and moving inwards
due to Poynting-Robertson drag. A birth ring scenario (i.e., a more or less
broad ring of planetesimals creating the dust disk trough collisions) is found
to be the most likely explanation of the ringlike shape of the disk.