Advanced ground-based gravitational-wave (GW) detectors begin operation
imminently. Their intended goal is not only to make the first direct detection
of GWs, but also to make inferences about the source systems. Binary
neutron-star mergers are among the most promising sources. We investigate the
performance of the parameter-estimation \edit{(PE)} pipeline that will be used
during the first observing run of the Advanced Laser Interferometer
Gravitational-wave Observatory (aLIGO) in 2015: we concentrate on the ability
to reconstruct the source location on the sky, but also consider the ability to
measure masses and the distance. Accurate, rapid sky-localization is necessary
to alert electromagnetic (EM) observatories so that they can perform follow-up
searches for counterpart transient events. We consider PE accuracy in the
presence of \edit{non-stationary}, non-Gaussian noise. We find that the
character of the noise makes negligible difference to the PE performance
\edit{at a given signal-to-noise ratio}. The source luminosity distance can
only be poorly constrained, the median $90\%$ ($50\%$) credible interval scaled
with respect to the true distance is $0.85$ ($0.38$). However, the chirp mass
is well measured. Our chirp-mass estimates are subject to systematic error
because we used gravitational-waveform templates without component spin to
carry out inference on signals with moderate spins, but the total error is
typically less than $10^{-3} M_\odot$. The median $90\%$ ($50\%$) credible
region for sky localization is $\sim600~\mathrm{deg^{2}}$
($\sim150~\mathrm{deg^{2}}$), with $3\%$ ($30\%$) of detected events localized
within $100~\mathrm{deg^{2}}$. Early aLIGO, with only two detectors, will have
a sky-localization accuracy for binary neutron stars of hundreds of square
degrees; this makes EM follow-up challenging, but not impossible.