We present spectroscopic observations of the double-lined early type
eclipsing binary V1898\,Cyg. The radial velocities were obtained by means of
the cross-correlation technique. Analyses of the BV light curves and RVs led to
determination of the fundamental stellar parameters of the V1898\,Cyg's
components. We derived new ephemerides for the eclipsing pair using the
observed times of mid-eclipses. The residuals between the observed and computed
times of mid-eclipses were analysed and a rate of the period change $\dot{P}/P=
6.68 \times 10^{-7}\,yr^{-1}$ was obtained. The orbital period is increased by
about 0.38 s in the last 24 years due to the mass transfer from less massive
secondary to the more massive primary star with an amount of
$1.88\times10^{-7}\,$ \Msun in a year, assuming conservative case. Results of
the light and radial velocity curves' analyses were combined and the physical
parameters of the components were revealed. The absolute parameters for the
stars are derived as: M$_1$=6.054$\pm$0.037 M$_{\odot}$, M$_2$=1.162$\pm$0.011
M$_{\odot}$, R$_1$=3.526$\pm$0.009 R$_{\odot}$, R$_2$=2.640$\pm$0.010
R$_{\odot}$, T$_{eff_1}$=18\,000$\pm$600 K, and T$_{eff_2}$=6\,200$\pm$200 K.
We have calculated the distance to the system of V1898\,Cyg as 501$\pm$5 pc
using the infrared JHK magnitudes and bolometric corrections for the primary
star. While the more massive star locates in the main-sequence band the less
massive secondary appears in the giant branch which is common in the classical
Algols. Any attempt for comparison with current stellar evolution models was
made because the system seems in the phase of fast mass transfer. Moreover, the
components of the system's proper motions present some indications about
membership of the North America nebula.