The 40 ks \emph{Chandra} ACIS-S observation of A1367 provides new insights
into small-scale structures and point sources in this dynamically young
cluster. Here we concentrate on small-scale extended structures. A ridge-like
structure around the center (``the ridge'') is significant in the \chandra\
image. The ridge, with a projected length of $\sim$ 8 arcmin (or 300
h$_{0.5}^{-1}$ kpc), is elongated from northwest (NW) to southeast (SE), as is
the X-ray surface brightness distribution on much larger scales ($\sim$ 2
h$_{0.5}^{-1}$ Mpc). The ridge is cooler than its western and southern
surroundings while the differences from its eastern and northern surroundings
are small. We also searched for small-scale structures with sizes $\sim$
arcmin. Nine extended features, with sizes from $\sim$ 0.5$'$ to 1.5$'$, were
detected at significance levels above 4 $\sigma$. Five of the nine features are
located in the ridge and form local crests. The nine extended features can be
divided into two types. Those associated with galaxies (NGC 3860B, NGC 3860 and
UGC 6697) are significantly cooler than their surroundings (0.3 - 0.9 keV vs. 3
- 4.5 keV). The masses of their host galaxies are sufficient to bind the
extended gas. These extended features are probably related to thermal halos or
galactic superwinds of their host galaxies. The existence of these relatively
cold halos imply that galaxy coronae can survive in cluster environment (e.g.,
Vikhlinin et al. 2001). Features of the second type are not apparently
associated with galaxies. Their temperatures may not be significantly different
from those of their surroundings. This class of extended features may be
related to the ridge. We consider several possibilities for the ridge and the
second type of extended features. The merging scenario is preferred.