With the large sample of young gamma-ray pulsars discovered by the Fermi
Large Area Telescope (LAT), population synthesis has become a powerful tool for
comparing their collective properties with model predictions. We synthesised a
pulsar population based on a radio emission model and four gamma-ray gap models
(Polar Cap, Slot Gap, Outer Gap, and One Pole Caustic) normalizing to the
number of detected radio pulsars in select group of surveys. The luminosity and
the wide beams from the outer gaps can easily account for the number of Fermi
detections in 2 years of observations. The wide slot-gap beams requires an
increase by a factor of ~10 of the predicted luminosity to produce a reasonable
number of gamma-ray pulsars. Such large increases in the luminosity may be
accommodated by implementing offset polar caps. The narrow polar-cap beams
contribute at most only a handful of LAT pulsars. Standard distributions in
birth location and pulsar spin-down power (Edot) fail to reproduce the LAT
findings: all models under-predict the number of LAT pulsars with high Edot,
and they cannot explain the high probability of detecting both the radio and
gamma-ray beams at high Edot. The beaming factor remains close to 1 over 4
decades in Edot evolution for the slot gap whereas it significantly decreases
with increasing age for the outer gaps. The evolution of the slot-gap
luminosity with Edot is compatible with the large dispersion of gamma-ray
luminosity seen in the LAT data. The stronger evolution predicted for the outer
gap, which is linked to the polar cap heating by the return current, is
apparently not supported by the LAT data. The LAT sample of gamma-ray pulsars
therefore provides a fresh perspective on the early evolution of the luminosity
and beam width of the gamma-ray emission from young pulsars, calling for thin
and more luminous gaps.