Magnetic neutral points, where the magnitude of the magnetic field vanishes
locally, are potential locations for energy conversion in the solar corona. The
fact that the magnetic field is identically zero at these points suggests that
for the study of current sheet formation and of any subsequent resistive
dissipation phase, a finite beta plasma should be considered, rather than
neglecting the plasma pressure as has often been the case in the past. The
rapid dissipation of a finite current layer in non-force-free equilibrium is
investigated numerically, after the sudden onset of an anomalous resistivity.
The aim of this study is to determine how the energy is redistributed during
the initial diffusion phase, and what is the nature of the outward transmission
of information and energy. The resistivity rapidly diffuses the current at the
null point. The presence of a plasma pressure allows the vast majority of the
free energy to be transferred into internal energy. Most of the converted
energy is used in direct heating of the surrounding plasma, and only about 3%
is converted into kinetic energy, causing a perturbation in the magnetic field
and the plasma which propagates away from the null at the local fast
magnetoacoustic speed. The propagating pulses show a complex structure due to
the highly non-uniform initial state. It is shown that this perturbation
carries no net current as it propagates away from the null. The fact that,
under the assumptions taken in this paper, most of the magnetic energy released
in the reconnection converts internal energy of the plasma, may be highly
important for the chromospheric and coronal heating problem.