We study the mid-infrared properties of a sample of 69 nearby spiral
galaxies, selected to avoid Seyfert activity contributing a significant
fraction of the central energetics, or strong tidal interaction, and to have
normal infrared luminosities. These observations were obtained with ISOCAM,
which provides an angular resolution of the order of 10 arcsec (half-power
diameter of the point spread function) and low-resolution spectro-imaging
information. Between 5 and 18 microns, we mainly observe two dust phases,
aromatic infrared bands and very small grains, both out of thermal equilibrium.
On this sample, we show that the global F15/F7 colors of galaxies are very
uniform, the only increase being found in early-type strongly barred galaxies,
consistent with previous IRAS studies. The F15/F7 excesses are unambiguously
due to galactic central regions where bar-induced starbursts occur. However,
the existence of strongly barred early-type galaxies with normal circumnuclear
colors indicates that the relationship between a distortion of the
gravitational potential and a central starburst is not straightforward. As the
physical processes at work in central regions are in principle identical in
barred and unbarred galaxies, and since this is where the mid-infrared activity
is mainly located, we investigate the mid-infrared circumnuclear properties of
all the galaxies in our sample. We show how surface brightnesses and colors are
related to both the available molecular gas content and the mean age of stellar
populations contributing to dust heating. Therefore, the star formation history
in galactic central regions can be constrained by their position in a
color-surface brightness mid-infrared diagram.