[annotated] HST WFPC2 images were taken of three LSB dwarf elliptical
galaxies in the Virgo cluster. The intent of the observations was to determine
the small scale structure in these enigmatic galaxies, and to attempt to learn
something about the nature of their giant branch through the detection of
luminosity fluctuations. In two of the three studied galaxies, V7L3 and V1L4,
the luminosity fluctuations were unambiguously detected, yielding a density of
2 - 10 red giants/pixel. Using the observed B-V and V-I colors as a constraint,
we could find no model that would reproduce the observed fluctuation signal and
blue colors if there was a significant population of M-giants in these systems.
The third system, V2L8, did not have a detectable fluctuation signal which
possibly implies it is not in the Virgo cluster. Interestingly, this system is
highly nucleated. Our observations have resolved this nucleus and if V2L8 is in
Virgo, then we have discovered what is likely the smallest bulge measured to
date, having an effective radius of only 50 pc. This bulge is quite red (as red
as giant ellipticals) and its entirely possible that this nucleated dE galaxy,
in fact, is a very large galaxy located in the background. As such, it is
highly reminiscent of the manner in which Malin-1 was discovered. Finally, we
find no evidence for small scale clumping of stars in any of the studied
systems at this much improved spatial resolution. This implies these systems
are dynamically well-relaxed and that the physical cause of their observed low
surface brightnesses is their low density. When imaged at the high spatial
resolution of the WFPC2 (~6 pc per pixel), the galaxies are easy to look right
through without evening knowing they are present in the very middle of the
WFPC2 frame. They appear only as elevated ``sky noise''.