We have carried out a multi-wavelength study of the infrared dust bubble N6
to extensively investigate the molecular environs and star-forming activities
therein. Mapping observations in 12CO J=1-0 and 13CO J=1-0 performed with the
Purple Mountain Observatory 13.7-m telescope have revealed four velocity
components. Comparison between distributions of each component and the infrared
emission suggests that three components are correlated with N6. There are ten
molecular clumps detected. Among them, five have reliable detection in both
12CO and 13CO and have similar LTE and non-LTE masses ranging from 200 to
higher than 5,000 M_sun. With larger gas masses than virial masses, these five
clumps are gravitationally unstable and have potential to collapse to form new
stars. The other five clumps are only reliably detected in 12CO and have
relatively small masses. Five clumps are located on the border of the ring
structure and four of them are elongated along the shell. This is well in
agreement with the collect and collapse scenario. The detected velocity
gradient reveals that the ring structure is still under expansion due to
stellar winds from the exciting star(s). Furthermore, 99 young stellar objects
have been identified based on their infrared colors. A group of YSOs reside
inside the ring, indicating active star formation in N6. Although no
confirmative features of triggered star formation detected, the bubble and the
enclosed HII region have profoundly reconstructed the natal could and altered
the dynamics therein.