Studies on friendships in online social networks involving geographic
distance have so far relied on the city location provided in users' profiles.
Consequently, most of the research on friendships have provided accuracy at the
city level, at best, to designate a user's location. This study analyzes a
Twitter dataset because it provides the exact geographic distance between
corresponding users. We start by introducing a strong definition of "friend" on
Twitter (i.e., a definition of bidirectional friendship), requiring
bidirectional communication. Next, we utilize geo-tagged mentions delivered by
users to determine their locations, where "@username" is contained anywhere in
the body of tweets. To provide analysis results, we first introduce a friend
counting algorithm. From the fact that Twitter users are likely to post
consecutive tweets in the static mode, we also introduce a two-stage distance
estimation algorithm. As the first of our main contributions, we verify that
the number of friends of a particular Twitter user follows a well-known
power-law distribution (i.e., a Zipf's distribution or a Pareto distribution).
Our study also provides the following newly-discovered friendship degree
related to the issue of space: The number of friends according to distance
follows a double power-law (i.e., a double Pareto law) distribution, indicating
that the probability of befriending a particular Twitter user is significantly
reduced beyond a certain geographic distance between users, termed the
separation point. Our analysis provides concrete evidence that Twitter can be a
useful platform for assigning a more accurate scalar value to the degree of
friendship between two users.