In this paper we discuss the influence of gravitational instabilities in
massive protostellar discs on the dynamics of dust grains. Starting from a
Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) simulation, we have computed the
evolution of the dust in a quasi-static gas density structure typical of
self-gravitating disc. For different grain size distributions we have
investigated the capability of spiral arms to trap particles. We have run 3D
radiative transfer simulations in order to construct maps of the expected
emission at (sub-)millimetre and near-infrared wavelengths. Finally, we have
simulated realistic observations of our disc models at (sub-)millimetre and
near-infrared wavelengths as they may appear with the Atacama Large
Millimetre/sub-millimetre Array (ALMA) and the High-Contrast Coronographic
Imager for Adaptive Optics (HiCIAO) in order to investigate whether there are
observational signatures of the spiral structure. We find that the pressure
inhomogeites induced by gravitational instabilities produce a non-negligible
dynamical effect on centimetre sized particles leading to significant
overdensities in spiral arms. We also find that the spiral structure is readily
detectable by ALMA over a wide range of (sub-)millimetre wavelengths and by
HiCIAO in near-infrared scattered light for non-face-on discs located in the
Ophiucus star-forming region. In addition, we find clear spatial spectral index
variations across the disc, revealing that the dust trapping produces a
migration of large grains that can be potentially investigated through
multi-wavelenghts observations in the (sub-)millimetric. Therefore, the spiral
arms observed to date in protoplanetary disc might be interpreted as density
waves induced by the development of gravitational instabilities.