From 2001 January to 2002 June, we monitored PSRs B0329+54, B0823+26,
B1929+10, B2020+28 and B2021+51 using the Nanshan 25-m radio telescope of
Urumqi Observatory to study their diffractive interstellar scintillation
(DISS). The average interval between observations was about 9 days and the
observation duration ranged between 2 and 6 hours depending on the pulsar. Wide
variations in the DISS parameters were observed over the 18-month data span.
Despite this, the average scintillation velocities are in excellent agreement
with the proper motion velocities. The average two-dimensional autocorrelation
function for PSR B0329+54 is well described by a thin-screen Kolmogorov model,
at least along the time and frequency axes. Observed modulation indices for the
DISS time scale and bandwidth and the pulsar flux density are greater than
values predicted for a Kolmogorov spectrum of electron density fluctuations.
Correlated variations over times long compared to the nominal refractive
scintillation time are observed, suggesting that larger-scale density
fluctuations are important. For these pulsars, the scintillation bandwidth as a
function of frequency has a power-law index (~3.6) much less than expected for
Kolmogorov turbulence (~4.4). Sloping fringes are commonly observed in the
dynamic spectra, especially for PSR B0329+54. The detected range of fringe
slopes are limited by our observing resolution. Our observations are sensitive
to larger-scale fringes and hence smaller refractive angles, corresponding to
the central part of the scattering disk.