Models of planet formation and evolution predict that giant planets form
efficiently in protoplanetary disks, that most of these migrate rapidly to the
disk's inner edge, and that, if the arriving planet's mass is $\lesssim$
Jupiter's mass, it could remain stranded near that radius. We argue that such
planets would be ingested by tidal interaction with the host star on a
timescale $\lesssim1\,$Gyr, and that, in the case of a solar-type host, this
would cause the stellar spin to approach the direction of the ingested planet's
orbital axis even if the two were initially highly misaligned. Primordially
misaligned stars whose effective temperatures are $\gtrsim6250\,$K cannot be
realigned in this way because, in contrast with solar-type hosts, their angular
momenta are typically higher than the orbital angular momentum of the ingested
planet as a result of inefficient magnetic braking and of a comparatively large
moment of inertia. Hot Jupiters located farther out from the star can
contribute to this process, but their effect is weaker because the tidal
interaction strength decreases rapidly with increasing semimajor axis. We
demonstrate that, if $\sim50\%$ of planetary systems harbored a stranded hot
Jupiter, this scenario can in principle account for (1) the good alignment
exhibited by planets around cool stars irrespective of the planet's mass or
orbital period, (2) the prevalence of misaligned planets around hot stars, (3)
the apparent upper bound on the mass of hot Jupiters on retrograde orbits, and
(4) the inverse correlation between stellar spin periods and hot-Jupiter
masses.