We examine the specific problem of clearing day-ahead electricity market
auctions where each bidder, whether a producer or consumer, can specify a
minimum profit or maximum payment condition constraining the acceptance of a
set of bid curves spanning multiple time periods in locations connected through
a transmission network with linear constraints. This helps describing e.g. the
recovery of start-up costs of a power plant, or analogously for a large
consumer, utility reduced by a constant term. We propose here a new market
model with a corresponding MILP formulation for uniform locational price
day-ahead auctions, handling bids with a minimum profit or maximum payment
condition, which we call MP bids, in a uniform and computationally-efficient
way. We also propose an exact decomposition procedure with sparse strengthened
Benders cuts derived from the MILP formulation. Both the MILP formulation and
the exact decomposition procedure are similar to computationally-efficient
approaches previously proposed to handle indivisible bids (so-called block
bids) according to European market rules, though the clearing conditions could
appear different at first sight. Indeed, the approach and the cuts proposed are
also valid to deal with both kinds of bids simultaneously, as block bids with a
minimum acceptance ratio, which generalize regular (fully indivisible) block
bids, turn out to be a special case of the MP bids introduced here which
include minimum power output level information. We compare these MP bids to
previous models for minimum profit conditions proposed in the academic
literature, and to the model for minimum income conditions used by the Spanish
power exchange OMIE, now integrated to the pan-European PCR market.