We present a catalogue of near-infrared photometry of young stars associated
with the Ophiuchus molecular cloud, based on observations made with the Hubble
Space Telescope NICMOS-3 camera at 1.1 $\mu$m and 1.6 $\mu$m. Our survey covers
0.02 square degrees centered on the dense molecular cores in Lynds 1688. We
detect 165 sources at 1.6 $\mu$m and 65 sources at 1.1 $\mu$m, within our
estimated completeness limits of 21.0 mag and 21.5 mag, respectively. An
analysis of the cloud extinction, based on existing molecular line maps,
suggests that most of the sources lying within the 40 $\rm{A_V}$ extinction
contour of the cloud are probable cloud members. Approximately half (58/108) of
these sources are previously unpublished. The faint embedded sources revealed
by these observations are spatially concentrated in three regions of high
stellar space density (N$> 10^4$ stars pc$^{-3}$). While the spatial
distribution of these sources reflects that of the brighter, well--known
population of young stars in Ophiuchus, it is distinctly different from the
distribution of cool concentrations seen in the submillimeter. Seven new brown
dwarf candidates are identified, based on their infrared colors and their
projected locations on high column-density regions of the molecular cloud.
Eight new candidate binary and five new candidate triple systems, having
separations between 0\farcs2 to 10\arcsec (29 to 1450 AU) are reported. The
spatial resolution and sensitivity of these observations reveal five apparent
disk/envelope systems seen via scattered light, and four nebulous objects with
complex morphologies.