We present a comprehensive study of the total X-ray emission from the
colliding galaxy pair NGC2207/IC2163, based on Chandra, Spitzer, and GALEX
data. We detect 28 ultra-luminous X-ray sources (ULXs), 7 of which were not
detected previously due to X-ray variability. Twelve sources show significant
long-term variability, with no correlated spectral changes. Seven sources are
transient candidates. One ULX coincides with an extremely blue star cluster
(B-V = -0.7). We confirm that the global relation between the number and
luminosity of ULXs and the integrated star formation rate (SFR) of the host
galaxy also holds on local scales. We investigate the effects of dust
extinction and/or age on the X-ray binary (XRB) population on sub-galactic
scales. The distributions of Nx and Lx are peaked at L(IR)/L(NUV)~1, which may
be associated with an age of ~10 Myr for the underlying stellar population. We
find that ~1/3 of the XRBs are located in close proximity to young star
complexes. The luminosity function of the X-ray binaries is consistent with
that typical for high-mass X-ray binaries, and appears unaffected by
variability. We disentangle and compare the X-ray diffuse spectrum with that of
the bright XRBs. The hot interstellar medium dominates the diffuse X-ray
emission at E<1 keV, has a temperature kT=0.28 (+0.05/-0.04) keV and intrinsic
0.5-2 keV luminosity of 7.9e+40 erg/s, a factor of ~2.3 higher than the average
thermal luminosity produced per unit SFR in local star-forming galaxies. The
total X-ray output of NGC2207/IC2163 is 1.5e+41 erg/s, and the corresponding
total integrated SFR is 23.7 Msol/yr.