We present a catalog of 1415 X-ray sources identified in the Norma arm region
Chandra survey (NARCS), which covers a 2 deg x 0.8 deg region in the direction
of the Norma spiral arm to a depth of $\approx$20 ks. Of these sources, 1130
are point-like sources detected with $\geq3\sigma$ confidence in at least one
of three energy bands (0.5-10, 0.5-2, and 2-10 keV), five have extended
emission, and the remainder are detected at low significance. Since most
sources have too few counts to permit individual classification, they are
divided into five spectral groups defined by their quantile properties. We
analyze stacked spectra of X-ray sources within each group, in conjunction with
their fluxes, variability, and infrared counterparts, to identify the dominant
populations in our survey. We find that $\sim$50% of our sources are foreground
sources located within 1-2 kpc, which is consistent with expectations from
previous surveys. Approximately 20% of sources are likely located in the
proximity of the Scutum-Crux and near Norma arm, while 30% are more distant, in
the proximity of the far Norma arm or beyond. We argue that a mixture of
magnetic and nonmagnetic CVs dominates the Scutum-Crux and near Norma arms,
while intermediate polars (IPs) and high-mass stars (isolated or in binaries)
dominate the far Norma arm. We also present the cumulative number count
distribution for sources in our survey that are detected in the hard energy
band. A population of very hard sources in the vicinity of the far Norma arm
and active galactic nuclei dominate the hard X-ray emission down to
$f_X\approx10^{-14}$ erg cm$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$, but the distribution curve
flattens at fainter fluxes. We find good agreement between the observed
distribution and predictions based on other surveys.