The use of carbon nanotubes as optical probes for scanning near-field optical
microscopy requires an understanding of their near-field response. As a first
step in this direction, we investigated the lateral resolution of a carbon
nanotube tip with respect to an ideal electric dipole representing an
elementary detected object. A Fredholm integral equation of the first kind was
formulated for the surface electric current density induced on a single-wall
carbon nanotube (SWNT) by the electromagnetic field due to an arbitrarily
oriented electric dipole located outside the SWNT. The response of the SWNT to
the near field of a source electric dipole can be classified into two types,
because surface-wave propagation occurs with (i) low damping at frequencies
less than ~ 200-250 THz and (ii) high damping at higher frequencies. The
interaction between the source electric dipole and the SWNT depends critically
on their relative location and relative orientation, and shows evidence of the
geometrical resonances of the SWNT in the low-frequency regime. These
resonances disappear when the relaxation time of the SWNT is sufficiently low.
The far-field radiation intensity is much higher when the source electric
dipole is placed near an edge of SWNT than at the centroid of the SWNT. The use
of an SWNT tip in scattering-type scanning near-field optical microscopy can
deliver a resolution less than ~ 20 nm. Moreover, our study shows that the
relative orientation and distance between the SWNT and the nanoscale dipole
source can be detected.