We present the photometric catalogs for the star-forming cluster NGC 602 in
the wing of the Small Magellanic Cloud covering a range of wavelengths from
optical HST/ACS (F555W, F814W) and SMARTS/ANDICAM (V, I) to infrared
(Spitzer/IRAC 3.6, 4.5, 5.8, and 8 micron and MIPS 24 micron). Combining this
with IRSF (InfraRed Survey Facility) near-infrared photometry (J, H, Ks), we
compare the young main sequence (MS) and pre-main sequence (PMS) populations
prominent in the optical with the current young stellar object (YSO)
populations revealed by the infrared (IR). We analyze the MS and PMS population
with isochrones in color-magnitude diagrams to derive ages and masses. The
optical data reveal ~565 PMS candidates, low mass Stage III YSOs. We
characterize ~40 YSOs by fitting their spectral energy distributions (SEDs) to
a grid of models (Robitaille et al. 2007) to derive luminosities, masses and
evolutionary phase (Stage I-III). The higher resolution HST images reveal that
~70% of the YSO candidates are either multiples or protoclusters. For YSOs and
PMS sources found in common, we find a consistency in the masses derived. We
use the YSO mass function to derive a present-day star-formation rate of
~0.2-1.0 Msun/yr/kpc^2, similar to the rate derived from the optical star
formation history suggesting a constant star formation rate for this region. We
demonstrate a progression of star formation from the optical star cluster
center to the edge of the star forming dust cloud. We derive lifetimes of a few
10^5 years for the YSO Stages I and II.