We present the first results on the identification and study of very distant
field galaxies in the core of cluster-lenses, using a selection criterium based
on both lens modelling and photometric redshifts. We concentrate on two
multiple-imaged sources at z=4.05 in the cluster A2390. The 2 objects presented
in this paper, namely H3 and H5, were identified through lens modelling as
multiple images of high-redshift sources at z>3.5. We confirm the excellent
agreement between this identification and both their photometric redshifts and
morphologies. Our CFHT/WHT program for a systematic redshift survey of arcs in
clusters has allowed to obtain a set of spectra on 3 different images at z~4:
the brightest image of H3, which redshift was already confirmed by Frye &
Broadhurst (1998), and the two brightest images of H5. The later is then
confirmed spectroscopically as a multiple image, giving a strong support to the
lens model. The main feature in each of these spectra is a strong emission
line, identified as Ly-alpha, leading to z=4.05 for both H3 and H5. The
spectrophotometric properties of these galaxies are studied, in particular the
degeneracy in the parameter-space defined by the SFR type, age, metallicity and
reddening. H3 and H5 are intrinsically bright and clumpy sources located ~100
kpc part on the source plane, with mean metallicities compatible with a
fraction of solar or even solar values. All these results seem to favour a
hierarchical merging scenario, where we are actually seeing a relatively
advanced step for these 2 z~4 objects, with stars forming locally and
efficiently from a preenriched gas.