We analyze the PCMDI/CMIP3 simulations performed by climate models (CMs)
using pre-industrial and SRESA1B scenarios. Relatively large biases are present
for most CMs when global energy budgets and when the atmospheric, oceanic, and
land budgets are considered. Apparently, the biases do not result from
transient effects, but depend on the imperfect closure of the energy cycle in
the fluid components and on inconsistencies over land. Therefore, the planetary
emission temperature is underestimated. This may explain the CMs' cold bias. In
the pre-industrial scenario, CMs agree on the location in the mid-latitudes of
the peaks of the meridional atmospheric enthalpy transport, while large
discrepancies exist on the intensity. Disagreements on the location and
intensity of the oceanic transport peaks are serious. With increased $CO_2$
concentration, a small poleward shift of the peak and an increase in the
intensity of the atmospheric transport of up to 10% are detected in both
hemispheres. Instead, most CMs feature a decrease in the oceanic transport
intensity in the northern hemisphere and an equatorward shift of the peak in
both hemispheres. The Bjerkens compensation mechanism is active both on
climatological and interannual time scales. The peak of the total meridional
transport is typically around $35^\circ$ in both hemispheres and scenarios,
whereas disagreements on the intensity are relevant. With increased $CO_2$
concentration, the total transport increases by up to 10%, thus contributing to
polar amplification. Advances in the representation of physical processes are
definitely needed for providing a self-consistent representation of climate as
a non-equilibrium thermodynamical system.