We study 203 extended X-ray sources in the Swift GRB fields that are located
within the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) DR8 footprint. We search for galaxy
over-densities in three-dimensional space using SDSS galaxies and their
photometric redshifts near the Swift cluster candidates. We find 103 Swift
clusters with a >3 sigma over-density. The remaining targets are potentially
located at higher redshifts and require deeper optical follow-up observations
for confirmations as galaxy clusters. We present a series of cluster properties
including the redshift, BCG magnitude, BCG-to-X-ray center offset, optical
richness, and X-ray luminosity. We also detect red sequences in almost half of
the 103 confirmed clusters. The X-ray luminosity and optical richness for the
SDSS confirmed Swift clusters are correlated and follow previously established
relations. The distribution of the separations between the X-ray centroids and
the most likely BCG is also consistent with expectation. We compare the
observed redshift distribution of the sample with a theoretical model, and find
that our sample is complete for z < 0.3 and is still 80% complete up to z <
0.4, consistent with the survey depth of SDSS. These analysis results suggest
that our Swift cluster selection algorithm has yielded a statistically
well-defined cluster sample for further studying cluster evolution and
cosmology. We also match our SDSS confirmed Swift clusters to existing cluster
catalogs, and find 42, 2 and 1 matches in optical, X-ray and SZ catalogs,
respectively, so the majority of these clusters are new detections.