Context : Penumbrae are an important characteristic of sunspots, whose
formation is intricately related to the nature of sub-photospheric magnetic
fields. Aims : We study the formation of a penumbra in a decaying sunspot and
compare its properties with those seen during the development of a proto-spot.
Methods : High-resolution spectropolarimetric observations of active region
NOAA 11283 were obtained from the spectro-polarimeter on board Hinode. These
were complemented with full-disk filtergrams of continuum intensity,
line-of-sight magnetograms, and dopplergrams from the Helioseismic and Magnetic
Imager at high cadence. Results : The formation of a penumbra in the decaying
sunspot occurs after the coalescence of the sunspot with a magnetic
fragment/pore, which initially formed in the quiet Sun close to an emerging
flux region. At first, a smaller set of penumbral filaments develop near the
location of the merger with very bright penumbral grains with intensities of
1.2 I_QS, upflows of 4 km/s, and a lifetime of 10 hr. During the decay of these
filaments, a larger segment of a penumbra forms at the location of the
coalescence. These new filaments are characterized by nearly supersonic
downflows of 6.5 km/s that change to a regular Evershed flow nearly 3 hr later.
Conclusions : The coalescence of the pore with the decaying sunspot provided
sufficient magnetic flux for the penumbra to form in the sunspot. The emerging
flux region could have played a decisive role in this process because the
formation occurred at the location of the merger and not on the opposite side
of the sunspot.