We present images of the J=10-9 rotational lines of HC3N in the vibrationally
excited levels 1v7, 1v6 and 1v5 of the hot core (HC) in Orion KL. The images
show that the spatial distribution and the size emission from the 1v7 and 1v5
levels are different. While the J=10-9 1v7 line has a size of 4''x 6'' and
peaks 1.1'' NE of the 3 mm continuum peak, the J=10--9 1v5 line emission is
unresolved (<3'') and peaks 1.3'' south of the 3 mm peak. This is a clear
indication that the HC is composed of condensations with very different
temperatures (170 K for the 1v7 peak and $>230$ K for the 1v5 peak). The
temperature derived from the 1v7 and 1v5 lines increases with the projected
distance to the suspected main heating source I. Projection effects along the
line of sight could explain the temperature gradient as produced by source I.
However, the large luminosity required for source I, >5 10^5 Lsolar, to explain
the 1v5 line suggests that external heating by this source may not dominate the
heating of the HC. Simple model calculations of the vibrationally excited
emission indicate that the HC can be internally heated by a source with a
luminosity of 10^5 Lsolar, located 1.2'' SW of the 1v5 line peak (1.8'' south
of source I). We also report the first detection of high-velocity gas from
vibrationally excited HC3N emission. Based on excitation arguments we conclude
that the main heating source is also driving the molecular outflow. We
speculate that all the data presented in this letter and the IR images are
consistent with a young massive protostar embedded in an edge-on disk.