(abridged) A complete census of planetary systems around a volume-limited
sample of solar-type stars (FGK dwarfs) in the Solar neighborhood with uniform
sensitivity down to Earth-mass planets within their Habitable Zones out to
several AUs would be a major milestone in extrasolar planets astrophysics. This
fundamental goal can be achieved with a mission concept such as NEAT - the
Nearby Earth Astrometric Telescope. NEAT is designed to carry out space-borne
extremely-high-precision astrometric measurements sufficient to detect
dynamical effects due to orbiting planets of mass even lower than Earth's
around the nearest stars. Such a survey mission would provide the actual
planetary masses and the full orbital geometry for all the components of the
detected planetary systems down to the Earth-mass limit. The NEAT performance
limits can be achieved by carrying out differential astrometry between the
targets and a set of suitable reference stars in the field. The NEAT instrument
design consists of an off-axis parabola single-mirror telescope, a detector
with a large field of view made of small movable CCDs located around a fixed
central CCD, and an interferometric calibration system originating from
metrology fibers located at the primary mirror. The proposed mission
architecture relies on the use of two satellites operating at L2 for 5 years,
flying in formation and offering a capability of more than 20,000
reconfigurations (alternative option uses deployable boom). The NEAT primary
science program will encompass an astrometric survey of our 200 closest F-, G-
and K-type stellar neighbors, with an average of 50 visits. The remaining time
might be allocated to improve the characterization of the architecture of
selected planetary systems around nearby targets of specific interest (low-mass
stars, young stars, etc.) discovered by Gaia, ground-based high-precision
radial-velocity surveys.