We present detailed analysis of the gamma-ray flux variability and spectral
properties of the five radio-loud narrow line Seyfert 1 (RL-NLSy1) galaxies,
detected by the Large Area Telescope onboard the Fermi Gamma-ray Space
Telescope, namely 1H 0323+342, SBS 0846+513, PMN J0948+0022, PKS 1502+036, and
PKS 2004$-$447. The first three sources show significant flux variations
including the rapid variability of a few hours by 1H 0323+342. The average
gamma-ray spectrum of 1H 0323+342 and PMN J0948+0022 shows deviation from a
simple power law (PL) behavior, whereas for other three sources, PL model gives
better fit. The spectra of 1H 0323+342, SBS 0846+513, and PMN J0948+0022,
respectively in low, flaring, and moderately active states, show significant
curvature. Such curvature in the gamma-ray spectrum of 1H 0323+342 and PMN
J0948+0022 can be due to emission region located inside the broad line region
(BLR) where the primary mechanism of the gamma-ray emission is inverse-Compton
(IC) scattering of BLR photons occurring in the Klein-Nishina regime. The
gamma-ray emission of SBS 0846+513 is explained by IC scattering of dusty torus
photons which puts the emission region to be outside the BLR and thus under the
Thomson regime. Therefore, the observed curvature of SBS 0846+513 could be
intrinsic to the particle energy distribution. The presence of curvature in the
gamma-ray spectrum and flux variability amplitudes of some of the RL-NLSy1
galaxies suggest that these sources could be akin to low/moderate jet power
flat spectrum radio quasars.