The AGBNP2 implicit solvent model, an evolution of the Analytical Generalized
Born plus Non-Polar (AGBNP) model we have previously reported, is presented
with the aim of modeling hydration effects beyond those described by
conventional continuum dielectric representations. A new empirical hydration
free energy component based on a procedure to locate and score hydration sites
on the solute surface is introduced to model first solvation shell effects,
such as hydrogen bonding, which are poorly described by continuum dielectric
models. This new component is added to the Generalized Born and non-polar AGBNP
models which have been improved with respect to the description of the solute
volume description. We have introduced an analytical Solvent Excluding Volume
(SEV) model which reduces the effect of spurious high-dielectric interstitial
spaces present in conventional van der Waals representations of the solute
volume. The AGBNP2 model is parametrized and tested with respect to
experimental hydration free energies of small molecules and the results of
explicit solvent simulations. Modeling the granularity of water is one of the
main design principles employed for the the first shell solvation function and
the SEV model, by requiring that water locations have a minimum available
volume based on the size of a water molecule. We show that the new volumetric
model produces Born radii and surface areas in good agreement with accurate
numerical evaluations. The results of Molecular Dynamics simulations of a
series of mini-proteins show that the new model produces conformational
ensembles in substantially better agreement with reference explicit solvent
ensembles than the original AGBNP model with respect to both structural and
energetics measures.