We present RXTE monitoring observations of the Seyfert 2 galaxy Mrk 348
spanning a 6 month period. The time-averaged spectrum in the 3-20 keV band
shows many features characteristic of a Compton-thin Seyfert 2 galaxy, namely a
hard underlying power-law continuum (photon index = 1.8) with heavy soft X-ray
absorption (N_h ~ 10^23 cm^-2) plus measureable iron line emission (equivalent
width ~ 100 eV) and, at high energy, evidence for a reflection component (R <
1). During the first half of the monitoring period the X-ray continuum flux
from Mrk 348 remained relatively steady. However this was followed by a
significant brightening of the source (by roughly a factor of 4) with the
fastest change corresponding to a doubling of its X-ray flux on a timescale of
about 20 days. The flux increase was accompanied by a marked softening of X-ray
spectrum most likely attributable to a factor 3 decline in the intrinsic
line-of-sight column density. In contrast the iron line and the reflection
components showed no evidence of variability. These observations suggest a
scenario in which the central X-ray source is surrounded by a patchy
distribution of absorbing material located within about a light-week of the
nucleus of Mrk 348. The random movement of individual clouds within the
absorbing screen, across our line of sight, produces substantial temporal
variations in the measured column density on timescales of weeks to months and
gives rise to the observed X-ray spectral variability. However, as viewed from
the nucleus the global coverage and typical thickness of the cloud layer
remains relatively constant.