We present a spectrum of the cool (T_eff = 900 K) brown dwarf Gliese 229B.
This spectrum, with a relatively high signal-to-noise ratio per spectral
resolution element (> 30), spans the wavelength range from 0.837 microns to 5.0
microns. We identify a total of four different major methane absorption
features, including the fundamental band at 3.3 microns, at least four steam
bands, and two neutral cesium features. We confirm the recent detection of
carbon monoxide (CO) in excess of what is predicted by thermochemical
equilibrium calculations. Carbon is primarily involved in a chemical balance
between methane and CO at the temperatures and pressures present in the outer
parts of a brown dwarf. At lower temperatures, the balance favors methane,
while in the deeper, hotter regions, the reaction reverses to convert methane
into CO. The presence of CO in the observable part of the atmosphere is
therefore a sensitive indicator of vertical flows. The high signal-to-noise
ratio in the 1 to 2.5 microns region permits us to place constraints on the
quantity of dust in the atmosphere of the brown dwarf. We are unable to
reconcile the observed spectrum with synthetic spectra that include the
presences of dust. The presence of CO but lack of dust may be a clue to the
location of the boundaries of the outer convective region of the atmosphere:
The lack of dust may mean that it is not being conveyed into the photosphere by
convection, or that it exists in patchy clouds. If the dust is not in clouds,
but rather sits below the outer convective region, we estimate that the
boundary between outer convective and inner radiative layers is between 1250 K
and 1600 K, in agreement with recent models.