We present a study of the morphology and intensity of star formation in the
host galaxies of eight Palomar-Green quasars using observations with the Hubble
Space Telescope. Our observations are motivated by recent evidence for a close
relationship between black hole growth and the stellar mass evolution in its
host galaxy. We use narrow-band [O II] $\lambda$3727, H$\beta$, [O III]
$\lambda$5007 and Pa$\alpha$ images, taken with the WFPC2 and NICMOS
instruments, to map the morphology of line-emitting regions, and, after
extinction corrections, diagnose the excitation mechanism and infer
star-formation rates. Significant challenges in this type of work are the
separation of the quasar light from the stellar continuum and the
quasar-excited gas from the star-forming regions. To this end, we present a
novel technique for image decomposition and subtraction of quasar light. Our
primary result is the detection of extended line-emitting regions with sizes
ranging from 0.5 to 5 kpc and distributed symmetrically around the nucleus,
powered primarily by star formation. We determine star-formation rates of order
a few tens of M$_\odot$/yr. The host galaxies of our target quasars have
stellar masses of order $10^{11}$ M$_\odot$ and specific star formation rates
on a par with those of M82 and luminous infrared galaxies. As such they fall at
the upper envelope or just above the star-formation mass sequence in the
specific star formation vs stellar mass diagram. We see a clear trend of
increasing star formation rate with quasar luminosity, reinforcing the link
between the growth of the stellar mass of the host and the black hole mass
found by other contributors.