The protostellar jet driven by L1448C was observed in the SiO J=8-7 and CO
J=3-2 lines and 350 GHz dust continuum at ~1" resolution with the Submillimeter
Array (SMA). A narrow jet from the northern source L1448C(N) was observed in
the SiO and the high-velocity CO. The jet consists of a chain of emission knots
with an inter-knot spacing of ~2" (500 AU) and a semi-periodic velocity
variation. The innermost pair of knots, which are significant in the SiO map
but barely seen in the CO, are located at ~1" (250 AU) from the central source,
L1448C(N). Since the dynamical time scale for the innermost pair is only ~10
yr, SiO may have been formed in the protostellar wind through the gas-phase
reaction, or been formed on the dust grain and directly released into the gas
phase by means of shocks. It is found that the jet is extremely active with a
mechanical luminosity of ~7 L_sun, which is comparable to the bolometric
luminosity of the central source (7.5 L_sun). The mass accretion rate onto the
protostar derived from the mass-loss rate is ~10^{-5} M_sun/yr. Such a high
mass accretion rate suggests that the mass and the age of the central star are
0.03-0.09 M_sun and (4-12)x10^3 yr, respectively, implying that the central
star is in the very early stage of protostellar evolution. The low-velocity CO
emission delineates two V-shaped shells with a common apex at L1448C(N). The
kinematics of these shells are reproduced by the model of a wide opening angle
wind. The co-existence of the highly-collimated jets and the wide-opening angle
shells can be explained by the unified X-wind model" in which highly-collimated
jet components correspond to the on-axis density enhancement of the
wide-opening angle wind. The CO $J$=3--2 map also revealed the second outflow
driven by the southern source L1448C(S) located at ~8.3" (2000 AU) from
L1448C(N).