We present a census of the population of deeply embedded young stellar
objects (YSOs) in the Perseus molecular cloud complex based on a combination of
Spitzer Space Telescope mid-IR data from the c2d legacy team and JCMT/SCUBA
submillimeter maps from the COMPLETE team. The mid-IR sources detected at 24
micron and having [3.6]-[4.5] > 1 are located close to the center of the SCUBA
cores, typically within 15" of their peaks. The narrowness of the spatial
distribution of mid-IR sources around the peaks of the SCUBA cores suggests
that no significant dispersal of the newly formed YSOs has occurred. This
argues against the suggestion that motions of protostars regulate the time
scales over which significant (Bondi-Hoyle) accretion can occur. The most
deeply embedded YSOs are found in regions with high extinction, AV > 5, similar
to the extinction threshold observed for the SCUBA cores. All the SCUBA cores
with high concentrations have embedded YSOs, but not all cores with low
concentrations are starless. An unbiased sample of 49 deeply embedded YSOs is
constructed. Embedded YSOs are found in 40 of the 72 SCUBA cores with only
three cores harboring multiple embedded YSOs within 15". The equal number of
SCUBA cores with and without embedded YSOs suggests that the time scale for the
evolution through the dense prestellar stages, where the cores are recognized
in the submillimeter maps and have central densities of 5e4-1e5 cm^{-3}, is
similar to the time scale for the embedded protostellar stages. The current
star formation efficiency of cores is estimated to be approximately 10-15%. In
contrast, the star formation efficiency averaged over the cloud life time and
compared to the total cloud mass is only a few percent, reflecting also the
efficiency in assembling cloud material into the dense cores forming stars.