The majority of debris discs discovered so far have only been detected
through infrared excess emission above stellar photospheres. While disc
properties can be inferred from unresolved photometry alone under various
assumptions for the physical properties of dust grains, there is a degeneracy
between disc radius and dust temperature that depends on the grain size
distribution and optical properties. By resolving the disc we can measure the
actual location of the dust. The launch of Herschel, with an angular resolution
superior to previous far-infrared telescopes, allows us to spatially resolve
more discs and locate the dust directly. Here we present the nine resolved
discs around A stars between 20 and 40 pc observed by the DEBRIS survey. We use
these data to investigate the disc radii by fitting narrow ring models to
images at 70, 100 and 160 {\mu}m and by fitting blackbodies to full spectral
energy distributions. We do this with the aim of finding an improved way of
estimating disc radii for unresolved systems. The ratio between the resolved
and blackbody radii varies between 1 and 2.5. This ratio is inversely
correlated with luminosity and any remaining discrepancies are most likely
explained by differences to the minimum size of grain in the size distribution
or differences in composition. We find that three of the systems are well fit
by a narrow ring, two systems are borderline cases and the other four likely
require wider or multiple rings to fully explain the observations, reflecting
the diversity of planetary systems.