Recently growing evidence has been accumulated that the NLS1s are viewed from
nearly pole-on viewing angles. However, there has been no theoretical model
which explains the following important correlations; 1) weaker optical Fe II
emitters always have wider emission-line widths but stronger optical Fe II
emitters have either wider or narrower line widths, and 2) S1s with wider line
widths always have flatter soft X-ray spectra but S1s with narrower line widths
have either steeper or flatter soft X-ray spectra.
  Photoionization models predict that the partly-ionized zone in the broad line
region (BLR) with a disk-like configuration, in which the optical Fe II
emission is thought to arise, is very optically thick. If we observe this
disk-like BLR from an inclined viewing angle, the Fe II emitting region located
in the far-side half disk cannot be seen entirely because of the large optical
depth while almost all the Hbeta emission can be seen because the ionized
hydrogen is located in the outer surfaces of BLR clouds. This explains that the
Fe II/Hbeta ratio depends on viewing angle.
  Recent discovery of relativistic outflows in some NLS1s suggests that the
nuclear radio jet interacts with the dense ambient gas very close to the
central engine. The kinetic Doppler effect increases the soft X-ray
luminosities if we observe S1s from a nearly pole-on view given the above range
of beta. These explain why NLS1s tend to have steeper soft X-ray spectra
together with higher soft X-ray luminosities. Furthermore, the extinction of
soft X-ray photons due to dust grain above the dusty tori are expected to more
serious for the BLS1s than for the NLS1s. We thus suggest that these
orientation effects are responsible for the second important correlation.