We investigate least-squares fitting methods for estimating the winding rate
of field lines about the axis of twisted magnetic-flux tubes. These methods
estimate the winding rate by finding the values for a set of parameters that
correspond to the minimum of the discrepancy between magnetic-field
measurements and predictions from a twisted flux-tube model. For the flux-tube
model used in the fitting, we assume that the magnetic field is static,
axisymmetric, and does not vary in the vertical direction. Using error-free,
synthetic vector magnetic-field data constructed with models for twisted
magnetic-flux tubes, we test the efficacy of fitting methods at recovering the
true winding rate. Furthermore, we demonstrate how assumptions built into the
flux-tube models used for the fitting influence the accuracy of the
winding-rate estimates. We identify the radial variation of the winding rate
within the flux tube as one assumption that can have a significant impact on
the winding-rate estimates. We show that the errors caused by making a fixed,
incorrect assumption about the radial variation of the winding rate can be
largely avoided by fitting directly for the radial variation of the winding
rate. Other assumptions that we investigate include the lack of variation of
the field in the azimuthal and vertical directions in the flux tube model used
for the fitting, and the inclination, curvature, and location of the flux-tube
axis. When the observed field deviates substantially from the flux-tube model
used for the fitting, we find that the winding-rate estimates can be
unreliable. We conclude that the magnetic-flux tube models used in this
investigation are probably too simple to yield reliable estimates for the
winding rate of the field lines in solar magnetic structures in general, unless
additional information is available to justify the choice of flux-tube model
used for the fitting.