The spatial random-effects model is flexible in modeling spatial covariance
functions, and is computationally efficient for spatial prediction via fixed
rank kriging. However, the success of this model depends on an appropriate set
of basis functions. In this research, we propose a class of basis functions
extracted from thin-plate splines. These functions are ordered in terms of
their degrees of smoothness with a higher-order function corresponding to
larger-scale features and a lower-order one corresponding to smaller-scale
details, leading to a parsimonious representation for a nonstationary spatial
covariance function. Consequently, only a small to moderate number of functions
are needed in a spatial random-effects model. The proposed class of basis
functions has several advantages over commonly used ones. First, we do not need
to concern about the allocation of the basis functions, but simply select the
total number of functions corresponding to a resolution. Second, only a small
number of basis functions is usually required, which facilitates computation.
Third, estimation variability of model parameters can be considerably reduced,
and hence more precise covariance function estimates can be obtained. Fourth,
the proposed basis functions depend only on the data locations but not the
measurements taken at those locations, and are applicable regardless of whether
the data locations are sparse or irregularly spaced. In addition, we derive a
simple close-form expression for the maximum likelihood estimates of model
parameters in the spatial random-effects model. Some numerical examples are
provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.