We present further development of a pulsar emission model based on multiple
streams diverging away from the magnetic dipole axis, and forming
azimuthally-structured fan-shaped beams. It is shown that this geometry,
successfully tested on profiles with bifurcated features, naturally solves
several classical pulsar problems and avoids some difficulties of the
traditional nested cone/core model. This is best visible for profiles with
several components, such as those of class T, Q and M, because they most
clearly exhibit a range of effects previously interpreted within the conal
model. In particular, with no reference to the flaring boundary of the polar
magnetic flux tube, the stream model explains the apparent radius-to-frequency
mapping (RFM), including its reduced strength for the inner pair of components.
The lag of the central component (apparent `core') with respect to the
centroids of the flanking (`conal') components can also be naturally explained
with no reference to emission rings located at disparate altitudes. The stream
model also reveals why the millisecond pulsars, despite their more strongly
flaring magnetic field lines, do not exhibit as strong RFM as the normal
pulsars. The model is then successful in reproducing properties of so disparate
objects as the M-class and millisecond pulsars, including some peculiarities of
the latter. With no hesitation we, therefore, advance the view that pulsars
have fan beams generated by outflowing streams, whereas the nested cone/core
beams may well not exist at all.