Gravitational waves from compact objects provide information about their
structure, probing deep into strong-gravity regions. Here we illustrate how the
presence or absence of an event horizon can produce qualitative differences in
the gravitational waves emitted by ultra-compact objects. In order to set up a
straw-man ultra-compact object with no event horizon, but which is otherwise
almost identical to a black hole, we consider a nonrotating thin-shell model
inspired by Mazur and Mottola's gravastar, which has a Schwarzschild exterior,
a de Sitter interior and an infinitely thin shell with finite tension
separating the two regions. As viewed from the external space-time, the shell
can be located arbitrarily close to the Schwarzschild radius, so a gravastar
might seem indistinguishable from a black hole when tests are only performed on
its external metric. We study the linearized dynamics of the system, and in
particular the junction conditions connecting internal and external
gravitational perturbations. As a first application of the formalism we compute
polar and axial oscillation modes of a thin-shell gravastar. We show that the
quasinormal mode spectrum is completely different from that of a black hole,
even in the limit when the surface redshift becomes infinite. Polar QNMs depend
on the equation of state of matter on the shell and can be used to distinguish
between different gravastar models. Our calculations suggest that
low-compactness gravastars could be unstable when the sound speed on the shell
vs/c>0.92.