We present multiwavelength studies of the 106.6 ms gamma-ray pulsar PSR
J1907+06 near the TeV source MGRO J1908+06. Timing observations with Fermi
result in a precise position determination for the pulsar of R.A. =
19h07m547(2), decl. = +06:02:16(2) placing the pulsar firmly within the TeV
source extent, suggesting the TeV source is the pulsar wind nebula of PSR
J1907+0602. Pulsed gamma-ray emission is clearly visible at energies from 100
MeV to above 10 GeV. The phase-averaged power-law index in the energy range E >
0.1 GeV is = 1.76 \pm 0.05 with an exponential cutoff energy E_{c} = 3.6 \pm
0.5 GeV. We present the energy-dependent gamma-ray pulsed light curve as well
as limits on off-pulse emission associated with the TeV source. We also report
the detection of very faint (flux density of ~3.4 microJy) radio pulsations
with the Arecibo telescope at 1.5 GHz having a dispersion measure DM = 82.1 \pm
1.1 cm^{-3}pc. This indicates a distance of 3.2 \pm 0.6 kpc and a
pseudo-luminosity of L_{1400} ~ 0.035 mJy kpc^2. A Chandra ACIS observation
revealed an absorbed, possibly extended, compact <(4 arcsec) X-ray source with
significant non-thermal emission at R.A. = 19h07m54.76, decl. = +06:02:14.6
with a flux of 2.3^{+0.6}_{-1.4} X 10^{-14} erg cm^{-2} s^{-1}. From archival
ASCA observations, we place upper limits on any arcminute scale 2--10 keV X-ray
emission of ~ 1 X 10^{-13} erg cm^{-2} s^{-1}. The implied distance to the
pulsar is compatible with that of the supernova remnant G40.5-0.5, located on
the far side of the TeV nebula from PSR J1907+0602, and the S74 molecular cloud
on the nearer side which we discuss as potential birth sites.