Observations of the "Warm Ionized Medium" (or, equivalently, the "Diffuse
Ionized Gas") of the local ISM, the Perseus arm in the Milky Way, and also in
several other galaxies show strong [NII]6563 (~H-alpha in some cases) and
[SII]6717/[NII]6583 = 0.6 - 0.7 in all locations and objects. Other line ratios
(e.g., [O III]5007/H-beta) vary considerably. Simple photoionization models
reproduce the observed spectra, providing extra heating beyond that supplied by
photoionization is assumed (Reynolds, Haffner, & Tufte 1999). With observed
gas-phase abundances (not solar), the line ratios in the local arm at b = 0 deg
are fitted with no extra heating and (S/H) = 13 ppm (solar is 20 ppm). Local
gas observed at b = -35 deg requires extra heating of about gamma = 0.75, where
gamma is the extra heating in units of 10^{-25} erg H^{-1} s^{-1}. In the
Perseus arm, there are similar results, with a domposition consistent with the
Galactic abundance gradient. The requirements for NGC 891 are similar to the
Perseus arm: little or no extra heating at |z| = 1 kpc and gamma 3 at 2 kpc. In
NGC 891 there is also an increase of 5007/H-alpha with |z| that can only come
about if most of the ionizing radiation is supplied by stars with T~50000 K.
Either their radiation must propagate from the plane to high |z| through very
little intervening matter, or else the stars are located at high |z|. The total
power requirement of the extra heating is <15% of the photoionization power.
[O~II]3727/H-beta can serve as a useful diagnostic of extra heating, but
[S~III] 9065,9531/H-alpha is not useful in this regard.