Subluminous B stars (sdBs) form the extremely hot end of the horizontal
branch and are therefore related to the blue horizontal branch (BHB) stars.
While the rotational properties of BHB stars have been investigated
extensively, studies of sdB stars have concentrated on close binaries that are
influenced by tidal interactions between their components. Here we present a
study of 105 sdB stars, which are either single stars or in wide binaries where
tidal effects become negligible. The projected rotational velocities have been
determined by measuring the broadening of metal lines using high-resolution
optical spectra. All stars in our sample are slow rotators (${v_{\rm
rot}\sin{i}}<10\,{\rm km\,s^{-1}}$). Furthermore, the $v_{\rm
rot}\sin{i}$-distributions of single sdBs are similar to those of hot subdwarfs
in wide binaries with main-sequence companions as well as close binary systems
with unseen companions and periods exceeding $\simeq1.2\,{\rm d}$. We show that
blue horizontal and extreme horizontal branch stars are also related in terms
of surface rotation and angular momentum. Hot blue horizontal branch stars
($T_{\rm eff}>11\,500\,{\rm K}$) with diffusion-dominated atmospheres are slow
rotators like the hot subdwarf stars located on the extreme horizontal branch,
which lost more envelope and therefore angular momentum in the red-giant phase.
The uniform rotation distributions of single and wide binary sdBs pose a
challenge to our understanding of hot subdwarf formation. Especially the high
fraction of helium white dwarf mergers predicted by theory seems to be
inconsistent with the results presented here.