We examine collisions between identical solitons in a weakly perturbed
Ablowitz-Ladik (AL) model, augmented by either onsite cubic nonlinearity (which
corresponds to the Salerno model, and may be realized as an array of strongly
overlapping nonlinear optical waveguides), or a quintic perturbation, or both.
Complex dependences of the outcomes of the collisions on the initial phase
difference between the solitons and location of the collision point are
observed. Large changes of amplitudes and velocities of the colliding solitons
are generated by weak perturbations, showing that the elasticity of soliton
collisions in the AL model is fragile (for instance, the Salerno's perturbation
with the relative strength of 0.08 can give rise to a change of the solitons'
amplitudes by a factor exceeding 2). Exact and approximate conservation laws in
the perturbed system are examined, with a conclusion that the small
perturbations very weakly affect the norm and energy conservation, but
completely destroy the conservation of the lattice momentum, which is explained
by the absence of the translational symmetry in generic nonintegrable lattice
models. Data collected for a very large number of collisions correlate with
this conclusion. Asymmetry of the collisions (which is explained by the
dependence on the location of the central point of the collision relative to
the lattice, and on the phase difference between the solitons) is investigated
too, showing that the nonintegrability-induced effects grow almost linearly
with the perturbation strength. Different perturbations (cubic and quintic
ones) produce virtually identical collision-induced effects, which makes it
possible to compensate them, thus finding a special perturbed system with
almost elastic soliton collisions.