We present submm images of Sgr A* and its surroundings obtained at 800, 600
and 450 $\mu$m with the JCMT and derive flux densities of Sgr A* at all three
wave- lengths. Combined with upper limits by Gezari and associates at MIR
wavelengths a time averaged radio spectrum is obtained which increases $\propto
\nu^{1/3}$, attains a maximum at $\nu_max \ga 600 GHz$ and must decrease
rapidly at fre- quencies $\ga 10^4$GHz. This spectrum allows for about $3
M}_\odot$ of 50K dust and associated hydrogen in the telescope beam. While
variations on time-scales of a few months are now well established for the
frequency range $\nu \la 100 GHz$, our investigation of variability at higher
frequencies still yields only marginal results. The Circum-Nuclear Disk (CND)
extends over the central 12 pc. At the galactocentric radius $R \sim 1 pc$ dust
and hydrogen column densities drop to low values and form the Central Cavity.
Our submm images show that the bottom of this cavity is rather flat. Variations
in the dust emission are just consistent with the detection of a `Tongue' of
$\sim 200 M_\odot$ of atomic hydrogen reported by Jackson et al. (1993) to be
located between the Northern and the Eastern Arm of the Minispiral. We present
a revised submm/IR spectrum of the central $30\arcsec$ (R$\la 0.6 pc$) with
flux densities corrected for an interstellar extinction of $A_v \sim 31 mag$.
This spectrum attains its maximum at $\lambda \sim 20 \mu m$ and comes from
dust with temperatures $\sim 170 - 400 K$ which is associated with the Eastern
Arm and the East-West Bar. The in- tegrated luminosity is $\sim 5 10^6 L_\odot$
to which emission at $\lambda \la 30 \mu m$ contributes $\sim 80\%$. Heating of
this dust is not provided by a central source but rather by a cluster of hot
($T eff \sim 3 - 3.5 10^4 K$) and luminous stars which could include the He{\sc
i}/H{\sc i}-stars detected by