A `habitable zone' of a star is defined as a range of orbits within which a
rocky planet can support liquid water on its surface. The most intriguing
question driving the search for habitable planets is whether they host life. If
we define habitability as our ability to detect life on the surface of
exoplanets, then age becomes a crucial parameter. Only after life had evolved
sufficiently complex to change its environment on a planetary scale, can we
detect it remotely through its imprint on the atmosphere --- the so-called
biosignatures, out of which the photosynthetic oxygen is the most prominent
indicator of the developed (complex) life as we know it. Photosynthesis is
currently the only known to us biogenic process that can provide sufficient
energy to change the global planetary properties. The importance of planetary
age for the detectability of life as we know it follows from the fact that this
primary process, photosynthesis, is endothermic with an activation energy
higher than temperatures in habitable zones, and is sensitive to the particular
thermal conditions of the planet. Therefore, the onset of photosynthesis on
planets in habitable zones may take much longer time than the planetary age.
The knowledge of the age of a habitable planet is necessary for developing a
strategy to search for exoplanets carrying complex (developed) life --- many
confirmed habitable planets are too young (orbiting Population~I stars) and may
not have had enough time to develop and/or sustain detectable life. In the last
decade, many planets orbiting old ($9-13$ Gyr) metal-poor Population~II stars
were discovered. Such planets had had enough time to develop necessary chains
of chemical reactions and may carry detectable life if located in a HZ. These
old planets shall be primary targets in search for the extraterrestrial life.