Some isolated Wolf-Rayet stars present random variability in their optical
flux and polarization. We make the assumption that such variability is caused
by the presence of regions of enhanced density, i.e. blobs, in their envelopes.
In order to find the physical characteristics of such regions we have modeled
the stellar emission using a Monte Carlo code to treat the radiative transfer
in an inhomogeneous electron scattering envelope. We are able to treat multiple
scattering in the regions of enhanced density as well as in the envelope
itself. The finite sizes of the source and structures in the wind are also
taken into account. Most of the results presented here are based on a parameter
study of models with a single blob. The effects due to multiple blobs in the
envelope are considered to a more limited extent. Our simulations indicate that
the density enhancements must have a large geometric cross section in order to
produce the observed photopolarimetric variability. The sizes must be of the
order of one stellar radius and the blobs must be located near the base of the
envelope. These sizes are the same inferred from the widths of the sub-peaks in
optical emission lines of Wolf-Rayet stars. Other early-type stars show random
polarimetric fluctuations with characteristics similar to those observed in
Wolf-Rayet stars, which may also be interpreted in terms of a clumpy wind.
Although the origin of such structures is still unclear, the same mechanism may
be working in different types of hot stars envelopes to produce such
inhomogeneities.