Shape differences are manifested in cortical structures due to
neuropsychiatric disorders. Such differences can be measured by labeled
cortical distance mapping (LCDM) which characterizes the morphometry of the
laminar cortical mantle of cortical structures. LCDM data consist of signed
distances of gray matter (GM) voxels with respect to GM/white matter (WM)
surface. Volumes and descriptive measures (such as means and variances) for
each subject and the pooled distances provide the morphometric differences
between diagnostic groups, but they do not reveal all the morphometric
information contained in LCDM distances. To extract more information from LCDM
data, censoring of the distances is introduced. For censoring of LCDM
distances, the range of LCDM distances is partitioned at a fixed increment
size; and at each censoring step, and distances not exceeding the censoring
distance are kept. Censored LCDM distances inherit the advantages of the pooled
distances. Furthermore, the analysis of censored distances provides information
about the location of morphometric differences which cannot be obtained from
the pooled distances. However, at each step, the censored distances aggregate,
which might confound the results. The influence of data aggregation is
investigated with an extensive Monte Carlo simulation analysis and it is
demonstrated that this influence is negligible. As an illustrative example, GM
of ventral medial prefrontal cortices (VMPFCs) of subjects with major
depressive disorder (MDD), subjects at high risk (HR) of MDD, and healthy
control (Ctrl) subjects are used. A significant reduction in laminar thickness
of the VMPFC and perhaps shrinkage in MDD and HR subjects is observed when
compared to Ctrl subjects. The methodology is also applicable to LCDM-based
morphometric measures of other cortical structures affected by disease.