One of the major challenges of modern cosmology is the detection of B-mode
polarization anisotropies in the CMB. These originate from tensor fluctuations
of the metric produced during the inflationary phase. Their detection would
therefore constitute a major step towards understanding the primordial
Universe. The expected level of these anisotropies is however so small that it
requires a new generation of instruments with high sensitivity and extremely
good control of systematic effects. We propose the QUBIC instrument based on
the novel concept of bolometric interferometry, bringing together the
sensitivity advantages of bolometric detectors with the systematics effects
advantages of interferometry. Methods: The instrument will directly observe the
sky through an array of entry horns whose signals will be combined together
using an optical combiner. The whole set-up is located inside a cryostat.
Polarization modulation will be achieved using a rotating half-wave plate and
interference fringes will be imaged on two focal planes (separated by a
polarizing grid) tiled with bolometers. We show that QUBIC can be considered as
a synthetic imager, exactly similar to a usual imager but with a synthesized
beam formed by the array of entry horns. Scanning the sky provides an
additional modulation of the signal and improve the sky coverage shape. The
usual techniques of map-making and power spectrum estimation can then be
applied. We show that the sensitivity of such an instrument is comparable with
that of an imager with the same number of horns. We anticipate a low level of
beam-related systematics thanks to the fact that the synthesized beam is
determined by the location of the primary horns. Other systematics should be
under good control thanks to an autocalibration technique, specific to our
concept, that will permit the accurate determination of most of the systematics
parameters.