It has also been suggested that the detection of a wealth of very low
amplitude modes in Delta Sct stars was only a matter of signal--to--noise
ratio. Access to this treasure, impossible from the ground, is one of the
scientific aims of the space mission CoRoT, a space mission developed and
operated by CNES. This work presents the results obtained on HD 50844: the
140,016 datapoints were analysed using independent approaches and several
checks performed. A level of 10^{-5} mag was reached in the amplitude spectra
of the CoRoT timeseries. The frequency analysis of the CoRoT timeseries
revealed hundreds of terms in the frequency range 0--30 d^{-1}. All the
cross--checks confirmed this new result. The initial guess that Delta Sct stars
have a very rich frequency content is confirmed. The spectroscopic mode
identification gives theoretical support since very high--degree modes (up to
ell=14) are identified. We also prove that cancellation effects are not
sufficient in removing the flux variations associated to these modes at the
noise level of the CoRoT measurements. The ground--based observations indicate
that HD 50844 is an evolved star that is slightly underabundant in heavy
elements, located on the Terminal Age Main Sequence. Probably due to this
unfavourable evolutionary status, no clear regular distribution is observed in
the frequency set. The predominant term (f_1=6.92 d^{-1}) has been identified
as the fundamental radial mode combining ground-based photometric and
spectroscopic data. This work is also based on observations made with ESO
telescopes under the ESO Large Programme LP178.D-0361 and on data collected at
the Observatorio de Sierra Nevada, at the Observatorio Astronomico Nacional San
Pedro Martir, and at the Piszkesteto Mountain Station of Konkoly Observatory.