Several previous experimental and theoretical studies have shown that a
leading edge vortex (LEV) on an airfoil or wing can provide lift enhancement.
In this paper, unsteady 2D potential flow theory is employed to model the flow
field of a flapping flat plate wing. A multi-vortices model is developed to
model both the leading edge and trailing edge vortices (TEVs), which offers
improved accuracy compared with using only single vortex at each separation
location. The lift is obtained by integrating the unsteady Blasius equation. It
is found that the motion of vortices contributes significantly to the overall
aerodynamic force on the flat plate. The shedding of TEVs and the stabilization
of LEVs explicitly contributes to lift enhancement. A Kutta-like condition is
used to determine the vortex intensity and location at the leading edge for
large angle of attack cases; however, it is proposed to relax this condition
for small angle of attack cases and apply a 2D shear layer model to calculate
the circulation of the new added vortex. The results of the simulation are then
compared with classical numerical, modeled and experimental data for canonical
unsteady flat plat problems. Good agreement with these data is observed.
Moreover, these results suggested that the leading edge vortex shedding for
small angles of attack should be modeled differently than that for large angles
of attack. Finally, the results of vortex motion vs. lift indicate that both a
motion against the streamwise direction of the LEV and a streamwise motion of
the TEV contributes positive lift. This also provides the insights for future
active flow control of MAVs that the formation and shedding process of LEVs and
TEVs can be manipulated to provide lift enhancement.