We have analyzed ASCA and ROSAT PSPC spectra and images of the galaxy cluster
Abell 2029. The ASCA spectra of the cluster indicate that the gas temperature
declines with radius. The PSPC image shows that the cluster is very regular and
smooth. Also, there is no significant evidence for any irregularities in the
temperature distribution in the cluster, as would be produced by a subcluster
merger. These results suggest that A2029 is a relaxed cluster, and that the gas
is in hydrostatic equilibrium. We use the assumption of equilibrium to
determine the gravitational mass of the cluster as a function of radius. At a
radius of 16' (1.92 h_50^-1 Mpc), the gravitational mass is M_tot =
(9.42+-4.22) x 10^14 h_50^-1 Msun, while the mass of gas is M_gas =
(2.52+-0.77) x 10^14 h_50^-5/2 Msun. The gas fraction is found to increase with
radius; within a spherical radius of 16', the fraction is (M_gas/M_tot) =
(0.26+-0.14) h_50^-3/2. The iron abundance in the gas is found to be
(0.40+-0.04) of solar. There is no significant evidence for any variation in
the abundance with position in the cluster. The global X-ray spectra, central
X-ray spectra, and ROSAT surface brightness all require a cooling flow at the
cluster center. The global X-ray spectrum implies that the total cooling rate
is 363^+79_-96 h_50^-2 Msun/yr. The global X-ray spectra are consistent with
the Galactic value for the soft X-ray absorption toward the cluster. The PSPC
spectra of the central regions of the cluster are inconsistent with the large
value of foreground excess absorption found by White et al. (1991) based on the
Einstein SSS spectrum. The upper limit on excess foreground absorption is 7.3 x
10^19 cm^-2. However, the spectra do not rule a significant amount of intrinsic
absorbing gas located within the cooling flow region.