Walking is a fundamental activity of our daily life not only for moving to
other places but also for interacting with surrounding environment. While
walking on the streets, pedestrians can be aware of attractions like shopping
windows. They can be influenced by the attractions and some of them might shift
their attention towards the attractions, namely switching behavior. As a first
step to incorporate the switching behavior, this study investigates collective
effects of switching behavior for an attraction by developing a behavioral
model. Numerical simulations exhibit different patterns of pedestrian behavior
depending on the strength of the social influence and the average length of
stay. When the social influence is strong along with a long length of stay, a
saturated phase can be defined at which all the pedestrians have visited the
attraction. If the social influence is not strong enough, an unsaturated phase
appears where one can observe that some pedestrians head for the attraction
while others walk in their desired direction. These collective patterns of
pedestrian behavior are summarized in a phase diagram by comparing the number
of pedestrians who visited the attraction to the number of passersby near the
attraction. Measuring the marginal benefits with respect to the strength of the
social influence and the average length of stay enables us to identify under
what conditions enhancing these variables would be more effective. The findings
from this study can be understood in the context of the pedestrian facility
management, for instance, for retail stores.