Smart energy grid is an emerging area for new applications of machine
learning in a non-stationary environment. Such a non-stationary environment
emerges when large-scale failures occur at power distribution networks due to
external disturbances such as hurricanes and severe storms. Power distribution
networks lie at the edge of the grid, and are especially vulnerable to external
disruptions. Quantifiable approaches are lacking and needed to learn
non-stationary behaviors of large-scale failure and recovery of power
distribution. This work studies such non-stationary behaviors in three aspects.
First, a novel formulation is derived for an entire life cycle of large-scale
failure and recovery of power distribution. Second, spatial-temporal models of
failure and recovery of power distribution are developed as geo-location based
multivariate non-stationary GI(t)/G(t)/Infinity queues. Third, the
non-stationary spatial-temporal models identify a small number of parameters to
be learned. Learning is applied to two real-life examples of large-scale
disruptions. One is from Hurricane Ike, where data from an operational network
is exact on failures and recoveries. The other is from Hurricane Sandy, where
aggregated data is used for inferring failure and recovery processes at one of
the impacted areas. Model parameters are learned using real data. Two findings
emerge as results of learning: (a) Failure rates behave similarly at the two
different provider networks for two different hurricanes but differently at the
geographical regions. (b) Both rapid- and slow-recovery are present for
Hurricane Ike but only slow recovery is shown for a regional distribution
network from Hurricane Sandy.