We aim at investigating with high angular resolution the NH3/N2H+ ratio
toward the high-mass star-forming region AFGL 5142 in order to study whether
this ratio behaves similarly to the low-mass case, for which the ratio
decreases from starless cores to cores associated with YSOs. CARMA was used to
observe the 3.2 mm continuum and N2H+(1-0) emission. We used NH3(1,1) and
(2,2), HCO+(1-0) and H13CO+(1-0) data from the literature and we performed a
time-dependent chemical modeling of the region. The 3.2 mm continuum emission
reveals a dust condensation of ~23 Msun associated with the massive YSOs,
deeply embedded in the strongest NH3 core (hereafter central core). The N2H+
emission reveals two main cores, the western and eastern core, located to the
west and to the east of the mm condensation, and surrounded by a more extended
and complex structure of ~0.5 pc. Toward the central core the N2H+ emission
drops significantly, indicating a clear chemical differentiation in the region.
We found low values of the NH3/N2H+ ratio ~50-100 toward the western/eastern
cores, and high values up to 1000 in the central core. The chemical model
indicates that density, and in particular temperature, are key parameters in
determining the NH3/N2H+ ratio. The high density and temperature reached in the
central core allow molecules like CO to evaporate from grain mantles. The CO
desorption causes a significant destruction of N2H+, favoring the formation of
HCO+. This result is supported by our observations, which show that N2H+ and
HCO+ are anticorrelated in the central core. The observed values of the
NH3/N2H+ ratio in the central core can be reproduced by our model for times
t~4.5-5.3x10^5 yr (central) and t~10^4-3x10^6 yr (western/eastern). The
NH3/N2H+ ratio in AFGL 5142 does not follow the same trend as in regions of
low-mass star formation mainly due to the high temperature reached in hot
cores.