As part of the WISH (Water In Star-forming regions with Herschel) key
project, we report on the observations of several ortho- and para-H2O lines
performed with the HIFI instrument towards two bright shock spots (R4 and B2)
along the outflow driven by the L1448 low-mass proto-stellar system, located in
the Perseus cloud. These data are used to identify the physical conditions
giving rise to the H2O emission and infer any dependence with velocity. These
observations provide evidence that the observed water lines probe a warm
(T_kin~400-600 K) and very dense (n 10^6 - 10^7 cm^-3) gas, not traced by other
molecules, such as low-J CO and SiO, but rather traced by mid-IR H2 emission.
In particular, H2O shows strong differences with SiO in the excitation
conditions and in the line profiles in the two observed shocked positions,
pointing to chemical variations across the various velocity regimes and
chemical evolution in the different shock spots. Physical and kinematical
differences can be seen at the two shocked positions. At the R4 position, two
velocity components with different excitation can be distinguished, with the
component at higher velocity (R4-HV) being less extended and less dense than
the low velocity component (R4-LV). H2O column densities of about 2 10^13 and 4
10^14 cm^-2 have been derived for the R4-LV and the R4-HV components,
respectively. The conditions inferred for the B2 position are similar to those
of the R4-HV component, with H2O column density in the range 10^14 - 5 10^14
cm^-2, corresponding to H2O/H2 abundances in the range 0.5 - 1 10^-5. The
observed line ratios and the derived physical conditions seem to be more
consistent with excitation in a low velocity J-type shock with large
compression rather than in a stationary C-shock, although none of these
stationary models seems able to reproduce all the characteristics of the
observed emission.