The detection of reflected light from an exoplanet is a difficult technical
challenge at optical wavelengths. Even though this signal is expected to
replicate the stellar signal, not only is it several orders of magnitude
fainter, but it is also hidden among the stellar noise. We apply a variant of
the cross-correlation technique to HARPS observations of 51 Peg to detect the
reflected signal from planet 51 Peg b. Our method makes use of the
cross-correlation function of a binary mask with high-resolution spectra to
amplify the minute planetary signal that is present in the spectra by a factor
proportional to the number of spectral lines when performing the cross
correlation. The resulting cross-correlation functions are then normalized by a
stellar template to remove the stellar signal. Carefully selected sections of
the resulting normalized CCFs are stacked to increase the planetary signal
further. The recovered signal allows probing several of the planetary
properties, including its real mass and albedo. We detect evidence for the
reflected signal from planet 51 Peg b at a significance of 3\sigma_noise. The
detection of the signal permits us to infer a real mass of 0.46^+0.06_-0.01
M_Jup (assuming a stellar mass of 1.04\;M_Sun) for the planet and an orbital
inclination of 80^+10_-19 degrees. The analysis of the data also allows us to
infer a tentative value for the (radius-dependent) geometric albedo of the
planet. The results suggest that 51Peg b may be an inflated hot Jupiter with a
high albedo (e.g., an albedo of 0.5 yields a radius of 1.9 \pm 0.3 R_Jup for a
signal amplitude of 6.0\pm0.4 x 10^-5). We confirm that the method we perfected
can be used to retrieve an exoplanet's reflected signal, even with current
observing facilities. The advent of next generation of observing facilities
will yield new opportunities for this type of technique to probe deeper into
exoplanets.