Highly polarized QSOs discovered in the Two-Micron All Sky Survey (2MASS)
have been observed to determine the source(s) of optical polarization in this
near-infrared color-selected sample. Broad emission lines are observed in the
polarized flux spectra of most objects, and the polarization of the lines is at
about the same level and position angle as the continuum. Generally, the
continuum is bluer and the broad-line Balmer decrement is smaller in polarized
light than for the spectrum of total flux. Narrow emission lines are much less
polarized than the broad lines and continuum for all polarized objects. These
properties favor scattering by material close to a partially obscured and
reddened active nucleus, but exterior to the regions producing the broad-line
emission, as the source of polarized flux in 2MASS QSOs. The largely
unpolarized narrow-line features require that the electrons or dust polarizing
the light be located at distances from the nucleus not much greater than the
extent of the narrow emission-line region. In addition to known
high-polarization objects, four 2MASS QSOs with AGN spectral types of 1.9 and 2
were observed to search for hidden broad emission-line regions. Broad lines
were detected in polarized light for two of these objects, and the polarizing
mechanism appears to be the same for these objects as for the highly polarized
QSOs in the sample that readily show broad emission lines in their spectra. The
observations also show that starlight from the host galaxy contributes a
significant amount of optical flux, especially for the narrow-line objects, and
support the suggestion that many 2MASS QSOs are measured to have low
polarization simply because of dilution of the polarized AGN light by the host
galaxy.