The Low Energy Neutron Source (LENS) is an accelerator-based pulsed cold
neutron facility under construction at the Indiana University Cyclotron
Facility (IUCF). The idea behind LENS is to produce pulsed cold neutron beams
starting with ~MeV neutrons from (p,n) reactions in Be which are moderated to
meV energies and extracted from a small solid angle for use in neutron
instruments which can operate efficiently with relatively broad (~1 msec)
neutron pulse widths. Although the combination of the features and operating
parameters of this source is unique at present, the neutronic design possesses
several features similar to those envisioned for future neutron facilities such
as long-pulsed spallation sources (LPSS) and very cold neutron (VCN) sources.
We describe the underlying ideas and design details of the
target/moderator/reflector system (TMR) and compare measurements of its
brightness, energy spectrum, and emission time distribution under different
moderator configurations with MCNP simulations. Brightness measurements using
an ambient temperature water moderator agree with MCNP simulations within the
20% accuracy of the measurement. The measured neutron emission time
distribution from a solid methane moderator is in agreement with simulation and
the cold neutron flux is sufficient for neutron scattering studies of
materials. We describe some possible modifications to the existing design which
would increase the cold neutron brightness with negligible effect on the
emission time distribution.