Results of the first comprehensive light pollution survey in Hong Kong are
presented. The night-sky brightness was measured and monitored around the city
using a portable light sensing device called the Sky Quality Meter over a
15-month period beginning in March 2008. A total of 1,957 data sets were taken
at 199 distinct locations, including urban and rural sites covering all 18
Administrative Districts of Hong Kong. The survey shows that the environmental
light pollution problem in Hong Kong is severe - the urban night-skies (sky
brightness at 15.0 mag per arcsec square) are on average ~100 times brighter
than at the darkest rural sites (20.1 mag per arcsec square), indicating that
the high lighting densities in the densely populated residential and commercial
areas lead to light pollution. In the worst polluted urban location studied,
the night-sky at 13.2 mag per arcsec square can be over 500 times brighter than
the darkest sites in Hong Kong. The observed night-sky brightness is found to
be affected by human factors such as land utilization and population density of
the observation sites, together with meteorological and/or environmental
factors. Moreover, earlier night-skies (at 9:30pm local time) are generally
brighter than later time (at 11:30pm), which can be attributed to some public
and commercial lightings being turned off later at night. On the other hand, no
concrete relationship between the observed sky brightness and air pollutant
concentrations could be established with the limited survey sampling. Results
from this survey will serve as an important database for the public to assess
whether new rules and regulations are necessary to control the use of outdoor
lightings in Hong Kong.