Decadal climate predictions, which are initialized with observed conditions,
are characterized by two main sources of uncertainties--internal and model
variabilities. Using an ensemble of climate model simulations from the CMIP5
decadal experiments, we quantified the total uncertainty associated with these
predictions and the relative importance of each source. Annual and monthly
averages of the surface temperature and wind components were considered. We
show that different definitions of the anomaly results in different conclusions
regarding the variance of the ensemble members. However, some features of the
uncertainty are common to all the measures we considered. We found that over
decadal time scales, there is no considerable increase in the uncertainty with
time. The model variability is more sensitive to the annual cycle than the
internal variability. This, in turn, results in a maximal uncertainty during
the winter in the northern hemisphere. The uncertainty of the surface
temperature prediction is dominated by the model variability, whereas the
uncertainty of the wind components is determined by both sources. Analysis of
the spatial distribution of the uncertainty reveals that the surface
temperature has higher variability over land and in high latitudes, whereas the
surface zonal wind has higher variability over the ocean. The relative
importance of the internal and model variabilities depends on the averaging
period, the definition of the anomaly, and the location. These findings suggest
that several methods should be combined in order to assess future climate
prediction uncertainties and that weighting schemes of the ensemble members may
reduce the uncertainties.