The cold dark matter (CDM) model has two unsolved issues: simulations
overpredict the satellite abundance around the Milky Way (MW) and it disagrees
with observations of the central densities of dwarf galaxies which prefer
constant density (core) profiles.One alternative explanation known as the
scalar field dark matter (SFDM) model, assumes that the dark matter is a scalar
field of mass($\sim 10^{-22}$ eV/$c^2$); this model can reduce the
overabundance issue due to the lack of halo formation below a mass scale of
$\sim 10^8$M$_{\odot}$ and successfully fits the density distribution in
dwarfs. One of the attractive features of the model is predicting core profiles
in halos, although the determination of the core sizes is set by fitting the
observational data. We perform \textit{N}-body simulations to explore the
influence of tidal forces over a stellar distribution embedded in a SFDM halo
orbiting a MW-like SFDM host halo with a disk. Our simulations intend to test
the viability of SFDM as an alternative model by comparing the tidal effects
that result in this paradigm with those obtained in CDM for similar mass halos.
We found that galaxies in subhalos with core profiles and high central
densities survive for 10 Gyr. The same occurs for galaxies in low density
subhalos located far from the host disk influence, whereas satellites in low
density DM halos and in tight orbits can eventually be stripped of stars. We
conclude that SFDM shows consistency with results from CDM for dwarf galaxies,
but naturally offer a possibility to solve the missing satellite problem.