We study the dynamical structure of a self-gravitating disc with corona
around a super-massive black hole. Assuming that the
magneto-rotational-instability (MRI) responsible for generating the turbulent
stresses inside the disc is also the source for a magnetically dominated
corona, a fraction of the power released when the disc matter accretes is
transported to and dissipated in the corona. This has major effect on the
structure of the disc and its gravitational (in)stability according to our
analytical and self-consistent solutions. We determine the radius where the
disc crosses the inner radius of gravitational instability and forms the first
stars. Not only the location of this radius which may extend to very large
distances from the central black hole, but also the mass of the first stars
highly depends on the input parameters, notably the viscous coefficient, mass
of the central object and the accretion rate. For accretion discs around
quasi-stellar objects (QSOs) and the Galactic center, we determine the
self-gravitating radius and the mass of the first clumps. Comparing the cases
with a corona and without a corona for typical discs around QSOs or the
Galactic center, when the viscosity coefficient is around 0.3, we show that the
self-gravitating radius decreases by a factor of approximately 2, but the mass
of the fragments increases with more or less the same factor. Existence of a
corona implies a more gravitationally unstable disc according to our results.
The effect of a corona on the instability of the disc is more effective when
the viscosity coefficient increases.