The HH54 shock is a Herbig-Haro object, located in the nearby Chamaeleon II
cloud. Observed CO line profiles are due to a complex distribution in density,
temperature, velocity, and geometry. Resolving the HH54 shock wave in the
far-infrared cooling lines of CO constrain the kinematics, morphology, and
physical conditions of the shocked region. We used the PACS and SPIRE
instruments on board the Herschel space observatory to map the full FIR
spectrum in a region covering the HH54 shock wave. Complementary Herschel-HIFI,
APEX, and Spitzer data are used in the analysis as well. The observed features
in the line profiles are reproduced using a 3D radiative transfer model of a
bow-shock, constructed with the Line Modeling Engine code (LIME). The FIR
emission is confined to the HH54 region and a coherent displacement of the
location of the emission maximum of CO with increasing J is observed. The peak
positions of the high-J CO lines are shifted upstream from the lower J CO lines
and coincide with the position of the spectral feature identified previously in
CO(10-9) profiles with HIFI. This indicates a hotter molecular component in the
upstream gas with distinct dynamics. The coherent displacement with increasing
J for CO is consistent with a scenario where IRAS12500-7658 is the exciting
source of the flow, and the 180 K bow-shock is accompanied by a hot (800 K)
molecular component located upstream from the apex of the shock and blueshifted
by -7 km s$^{-1}$. The spatial proximity of this knot to the peaks of the
atomic fine-structure emission lines observed with Spitzer and PACS ([OI]63,
145 $\mu$m) suggests that it may be associated with the dissociative shock as
the jet impacts slower moving gas in the HH54 bow-shock.