We propose a new method to constrain the location of microlensing objects
using EAGLE (Extremely Amplified Gravitational LEnsing) events. We have
estimated the rate of EAGLE events by taking the finite-source effect in to
account. We found that the EAGLE event rate for using a 1-m class telescope w
hose limiting magnitude is $V \sim 21$ is the same as or higher than that of
the ordinary microlensing events which have been found to date. We have also
found that the fraction of transit EAGLE events is large enough to detect:
between $4 \sim 80 % $ depending on the lens location. Since the lens proper
motion can be measured for a transit event, one can distinguish whether the
lens is a MACHO (MAssive Compact Halo Object) in our hal o or one of the known
stars in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) from the proper motion measurement
for each transit EAGLE event. Moreover, we show that the fraction of transit
EAGLEs in all EAGLE events signif icantly depends on the lensing locations: the
transit EAGLE fraction for the sel f-lensing case is $2 \sim 15$ times larger
than that for halo MACHOs. Thus, one can constrain the location of lens objects
by the statistics of the tr ansit events fraction. We show that we can
reasonably expect $0 \sim 6$ transit events out of 21 EAGLE events in 3 years.
We can also constrain the lens population properties at a gre ater than 99%
confidence level depending on the number of transit events de tected. We also
present the duration of EAGLE events, and show how an hourly ob servational
mode is more suitable for an EAGLE event search program.