We present BVI photometry of ten Seyfert 1 galaxies and narrow band H-alpha
images for six of these objects as well. The results indicate that the
luminosity sample distribution has an amplitude of almost 4 magnitudes with an
average of M_B=-20.7. The observed morphologies are confined to early type
galaxies. A barred structure is found in only 2 objects. Despite that early
morphological types are dominant in this sample, integrated (B-V) colors are
very blue. For instance, the SO galaxies show, on average, a (B-V)=0.78. This
effect seems to be caused by the luminosity contribution of the active nucleus
and/or the disk to the total luminosity of the galaxy. In the B band, the
contribution of the active galactic nucleus to the total luminosity of the
galaxy varies from 3% to almost 60% and the bulge to disk luminosity ratio
(L_bulge/L_disk) ranges from 0.6 to 22. Signs of tidal interactions seems to be
a common characteristic since they are observed in 6 of the objects and one of
them seems to be located in a poor cluster not yet identified in the
literature. H_alpha extended emission is rare, with only 1 galaxy showing clear
evidence of it. Luminosity profile decomposition shows that the model Gauss +
bulge + disk properly reproduces the surface brightness of the galaxies.
However, in order to account for the luminosity profile, most of the disk
galaxies needs the inner truncated exponential form with a central cutoff
radius ranging from 3 to 10 kpc. This is interpreted in terms of reddened
regions that are well identified in the B-V color maps. These regions present
very similar colors among them, with (B-V)~1.2. This fact could be associated
to the presence of dust confined in the inner regions of the galaxies.