The limits of reversible deformation in graphene under various loadings are
examined using lattice-dynamical stability analysis. This information is then
used to construct a comprehensive lattice-stability limit surface for graphene,
which provides an analytical description of incipient lattice instabilities of
\textit{all kinds}, for arbitrary deformations, parametrized in terms of
symmetry-invariants of strain/stress. Symmetry-invariants allow obtaining an
accurate parametrization with a minimal number of coefficients. Based on this
limit surface, we deduce a general continuum criterion for the onset of all
kinds of lattice-stabilities in graphene: an instability appears when the
magnitude of the deviatoric strain $\gamma$ reaches a critical value $\gamma^c$
which depends upon the mean hydrostatic strain $\bar {\mathcal E}$ and the
directionality $\theta$ of the deviatoric stretch. We also distinguish between
the distinct regions of the limit surface that correspond to
fundamentally-different mechanisms of lattice instabilities in graphene, such
as structural vs material instabilities, and long-wave (elastic) vs short-wave
instabilities. Utility of this limit surface is demonstrated in assessment of
incipient failures in defect-free graphene via its implementation in a
continuum Finite Elements Analysis (FEA). The resulting scheme enables
on-the-fly assessments of not only the macroscopic conditions (e.g., load;
deflection) but also the microscopic conditions (e.g., local stress/strain;
spatial location, temporal proximity, and nature of incipient lattice
instability) at which an instability occurs in a defect-free graphene sheet
subjected to an arbitrary loading condition.