Context: The solar rotation profile is conical rather than cylindrical as one
could expect from classical rotating fluid dynamics (e.g. Taylor-Proudman
theorem). Thermal coupling to the tachocline, baroclinic effects and
latitudinal transport of heat have been advocated to explain this peculiar
state of rotation. Aims: To test the validity of thermal wind balance in the
solar convection zone using helioseismic inversions for both the angular
velocity and fluctuations in entropy and temperature. Methods: Entropy and
temperature fluctuations obtained from 3-D hydrodynamical numerical simulations
of the solar convection zone are compared with solar profiles obtained from
helioseismic inversions. Results: The temperature and entropy fluctuations in
3-D numerical simulations have smaller amplitude in the bulk of the solar
convection zone than those found from seismic inversions. Seismic inversion
find variations of temperature from about 1 K at the surface up to 100 K at the
base of the convection zone while in 3-D simulations they are of order 10 K
throughout the convection zone up to 0.96 $R_{\odot}$. In 3-D simulations,
baroclinic effects are found to be important to tilt the isocontours of
$\Omega$ away from a cylindrical profile in most of the convection zone helped
by Reynolds and viscous stresses at some locations. By contrast the baroclinic
effect inverted by helioseismology are much larger than what is required to
yield the observed angular velocity profile. Conclusion: The solar convection
does not appear to be in strict thermal wind balance, Reynolds stresses must
play a dominant role in setting not only the equatorial acceleration but also
the observed conical angular velocity profile.