The observation of eclipses during X-rays flares taking place in active cool
stars binaries allows us to calculate the position and size of the flares. This
information cannot be derived by analyzing the decay of the flares, a
frequently used approach in the literature that requires the assumption of a
physical model. We make use of the eclipsing light curve to constrain the set
of possible solutions, from the geometrical point of view, in two flares of
Algol, and one flare in VW Cep. We make use of a technique developed with the
system SV Cam (i~90 deg) and generalize it to binary systems with arbitrary
inclination. The method simulates all possible geometrical situations that can
produce the times of the four contacts of the eclipse. As an approximation we
assume that the emitting region has a spherical shape that remains unchanged
during the eclipse. We however show that this is a good approximation for the
problem. The solutions observed indicate that in two of the three cases the
flare cannot be polar (lat<55 deg) and in a third one the flare can be placed
either near the pole or at other latitudes. The emitting regions must have a
small size (0.002-0.5 R_*), but if interpreted as the apex of coronal loops,
their length could actually be up to 3.1 R_* for one of the Algol flares. These
measurements imply a lower limit to the electron density in the emitting region
between log n_e(cm^-3) 10.4 and 14.0, and a magnetic field between 70 and 3500
G. Similar results are found if the emitting region is assumed to be
loop-shaped.