We present the properties of a group of young stars associated with the
well-studied T Tauri star system AS 353, located in the Aquila star-forming
region. The association is identified using radial velocity measurements of
sample objects selected from the Herbig and Bell Catalog based on their spatial
proximity to AS 353. Radial velocities of nine objects were measured from
multi-epoch high-resolution (R~30,000) H-band spectra obtained with NIRSPEC on
Keck II. High-resolution K-band spectra were also obtained for most of the
sample objects. Spectral types and rotational velocities are determined for all
objects in the sample. The multi-epoch H-band spectra were examined for radial
velocity variations in order to detect possible spectroscopic binaries. Eight
of the nine objects have radial velocities that are consistent within the
1-sigma scatter of the sample. From their mean of -8.6 km/s these eight objects
have a standard deviation of 2 km/s, which suggests that the sample stars are
related. The ninth object shows significant radial velocity variations between
epochs, characteristic of a spectroscopic binary. The overall multiplicity of
the sample is high; we observed 13 stars in seven systems, identifying three
new candidate binary components in this project. Many of the spectra reveal
hydrogen emission lines typical of strong accretion processes, indicating that
most of these objects harbor circumstellar disks and are less than a few
million years old. We discuss possible interpretations of the enigmatic pure
emission line spectrum of HBC 684. This work represents the highest spectral
resolution infrared observations to date of these intriguing, nearby young
stars.