High-resolution infrared spectroscopy in the 2.3-4.6 micron region is
reported for the peculiar A supergiant, single-lined spectroscopic binary HR
4049. Lines from the CO fundamental and first overtone, OH fundamental, and
several H2O vibration-rotation transitions have been observed in the
near-infrared spectrum. The spectrum of HR 4049 appears principally in emission
through the 3 and 4.6 micron region and in absorption in the 2 micron region.
The 4.6 micron spectrum shows a rich 'forest' of emission lines. All the
spectral lines observed in the 2.3-4.6 micron spectrum are shown to be
circumbinary in origin. The presence of OH and H2O lines confirm the
oxygen-rich nature of the circumbinary gas which is in contrast to the
previously detected carbon-rich material. The emission and absorption line
profiles show that the circumbinary gas is located in a thin, rotating layer
near the dust disk. The properties of the dust and gas circumbinary disk and
the spectroscopic orbit yield masses for the individual stars, M_AI~0.58 Msolar
and M_MV~0.34 Msolar. Gas in the disk also has an outward flow with a velocity
of $\gtrsim$ 1 km/s. The severe depletion of refractory elements but near-solar
abundances of volatile elements observed in HR 4049 results from abundance
winnowing. The separation of the volatiles from the grains in the disk and the
subsequent accretion by the star are discussed. Contrary to prior reports, the
HR 4049 carbon and oxygen isotopic abundances are typical AGB values:
12C/13C=6^{+9}_{-4} and 16O/17O>200.