We determine and study the ground states of a focusing Schr\"odinger equation
in dimension one with a power nonlinearity $|\psi|^{2\mu} \psi$ and a strong
inhomogeneity represented by a singular point perturbation, the so-called
(attractive) $\delta^\prime$ interaction, located at the origin. The
time-dependent problem turns out to be globally well posed in the subcritical
regime, and locally well posed in the supercritical and critical regime in the
appropriate energy space. The set of the (nonlinear) ground states is
completely determined. For any value of the nonlinearity power, it exhibits a
symmetry breaking bifurcation structure as a function of the frequency (i.e.,
the nonlinear eigenvalue) $\omega$. More precisely, there exists a critical
value $\om^*$ of the nonlinear eigenvalue $\om$, such that: if $\om_0 < \om <
\om^*$, then there is a single ground state and it is an odd function; if $\om
> \om^*$ then there exist two non-symmetric ground states. We prove that before
bifurcation (i.e., for $\om < \om^*$) and for any subcritical power, every
ground state is orbitally stable. After bifurcation ($\om =\om^*+0$), ground
states are stable if $\mu$ does not exceed a value $\mu^\star$ that lies
between 2 and 2.5, and become unstable for $\mu > \mu^*$. Finally, for $\mu >
2$ and $\om \gg \om^*$, all ground states are unstable. The branch of odd
ground states for $\om < \om^*$ can be continued at any $\om > \om^*$,
obtaining a family of orbitally unstable stationary states. Existence of ground
states is proved by variational techniques, and the stability properties of
stationary states are investigated by means of the Grillakis-Shatah-Strauss
framework, where some non standard techniques have to be used to establish the
needed properties of linearization operators.