The resonance structure in $^{11}$C is particularly of interest with regard
to the astrophysical $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $\gamma$) reaction, relevant at high
temperature, and to the $\alpha$-cluster structure in $^{11}$C. The measurement
was to determine unknown resonance parameters for the high excited states of
$^{11}$C. In particular, the $\alpha$ decay width can be useful information to
discuss $\alpha$ cluster structure in $^{11}$C. New measurements of the
$^{7}$Be+$\alpha$ resonant scattering and the $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $p$)$^{10}$B
reaction in inverse kinematics were performed for center-of-mass energy up to
5.5 MeV, and the resonances at excitation energies of 8.9--12.7 MeV in the
compound $^{11}$C nucleus were studied. Inelastic scattering of
$^{7}$Be+$\alpha$ and the $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $p_1$)$^{10}$B$^*$ reaction were
also studied with a simultaneous $\gamma$-ray measurement. The measurements
were performed at the low-energy RI beam facility CRIB (CNS Radioactive Ion
Beam separator) of the Center for Nuclear Study (CNS), the University of Tokyo.
We obtained excitation functions of $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $\alpha_0$)$^{7}$Be
(elastic scattering), $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $\alpha_1$)$^{7}$Be$^*$ (inelastic
scattering), $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $p_0$)$^{10}$B, and $^{7}$Be($\alpha$,
$p_1$)$^{10}$B$^*$. Many resonances including a new one were observed and their
parameters were determined by an R-matrix analysis. The resonances we observed
possibly enhance the $^{7}$Be($\alpha$, $\gamma$) reaction rate but in a
smaller magnitude than the lower-lying resonances. A new negative-parity
cluster band, similar to the one previously suggested in the mirror nucleus
$^{11}$B, is proposed.