Young massive stars and stellar clusters continuously form in the Galactic
disk, generating new HII regions within their natal giant molecular clouds and
subsequently enriching the interstellar medium via their winds and supernovae.
Massive stars are among the brightest infrared stars in such regions; their
identification permits the characterization of the star formation history of
the associated cloud as well as constraining the location of stellar aggregates
and hence their occurrence as a function of global environment. We present a
stellar spectroscopic survey in the direction of the giant molecular cloud
G23.3-0.3. This complex is located at a distance of ~ 4-5 kpc, and consists of
several HII regions and supernova remnants. We discovered 11 OfK+ stars, one
candidate Luminous Blue Variable, several OB stars, and candidate red
supergiants. Stars with K-band extinction from ~1.3 - 1.9 mag appear to be
associated with the GMC G23.3-0.3; O and B-types satisfying this criterion have
spectro-photometric distances consistent with that of the giant molecular
cloud. Combining near-IR spectroscopic and photometric data allowed us to
characterize the multiple sites of star formation within it. The O-type stars
have masses from 25 - 45 Msun, and ages of 5-8 Myr. Two new red supergiants
were detected with interstellar extinction typical of the cloud; along with the
two RSGs within the cluster GLIMPSE9, they trace an older burst with an age of
20--30 Myr. Massive stars were also detected in the core of three supernova
remnants - W41, G22.7-0.2, and G22.7583-0.4917. A large population of massive
stars appears associated with the GMC G23.3-0.3, with the properties inferred
for them indicative of an extended history of stars formation.