We made deep NIR imaging polarimetry toward the Serpens cloud core. The
polarization vector maps enable us to newly detect 24 small IR reflection
nebulae with YSOs. Polarization measurements of NIR point sources indicate an
hourglass-shaped magnetic field, of which symmetry axis is nearly perpendicular
to the elongation of the C18O (J=1-0) or submillimeter continuum emission. The
bright part of C18O (J=1-0), submillimeter continuum cores as well as many
class 0/I objects are located just toward the constriction region of the
hourglass-shaped magnetic field. Applying the CF method, the magnetic field
strength was estimated to be ~100 muG, suggesting that the ambient region of
the Serpens cloud core is moderately magnetically supercritical. These suggest
that the Serpens cloud core first contracted along the magnetic field to be an
elongated cloud, which is perpendicular to the magnetic field, and that then
the central part contracted cross the magnetic field due to the high density in
the central region of the cloud core, where star formation is actively
continuing. Comparison of this magnetic field with the previous observations of
molecular gas and large-scale outflows suggests a possibility that the cloud
dynamics is controlled by the magnetic field, protostellar outflows and
gravitational inflows. This appears to be in good agreement with the
outflow-driven turbulence model and implies the importance of the magnetic
field to continuous star formation in the center region of the cluster forming
region.