The only microlensing events towards the Magellanic Clouds for which the
location of the lens is strongly constrained are the two binary caustic
crossing events. In at least one and possibly both cases, the lens lies at, or
close to, the clouds themselves. On the face of it, this seems an improbable
occurrence if the Galactic dark halo provides the bulk of the lensing
population, as suggested by standard analyses of the MACHO dataset towards the
Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). We use a binomial statistic to assess the prior
probability of observing $M$ non-halo binary caustic events given a total
sample of $N$ caustic binaries. We generalize for the case of multi-component
Galactic and Magellanic Cloud models the Bayesian likelihood method for
determining the lens mass and halo fraction from the observed timescales. We
introduce a new statistic, the ``outcome discriminator'', which measures the
consistency between the binary caustic data, prior expectation, and the MACHO
LMC dataset as a whole. If the clouds are not embedded in their own dark halos
of MACHOs, then the discovery of two non-halo caustic binary events out of two
($M = N = 2$) is inconsistent with expectation given the MACHO dataset.
Galactic models in which $M = 1$ is the likeliest outcome are also inconsistent
with the data, though models in which $M = 1$ has a reasonable prior
probability are not. We consider the possibilities that the Magellanic Clouds
are embedded in dark haloes of their own, or that the Galactic halo is
intrinsically deficient in the binary systems which produce caustic crossing
events. Either of these possibilities provide greater compatibility between
observation and prior expectation, though the idea of Magellanic haloes is
perhaps the more natural of the two and has support from kinematical studies.