Public health surveillance aims at lessening disease burden, e.g., in case of
infectious diseases by timely recognizing emerging outbreaks. Seen from a
statistical perspective, this implies the use of appropriate methods for
monitoring time series of aggregated case reports. This paper presents the
tools for such automatic aberration detection offered by the R package
surveillance. We introduce the functionality for the visualization, modelling
and monitoring of surveillance time series. With respect to modelling we focus
on univariate time series modelling based on generalized linear models (GLMs),
multivariate GLMs, generalized additive models and generalized additive models
for location, shape and scale. This ranges from illustrating implementational
improvements and extensions of the well-known Farrington algorithm, e.g, by
spline-modelling or by treating it in a Bayesian context. Furthermore, we look
at categorical time series and address overdispersion using beta-binomial or
Dirichlet-Multinomial modelling. With respect to monitoring we consider
detectors based on either a Shewhart-like single timepoint comparison between
the observed count and the predictive distribution or by likelihood-ratio based
cumulative sum methods. Finally, we illustrate how surveillance can support
aberration detection in practice by integrating it into the monitoring workflow
of a public health institution. Altogether, the present article shows how well
surveillance can support automatic aberration detection in a public health
surveillance context.