The position-dependent exact-exchange energy per particle $\varepsilon_x(z)$
(defined as the interaction between a given electron at $z$ and its
exact-exchange hole) at metal surfaces is investigated, by using either jellium
slabs or the semi-infinite (SI) jellium model. For jellium slabs, we prove
analytically and numerically that in the vacuum region far away from the
surface $\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{Slab}}(z \to \infty) \to - e^{2}/2z$, {\it
independent} of the bulk electron density, which is exactly half the
corresponding exact-exchange potential $V_{x}(z \to \infty) \to - e^2/z$ [Phys.
Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 026802 (2006)] of density-functional theory, as occurs in
the case of finite systems. The fitting of $\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{Slab}}(z)$
to a physically motivated image-like expression is feasible, but the resulting
location of the image plane shows strong finite-size oscillations every time a
slab discrete energy level becomes occupied. For a semi-infinite jellium, the
asymptotic behavior of $\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{SI}}(z)$ is somehow different.
As in the case of jellium slabs $\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{SI}}(z \to \infty)$ has
an image-like behavior of the form $\propto - e^2/z$, but now with a
density-dependent coefficient that in general differs from the slab universal
coefficient 1/2. Our numerical estimates for this coefficient agree with two
previous analytical estimates for the same. For an arbitrary finite thickness
of a jellium slab, we find that the asymptotic limits of
$\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{Slab}}(z)$ and $\varepsilon_{x}^{\text{SI}}(z)$ only
coincide in the low-density limit ($r_s \to \infty$), where the
density-dependent coefficient of the semi-infinite jellium approaches the slab
{\it universal} coefficient 1/2.