We report on the follow-up and recovery of 100 program NEAs, PHAs and VIs
using the ESO/MPG 2.2m, Swope 1m and INT 2.5m telescopes equipped with large
field cameras. The 127 fields observed during 11 nights covered 29 square
degrees. Using these data, we present the incidental survey work which includes
558 known MBAs and 628 unknown moving objects mostly consistent with MBAs from
which 58 objects became official discoveries. We planned the runs using six
criteria and four servers which focus mostly on faint and poorly observed
objects in need of confirmation, follow-up and recovery. We followed 62 faint
NEAs within one month after discovery and we recovered 10 faint NEAs having big
uncertainties at their second or later opposition. Using the INT we eliminated
4 PHA candidates and VIs. We observed in total 1,286 moving objects and we
reported more than 10,000 positions. All data were reduced by the members of
our network in a team effort, and reported promptly to the MPC. The positions
of the program NEAs were published in 27 MPC and MPEC references and used to
improve their orbits. The O-C residuals for known MBAs and program NEAs are
smallest for the ESO/MPG and Swope and about four times larger for the INT
whose field is more distorted. The incidental survey allowed us to study
statistics of the MBA and NEA populations observable today with 1--2m
facilities. We calculate preliminary orbits for all unknown objects,
classifying them as official discoveries, later identifications and unknown
outstanding objects. The orbital elements a, e, i calculated by FIND_ORB
software for the official discoveries and later identified objects are very
similar with the published elements which take into account longer
observational arcs; thus preliminary orbits were used in statistics for the
whole unknown dataset. (CONTINUED)