Facility location models typically assume demand locations are known at the
time of facility siting. However, in many practical problems, the locations of
demand points may be subject to uncertainty. One setting in which demand
location uncertainty is a major feature is in the deployment of automated
external defibrillators (AEDs) in public locations, which are used to treat
sudden cardiac arrest. Since the exact locations of future cardiac arrests
cannot be known a priori, AEDs must be placed strategically in public locations
to ensure their accessibility in the event of a cardiac arrest emergency.
  Motivated by the AED location problem, we propose a distributionally robust
model for siting facilities in an environment where demand points are realized
in continuous space according to a partially-known distribution. Our approach
involves discretizing continuous space into a finite set of scenarios, with
each scenario representing a possible location for the realization of the next
demand point. We propose a solution technique based on row-and-column
generation that scales extremely efficiently in the number of scenarios. We
also provide bounds on the error induced by the discretization as a function of
the granularity of discretization. Combined with the efficiency of the
row-and-column generation algorithm, these bounds allow us to tractably and
tightly approximate the underlying continuous problem. Lastly, we present
numerical results from a case study that demonstrates that hedging against
demand location uncertainty has the potential to improve survival outcomes by
mitigating the risk of long response times.