We present results from the highest resolution polarization imaging survey of
a complete sample of extragalactic radio sources carried out to date. Our
sample consists of a statistically complete flat-spectrum subset of 32 AGNs
from the Pearson-Readhead survey, which has been studied at a variety of
wavelengths and resolutions, including space-VLBI. Our observations were made
with the VLBA at 43 GHz, where the relatively higher resolution and weaker
opacity effects have allowed us to probe magnetic field structures in the jets
of these AGNs much closer to the central engine than in previous studies. At 43
GHz, the bulk of the total intensity and polarized emission in most
flat-spectrum AGNs originates from an unresolved core component located at the
extreme end of a faint jet. The luminosity of the core is positively correlated
with the total source luminosity in soft x-rays, in the optical, and at 5 GHz.
The most strongly polarized cores display electric vectors that are roughly
aligned with the jet axis, which is consistent with a strong transverse shock
that enhances the perpendicular component of the jet magnetic field. Sources
with highly polarized cores also tend to have high optical polarizations and
flatter overall radio spectra. Approximately half of the jets in our sample
display apparently bent morphologies that are suggestive of streaming motions
along a helical path. The straightest jets in the sample tend to display slower
superluminal speeds than those that are significantly bent. We also confirm
that intrinsic differences in the magnetic field properties of BL Lacertae
objects and quasars previously seen on scales of tens of milliarcseconds are
also present in regions much closer to the base of the jet.