This work is aimed at quantifying the uncertainties in the 3D reconstruction
of the location of coronal mass ejections (CMEs) obtained with the polarization
ratio technique. The method takes advantage of the different distributions
along the line of sight (LOS) of total (tB) and polarized (pB) brightnesses to
estimate the average location of the emitting plasma. To this end, we assumed
two simple electron density distributions along the LOS (a constant density and
Gaussian density profiles) for a plasma blob and synthesized the expected tB
and pB for different distances $z$ of the blob from the plane of the sky (POS)
and different projected altitudes $\rho$. Reconstructed locations of the blob
along the LOS were thus compared with the real ones, allowing a precise
determination of uncertainties in the method. Independently of the analytical
density profile, when the blob is centered at a small distance from the POS
(i.e. for limb CMEs) the distance from the POS starts to be significantly
overestimated. Polarization ratio technique provides the LOS position of the
center of mass of what we call folded density distribution, given by reflecting
and summing in front of the POS the fraction of density profile located behind
that plane. On the other hand, when the blob is far from the POS, but with very
small projected altitudes (i.e. for halo CMEs, $\rho < 1.4$ R$_\odot$), the
inferred distance from that plane is significantly underestimated. Better
determination of the real blob position along the LOS is given for intermediate
locations, and in particular when the blob is centered at an angle of
$20^\circ$ from the POS. These result have important consequences not only for
future 3D reconstruction of CMEs with polarization ratio technique, but also
for the design of future coronagraphs aimed at providing a continuous
monitoring of halo-CMEs for space weather prediction purposes.