The first study of the local interstellar medium (LISM) toward Puppis-Vela (l
= 245\degr to 275\degr, b = -15\degr to +5\degr, d < 200 pc) is presented in
this paper. A study of the locations, sizes, and physical characteristics of
local interstellar gas, i.e. ``astronephography,'' is included, and relies upon
the improved distance measurements provided by Hipparcos parallax measurements.
All spectra of more distant sight lines contain absorption features due to
intervening local gas, and more distant structures can only be studied
accurately if components due to the LISM have been isolated. Towards this end,
high resolution (R ~ 95,000), high signal-to-noise (S/N ~ 110 to 250) Na I
spectra of 11 nearby stars in the direction of Puppis-Vela have been obtained.
Toward Puppis-Vela, absorption due to the LIC was not observed, but components
at three distinct velocities were found, and the extent of the local gas
producing the features was estimated. The conclusions regarding the UV spectrum
of gamma^2 Vel presented by Fitzpatrick & Spitzer (1994) were re-examined in
light of this new LISM data, and the ambiguity in their conclusions about
several absorption components is resolved. The stars in Puppis-Vela flank the
region of the apparent extension of the Local Bubble (or Cavity) known as the
beta CMa tunnel,and measurements of the Na I column density towards the sample
stars have been used to modify existing estimates of the extent of the tunnel.
A compilation of all existing Na I observations of < 200 pc sight lines around
the tunnel reveal that low column densities have been exclusively detected
within l ~ 210\degr to 250\degr,and b ~ -21\degr to -9\degr. Near the Galactic
plane,at latitudes -10\degr < b < 0\degr and d ~< 150 pc, the tunnel is
confined to l < 270\degr, a lower longitude than was previously reported.