With the aim of assessing the merits of the new source function proposed
earlier in Polnikov (2005),it was tested and validated by means of the
modification of the well known model WAVEWATCH-III. Assessment was done on the
basis of comparing the wave simulation results found from both models against
the buoy data obtained in three oceanic regions: eastern and western parts of
the North Atlantic, and the Barenz Sea. First of all, incorporation of the new
source function into the numerical codes of WAVEWATCH was done, and this
modified version of WAVEWATCH was fitted and tested by standard tests. On the
basis of these results some physical conclusions were drawn. Then,
sophisticated fitting of the modified model was carried out, using the
observation data of 19 buoys obtained in two regions of the North Atlantic for
a period of 30 days at 1-hour time intervals. After this, the standard
validation of both models was continued on the basis of the 8-month historical
data, corresponding to 12 buoys located in the western part of the North
Atlantic. Finally, comparative validation of the models was done against the
wave observations obtained at one buoy in the Barenz Sea for a period of 3
years at 6-hour time intervals. Estimations of simulation accuracy were carried
out for the three parameters of wind waves: significant wave height, Hs , peak
wave period, Tp , and mean wave period, Tm. Comparative analysis of these
estimations was carried out for the original and modified model WAVEWATCH. The
advantage of the modified model was revealed, with an increase of simulation
accuracy for Hs by 20 to 50% for more than 70% of the buoys considered.
Additionally, it was found that the speed of calculation was increased by 15%.
Keywords: wind waves, numerical model, buoy data, fitting of numerical model,
verification.