We use deep HST/ACS F555W and F814W photometry of resolved stars in the M81
Group dwarf irregular galaxy Ho II to study the hypothesis that the holes
identified in the neutral ISM (HI) are created by stellar feedback. From the
deep photometry, we construct color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs) and measure the
star formation histories (SFHs) for stars contained in HI holes from two
independent holes catalogs, as well as select control fields, i.e., similar
sized regions that span a range of HI column densities. Converting the recent
SFHs into stellar feedback energies, we find that enough energy has been
generated to have created all holes. However, the required energy is not always
produced over a time scale that is less than the estimated kinematic age of the
hole. The combination of the CMDs, recent SFHs, and locations of young stars
shows that the stellar populations inside HI holes are not coherent,
single-aged, stellar clusters, as previously suggested, but rather multi-age
populations distributed across each hole. From a comparison of the modeled and
observed integrated magnitudes, and the locations and energetics of stars
inside of HI holes, we propose a potential new model: a viable mechanism for
creating the observed HI holes in Ho II is stellar feedback from multiple
generations of SF spread out over tens or hundreds of Myr, and thus, the
concept of an age for an HI hole is intrinsically ambiguous. We further find
that \halpha and 24 micron emission, tracers of the most recent star formation,
do not correlate well with the positions of the HI holes. However, UV emission,
which traces star formation over roughly the last 100 Myr, shows a much better
correlation with the locations of the HI holes.