We determine the age, metallicity and initial mass function of three
clusters, namely NGC 265, K~29, NGC 290, located in the main body of the Small
Magellanic Cloud. In addition, we derive the history of star formation in the
companion fields. We make use of ACS/WFC HST archive data. For the clusters,
the age and metallicity are derived fitting the integrated luminosity function
with single synthetic stellar population by means of the $\chi^2$ minimization.
For the companion fields, the history of star formation is derived using the
$\chi^2$ minimization together with the downhill-simplex method.For the
clusters we find the following ages and metallicities: NGC 265 has
log(Age)=$8.5\pm0.3$ yr and metallicity $0.004\pm0.003$(or [Fe/H]=-0.62);
\object{K~29} has log(Age)=$8.2\pm0.2$ yr and metallicity Z=$0.003\pm0.002$ (or
[Fe/H]=-0.75); NGC 290 has log(Age)=$7.8\pm0.5$ yr and metallicity
$0.003\pm0.002$(or [Fe/H]=-0.75). The superior quality of the data allows the
study of the initial mass function down to M$ \sim$ 0.7 M$_\odot$. The initial
mass function turns out to be in agreement with the standard Kroupa model. The
comparison of the NGC 265 luminosity function with the theoretical ones from
stellar models both taking overshoot from the convective core into account and
neglecting it, seems to suggest that a certain amount of convective overshoot
is required. The star formation rate of the field population presents periods
of enhancements at 300-400 Myr, 3-4 Gyr and finally 6 Gyr. However it is
relatively quiescent at ages older than 6 Gyr. This result suggests that at
older ages, the tidal interaction between the Magellanic Clouds and the Milky
Way was not able to trigger significant star formation events.