Snowden and coworkers have presented a model for the 1/4 keV soft X-ray
diffuse background in which the observed flux is dominated by a ~ 10^6 K
thermal plasma located in a 100-300 pc diameter bubble surrounding the Sun, but
has significant contributions from a very patchy Galactic halo. Halo emission
provides about 11% of the total observed flux and is responsible for half of
the H I anticorrelation. The remainder of the anticorrelation is presumably
produced by displacement of disk H I by the varying extent of the local hot
bubble (LHB). The ROSAT R1 and R2 bands used for this work had the unique
spatial resolution and statistical precision required for separating the halo
and local components, but provide little spectral information. Some consistency
checks had been made with older observations at lower X-ray energies, but we
have made a careful investigation of the extent to which the model is supported
by existing sounding rocket data in the Be (73-111 eV) and B bands (115-188 eV)
where the sensitivities to the model are qualitatively different from the ROSAT
bands. We conclude that the two-component model is well supported by the
low-energy data. We find that these combined observations of the local
component may be consistent with single-temperature thermal emission models in
collisional ionization equilibrium if depleted abundances are assumed. However,
different model implementations give significantly different results, offering
little support for the conclusion that the astrophysical situation is so
simple.