The CoRoT satellite has provided high-quality light curves of several
solar-like stars. Analysis of the light curves provides oscillation frequencies
that make it possible to probe the interior of the stars. However, additional
constraints on the fundamental parameters of the stars are important for the
theoretical modelling to be successful. We will estimate the fundamental
parameters (mass, radius and luminosity) of the first four solar-like targets
to be observed in the asteroseismic field. In addition, we will determine their
effective temperature, metallicity and detailed abundance pattern. To constrain
the stellar mass, radius and age we use the SHOTGUN software which compares the
location of the stars in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram with theoretical
evolution models. This method takes into account the uncertainties of the
observed parameters including the large separation determined from the
solar-like oscillations. We determine the effective temperatures and abundance
patterns in the stars from the analysis of high-resolution spectra. We have
determined the mass, radius and luminosity of the four CoRoT targets to within
5-10 percent, 2-4 percent and 5-13 percent, respectively. The quality of the
stellar spectra determines how well we can constrain the effective temperature.
For the two best spectra we get 1-sigma uncertainties below 60 K and for the
other two 100-150 K. The uncertainty on the surface gravity is less than 0.08
dex for three stars while for HD 181906 it is 0.15 dex. The reason for the
larger uncertainty is that the spectrum has two components with a luminosity
ratio of Lp/Ls = 0.50+-0.15. While Hipparcos astrometric data strongly suggest
it is a binary star we find evidence that the fainter star may be a background
star, since it is less luminous but hotter.