In this paper we introduce the concept of what we call "NUDAR" (NeUtrino
Direction and Ranging), making the point that measurements of the observed
energy and direction vectors can be employed to passively deduce the exact
three-dimensional location and thermal power of geophysical and anthropogenic
neutrino sources from even a single detector. We present the most precise
background estimates to date, all handled in full three dimensions, as
functions of depth and geographical location. For the present calculations, we
consider a hypothetical 138 kiloton detector which can be transported to an
ocean site and deployed to an operational depth. We present a Bayesian
estimation framework to incorporate any a priori knowledge of the reactor that
we are trying to detect, as well as the estimated uncertainty in the background
and the oscillation parameters. Most importantly, we fully employ the knowledge
of the reactor spectrum and the distance-dependent effects of neutrino
oscillations on such spectra. The latter, in particular, makes possible
determination of range from one location, given adequate signal statistics.
Further, we explore the rich potential of improving detection with even modest
improvements in individual neutrino direction determination. We conclude that a
300 MWth reactor can indeed be geolocated, and its operating power estimated
with one or two detectors in the hundred kiloton class at ranges out to a few
hundred kilometers. We note that such detectors would have natural and
non-interfering utility for scientific studies of geo-neutrinos, neutrino
oscillations, and astrophysical neutrinos. This motivates the development of
cost effective methods of constructing and deploying such next generation
detectors.