Using hydrodynamic simulations we compute the metal enrichment history of the
intergalactic medium (IGM). We show that galactic superwind (GSW) feedback can
transport metals to the IGM and that the properties of simulated metal
absorbers match observations. The distance of influence of GSW is typically
limited to >0.5Mpc and within regions of overdensity >10. Most CIV and OVI
absorbers are located within shocked regions of elevated temperature
(T>2x10^4K), overdensity (>10), and metallicity ([-2.5,-0.5]). OVI absorbers
have typically higher metallicity, lower density and higher temperature than
CIV absorbers. For OVI absorbers collisional ionization dominates over the
entire redshift range z=0-6, whereas for CIV absorbers the transition occurs at
moderate redshift z~3 from collisionally dominated to photoionization
dominated. We find that the observed column density distributions for CIV and
OVI in the range log N cm^2=12-15 are reasonably reproduced by the simulations.
The evolution of mass densities contained in CIV and OVI lines, Omega_CIV and
Omega_OVI, is also in good agreement with observations, which shows a near
constancy at low redshifts and an exponential drop beyond redshift z=3-4. For
both CIV and OVI, most absorbers are transient and the amount of metals probed
by CIV and OVI lines of column log N cm^2=12-15 is only ~2% of total metal
density at any epoch. While gravitational shocks from large-scale structure
formation dominate the energy budget (80-90%) for turning about 50% of IGM to
the warm-hot intergalactic medium (WHIM) by z=0, GSW feedback shocks are
energetically dominant over gravitational shocks at z > 1-2. Most of the
so-called "missing metals" at z=2-3 are hidden in a warm-hot (T=10^{4.5-7}K)
gaseous phase, heated up by GSW feedback shocks. Their mass distribution is
broadly peaked at $\delta=1-10$ in the IGM, outside virialized halos.