We perform parametric tests of the consistency of the standard $w$CDM model
in the framework of general relativity by carefully separating information
between the geometry and growth of structure. We replace each late-universe
parameter that describes the behavior of dark energy with two parameters: one
describing geometrical information in cosmological probes, and the other
controlling the growth of structure. We use data from all principal
cosmological probes: of these, Type Ia supernovae, baryon acoustic
oscillations, and the peak locations in the cosmic microwave background angular
power spectrum constrain the geometry, while the redshift space distortions,
weak gravitational lensing and the abundance of galaxy clusters constrain both
geometry and growth. Both geometry and growth separately favor the $\Lambda$CDM
cosmology with the matter density relative to critical $\Omega_M\simeq 0.3$.
When the equation of state is allowed to vary separately for probes of growth
and geometry, we find again a good agreement with the $\Lambda$CDM value
($w\simeq -1$), with the major exception of redshift-space distortions which
favor less growth than in $\Lambda$CDM at 3-$\sigma$ confidence, favoring the
equation of state $w^{\rm grow}\simeq -0.8$. The anomalous growth favored by
redshift space distortions has been noted earlier, and is common to all
redshift space distortion data sets, but may well be caused by systematics, or
be explained by the sum of the neutrino masses higher than that expected from
the simplest mass hierarchies, $m_\nu \simeq 0.45$ eV. On the whole, the
constraints are tight even in the new, larger parameter space due to impressive
complementarity of different cosmological probes.