In this paper, we propose a transmit beamspace energy focusing technique for
multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) radar with application to direction
finding for multiple targets. The general angular directions of the targets are
assumed to be located within a certain spatial sector. We focus the energy of
multiple (two or more) transmitted orthogonal waveforms within that spatial
sector using transmit beamformers which are designed to improve the
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) gain at each receive antenna. The subspace
decomposition-based techniques such as MUSIC can then be used for direction
finding for multiple targets. Moreover, the transmit beamformers can be
designed so that matched-filtering the received data to the waveforms yields
multiple (two or more) data sets with rotational invariance property that
allows applying search-free direction finding techniques such as ESPRIT for two
data sets or parallel factor analysis (PARAFAC) for more than two data sets.
Unlike previously reported MIMO radar ESPRIT/PARAFAC-based direction finding
techniques, our method achieves the rotational invariance property in a
different manner combined also with the transmit energy focusing. As a result,
it achieves better estimation performance at lower computational cost.
Particularly, the proposed technique leads to lower Cramer-Rao bound than the
existing techniques due to the transmit energy focusing capability. Simulation
results also show the superiority of the proposed technique over the existing
techniques.