We have obtained deep B and R-band CCD photometry for 5 dE galaxies that were
previously identified on Schmidt films covering the Cen A group region. From a
Fourier analysis of the R-band CCD images we determined the surface brightness
fluctuation (SBF) magnitude for each stellar system. All magnitudes are similar
and suggest that these low surface brightness galaxies lie approximately at the
same distance, regardless of the assumed SBF zero point. Long-slit spectra have
been acquired to derive redshifts for two of the dwarfs, ESO269-066 and
ESO384-016. The velocities identify them unambiguously as Cen A group members.
An age - metallicity analysis of the spectra reveals an underlying old and
metal-poor stellar population in both cases. Combining photometric and
spectroscopic results we find strong evidence that indeed all dEs are Cen A
group members. Based on accurate distances published for the two main Cen A
group galaxies NGC5128 and NGC5253, we adopted a mean group distance of 3.96
Mpc to calibrate the apparent fluctuation magnitudes. The resulting absolute
SBF magnitudes \bar{M}_R of the dEs correlate with the colours (B-R)_0 as good
agreement allows a calibration of the SBF method for dEs in the colour range
0.8<(B-R)_0<1.5. One of the dwarfs, ESO219-010, is located slightly behind the
core of the Cen A group at 4.8 Mpc, while the remaining four recover the mean
group distance of 3.96 Mpc that was put into the calibration. The depth of the
group is only 0.5 Mpc which identifies the Cen A group as a spatially well
isolated galaxy aggregate, in contrast to the nearby Sculptor group.