The Large Area Telescope (LAT) on board the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope
routinely detects the highly dust-absorbed, reddened, and MeV-peaked flat
spectrum radio quasar PKS 1830-211 (z=2.507). Its apparent isotropic gamma-ray
luminosity (E>100 MeV) averaged over $\sim$ 3 years of observations and peaking
on 2010 October 14/15 at 2.9 X 10^{50} erg s^{-1}, makes it among the brightest
high-redshift Fermi blazars. No published model with a single lens can account
for all of the observed characteristics of this complex system. Based on radio
observations, one expects time delayed variability to follow about 25 days
after a primary flare, with flux about a factor 1.5 less. Two large gamma-ray
flares of PKS 1830-211 have been detected by the LAT in the considered period
and no substantial evidence for such a delayed activity was found. This allows
us to place a lower limit of about 6 on the gamma rays flux ratio between the
two lensed images. Swift XRT observations from a dedicated Target of
Opportunity program indicate a hard spectrum and with no significant
correlation of X-ray flux with the gamma-ray variability. The spectral energy
distribution can be modeled with inverse Compton scattering of thermal photons
from the dusty torus. The implications of the LAT data in terms of variability,
the lack of evident delayed flare events, and different radio and gamma-ray
flux ratios are discussed. Microlensing effects, absorption, size and location
of the emitting regions, the complex mass distribution of the system, an
energy-dependent inner structure of the source, and flux suppression by the
lens galaxy for one image path may be considered as hypotheses for
understanding our results.