We investigate the temperature-disorder (T-S) phase diagram of a
three-dimensional gauge glass model, which is a cubic-lattice nearest-neighbor
XY model with quenched random phase shifts A_xy at the bonds, by numerical
Monte Carlo simulations. We consider the uncorrelated phase-shift distribution
P(A_xy)\sim \exp[(cos A_xy)/S], which has the pure XY model and the uniform
distribution of random shifts as extreme cases at S=0 and S->infty
respectively, and which gives rise to equal magnetic and overlap correlation
functions when T=S. While the high-temperature phase is always paramagnetic, at
low temperatures there is a ferromagnetic phase for weak disorder (small S) and
a glassy phase at large disorder (large S). These three phases are separated by
transition lines with different magnetic and glassy critical behaviors. The
disorder induced by the random shifts turns out to be irrelevant at the
paramagnetic-ferromagnetic transition line, where the critical behavior belongs
to the 3D XY universality class of pure systems; disorder gives only rise to
very slowly decaying scaling corrections. The glassy critical behavior along
the finite-temperature paramagnetic-glassy transition line belongs to the
gauge-glass universality class, with a quite large critical exponent nu=3.2(4).
These transition lines meet at a multicritical point M, located at
T=S=0.7840(2). The low-temperature ferromagnetic and glassy phases are
separated by a third transition line, from M down to the T=0 axis, which is
slightly reentrant.