Amplified Tau-airshower at horizons may well open a novel powerful windows,
at PeV-EeV energy, to Neutrino Astronomy. Neutrino induced air-showering
astronomy rise because of neutrino masses, their mixing and the consequent
replenishment of tau flavor during neutrino flight into spaces; Tau-Air-Showers
escaping the Earth are the main traces amplified by its millions muon, billions
gamma and thousand billions photon secondaries. Earth edges and its sharp
shadows is the huge beam-dump detector for UHE neutrino and the almost
noise-free screen for tau air-showers (as well as for PeVs anti-neutrino
electron scattering on air electrons by resonant interactions). Crown array
detectors for horizontal Cherenkov signals on mountains, on balloons and
satellites widening the solid angle view are being elaborated; deep and wide
valleys are considered. MAGIC Telescopes pointing downward to terrestrial
grounds acts, for EeV Tau neutrino air-showers astronomy, as a massive tens of
km^3 water equivalent detector, making (in a given direction) it at present the
most powerful dedicated neutrino telescope at PeVs. MAGIC facing the sea edges
must also reveal mirrored downward UHECR Air-showers (Cherenkov) flashes.
Magic-crown systems may lead to largest neutrino detectors in near future. They
maybe located on top mountains, on planes or balloons or in satellite arrays.
They may be screened in deep valleys. MILAGRO (and past MILAGRITO or future
larger detectors) on a mountain top might already hide records of horizontal
up-going muon bundles due to far UHECR and less far (but rarer) tau air-showers
at EeV. UHE neutrino may also scatter on relic light (0.1-0.2 eV) ones,
showering in the Universe at ZeV energies Cosmic Rays.