The observed iron K-alpha fluorescence lines in Seyfert-1 galaxies provide
strong evidence for an accretion disk near a supermassive black hole as a
source of the emission. Here we present an analysis of the geometrical and
kinematic properties of the disk based on the extreme frequency shifts of a
line profile as determined by measurable flux in both the red and blue wings.
The edges of the line are insensitive to the distribution of the X-ray flux
over the disk, and hence provide a robust alternative to profile fitting of
disk parameters. Our approach yields new, strong bounds on the inclination
angle of the disk and the location of the emitting region. We apply our method
to interpret observational data from MCG-6-30-15 and find that the commonly
assumed inclination 30 deg for the accretion disk in MCG-6-30-15 is
inconsistent with the position of the blue edge of the line at a 3 sigma level.
A thick turbulent disk model or the presence of highly ionized iron may
reconcile the bounds on inclination from the line edges with the full line
profile fits based on simple, geometrically thin disk models. The bounds on the
innermost radius of disk emission indicate that the black hole in MCG-6-30-15
is rotating faster than 30 % of theoretical maximum. When applied to data from
NGC 4151, our method gives bounds on the inclination angle of the X-ray
emitting inner disk of 50\pm 10 deg, consistent with the presence of an
ionization cone grazing the disk as proposed by Pedlar et al. (1993). The
frequency extrema analysis also provides limits to the innermost disk radius in
another Seyfert-1 galaxy, NGC 3516.