Simulations with the radiation-hydrodynamics code HYDRA of a low-adiabat
ignition design for the National Ignition Facility (NIF), with and without an
imposed axial magnetic field, are presented. We also study superthermal, or
"hot," electron dynamics with the hybrid-PIC code ZUMA, using plasma conditions
from HYDRA. During the early-time laser picket, when hot electrons from the
window are a concern, we find ~2E-3 of the hot electron energy in a source
consistent with two-plasmon decay (80 keV temperature) in the laser entrance
hole deposits in the deuterium-tritium (DT) fuel, while most of the energy
deposits in the high-Z wall. A 70 Tesla field, which may improve capsule
performance, magnetizes hot electrons in the hohlraum fill gas, guides them to
the capsule, and increases the DT deposition 12x. Early in peak laser power,
electrons with >125 keV reach the DT fuel, and those with ~185 keV deposit the
largest fraction of their energy (13%) in DT. HYDRA magnetohydrodynamics (MHD)
simulations with an initial 70 T field show it is frozen in to the plasma flow.
Field lines initially connected to capsule material that has ablated remain in
the hohlraum fill instead of connecting to the capsule, and vice versa. Hot
electrons consistent with stimulated Raman scattering from the inner laser
beams (30 keV temperature) are mostly confined by the field to the hohlraum
fill. The fraction of their energy deposited in DT decreases from 1.2E-4 with
no MHD to 3.4E-6 with MHD -- a 35x reduction. The field significantly reduces
cross-field electron thermal conduction, and results in a hotter hohlraum fill
and improved inner-beam propagation.