The extended TeV gamma-ray source ARGO J2031+4157 (or MGRO J2031+41) is
positionally consistent with the Cygnus Cocoon discovered by $Fermi$-LAT at GeV
energies in the Cygnus superbubble. Reanalyzing the ARGO-YBJ data collected
from November 2007 to January 2013, the angular extension and energy spectrum
of ARGO J2031+4157 are evaluated. After subtracting the contribution of the
overlapping TeV sources, the ARGO-YBJ excess map is fitted with a
two-dimensional Gaussian function in a square region of $10^{\circ}\times
10^{\circ}$, finding a source extension $\sigma_{ext}$=
1$^{\circ}$.8$\pm$0$^{\circ}$.5. The observed differential energy spectrum is
$dN/dE =(2.5\pm0.4) \times 10^{-11}(E/1 TeV)^{-2.6\pm0.3}$ photons cm$^{-2}$
s$^{-1}$ TeV$^{-1}$, in the energy range 0.2-10 TeV. The angular extension is
consistent with that of the Cygnus Cocoon as measured by $Fermi$-LAT, and the
spectrum also shows a good connection with the one measured in the 1-100 GeV
energy range. These features suggest to identify ARGO J2031+4157 as the
counterpart of the Cygnus Cocoon at TeV energies. The Cygnus Cocoon, located in
the star-forming region of Cygnus X, is interpreted as a cocoon of freshly
accelerated cosmic rays related to the Cygnus superbubble. The spectral
similarity with Supernova Remnants indicates that the particle acceleration
inside a superbubble is similar to that in a SNR. The spectral measurements
from 1 GeV to 10 TeV allows for the first time to determine the possible
spectrum slope of the underlying particle distribution. A hadronic model is
adopted to explain the spectral energy distribution.