Material specific electronic band structure of the electron-doped high-Tc
cuprate Nd(1.85)Ce(0.15)CuO(4) (NCCO) is calculated within the pseudo gap
regime, using the recently developed generalized LDA+DMFT+Sigma_k scheme.
LDA/DFT (density functional theory within local density approximation) provides
model parameters (hopping integral values, local Coulomb interaction strength)
for the one-band Hubbard model, which is solved by DMFT (dynamical mean-field
theory). To take into account pseudogap fluctuations LDA+DMFT is supplied with
"external" k-dependent self-energy Sigma_k, which describes interaction of
correlated conducting electrons with non-local Heisenberg-like
antiferromagnetic (AFM) spin fluctuations responsible for pseudo gap formation.
Within this LDA+DMFT+Sigma_k approach we demonstrate the formation of
pronounced "hot-spots" on the Fermi surface (FS) map in NCCO, opposite to our
recent calculations for Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8-d) (Bi2212), which have produced
rather extended region of FS "destruction". There are several physical reasons
for this fact: (i) the "hot-spots" in NCCO are located closer to Brillouin zone
center; (ii) correlation length of AFM fluctuations \xi is larger for NCCO;
(iii) pseudogap potential \Delta is stronger, than in Bi2212. Comparison of our
theoretical data with recent bulk sensitive high-energy angle-resolved
photoemission (ARPES) data for NCCO provides good semiquantitative agreement.
Based on that comparison alternative explanation of the van-Hove singularity at
-0.3 eV is proposed. Optical conductivity both for Bi2212 and NCCO is also
calculated within LDA+DMFT+Sigma_k and compared with experimental results,
demonstrating satisfactory agreement.