A detailed analysis of a coronal loop oscillation event is presented, using
data from the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) onboard the Solar Dynamics
Observatory (SDO) for the first time. The loop oscillation event occurred on
2010 Oct 16, 19:05-19:35 UT, was triggered by an M2.9 GOES-class flare, located
inside a highly inclined cone of a narrow-angle CME. This oscillation event had
a number of unusual features: (i) Excitation of kink-mode oscillations in
vertical polarization (in the loop plane); (ii) Coupled cross-sectional and
density oscillations with identical periods; (iii) no detectable kink amplitude
damping over the observed duration of four kink-mode periods ($P=6.3$ min);
(iv) multi-loop oscillations with slightly ($\approx 10%$) different periods;
and (v) a relatively cool loop temperature of $T\approx 0.5$ MK. We employ a
novel method of deriving the electron density ratio external and internal to
the oscillating loop from the ratio of Alfv\'enic speeds deduced from the flare
trigger delay and the kink-mode period, i.e.,
$n_e/n_i=(v_A/v_{Ae})^2=0.08\pm0.01$. The coupling of the kink mode and
cross-sectional oscillations can be explained as a consequence of the loop
length variation in the vertical polarization mode. We determine the exact
footpoint locations and loop length with stereoscopic triangulation using
STEREO/EUVI-A data. We model the magnetic field in the oscillating loop using
HMI/SDO magnetogram data and a potential field model and find agreement with
the seismological value of the magnetic field, $B_{kink}=4.0\pm0.7$ G, within a
factor of two.