Weak gravitational lensing seeks to determine shear by measuring induced
quadrupole (elliptical) shapes in background galaxy images. Small impact
parameter (a few kpc) gravitational lensing by foreground core masses between 2
10^{9} and 2 10^{12} M_\odot will additionally induce a sextupole shape with
the quadrupole and sextupole minima aligned. This correlation in relative
orientation of the quadrupole and sextupole provides a sensitive method to
identify images which have been slightly curved by lensing events. A general
theoretical framework for sextupole lensing is developed which includes several
low order coefficients in a general lensing map. Tools to impute map
coefficients from the galaxy images are described and applied to the north
Hubble deep field. Instrumental PSFs, camera charge diffusion, and image
composition methods are modelled in the coefficient determination process.
Estimates of Poisson counting noise for each galaxy are used to cut galaxies
with signals too small to reliably establish curvature. Curved galaxies are
found to be spatially clumped, as would be expected if the curving were due to
small impact parameter lensing by localized ensembles of dark matter haloes.
Simulations provide an estimate of the total required lensing mass and the
acceptable mass range of the constituent haloes. The overdensities and
underdensities of visible galaxies and their locations in the Hubble foreground
is found to be consistent with our observations and their interpretation as
lensing events.