The cosmic ray primary composition in the energy range between 10**15 and
10**16 eV, i.e., around the "knee" of the primary spectrum, has been studied
through the combined measurements of the EAS-TOP air shower array (2005 m
a.s.l., 10**5 m**2 collecting area) and the MACRO underground detector (963 m
a.s.l., 3100 m w.e. of minimum rock overburden, 920 m**2 effective area) at the
National Gran Sasso Laboratories. The used observables are the air shower size
(Ne) measured by EAS-TOP and the muon number (Nmu) recorded by MACRO. The two
detectors are separated on average by 1200 m of rock, and located at a
respective zenith angle of about 30 degrees. The energy threshold at the
surface for muons reaching the MACRO depth is approximately 1.3 TeV. Such muons
are produced in the early stages of the shower development and in a kinematic
region quite different from the one relevant for the usual Nmu-Ne studies. The
measurement leads to a primary composition becoming heavier at the knee of the
primary spectrum, the knee itself resulting from the steepening of the spectrum
of a primary light component (p, He). The result confirms the ones reported
from the observation of the low energy muons at the surface (typically in the
GeV energy range), showing that the conclusions do not depend on the production
region kinematics. Thus, the hadronic interaction model used (CORSIKA/QGSJET)
provides consistent composition results from data related to secondaries
produced in a rapidity region exceeding the central one. Such an evolution of
the composition in the knee region supports the "standard" galactic
acceleration/propagation models that imply rigidity dependent breaks of the
different components, and therefore breaks occurring at lower energies in the
spectra of the light nuclei.