Assuming that the universe is homogenous and isotropic and applying Gauss'
flux theorem for gravity, it follows that the gravitational field of the
visible universe can be calculated as if the entire mass of the visible
universe is located in one point. Taking into account that the mass of the
visible universe is M=2x10^{53} kg, it appears that the entire visible universe
is inside a {\it photon sphere} of radius R_{ps} = 14.3 Gpc. The current model
for the visible universe must be corrected to account for the fact that
measured horizon distance of 14.0 \pm 0.2 Gpc is not a straight line. Rather it
is an arc of a circle with that length, because all photons are inside the
photon sphere. Our model interprets the visible universe as a surface of a
sphere (or an inside of a sphere shell) with radius 4.46 \pm 0.06 Gpc and an
event horizon, located on that sphere (shell), with size of 14.0 \pm 0.2 Gpc.
The model predicts CMB redshift and time dilatation of Type Ia supernovae by
gravitation. It explains, without inflation theory, the isotropy and uniformity
of the CMB. It predicts the correct value for the Hubble constant H_0 = 67.26
\pm 0.90 km/s/Mpc, the cosmic expansion rate H(z) in agreement with
observations, and the speed of the event horizon. Through relativistic energy
correction, our model also provides an explanation for critical density without
use of dark matter. It explains that Type Ia supernovae redshifts are not
related to the accelerated expansion of the universe and dark energy. It
explains the reason for the established discrepancy between the non-covariant
version of the holographic principle and the calculated dimensionless entropy
(S/k) for the visible universe, which exceeds the entropy of a black hole. The
model is in agreement with the distribution of radio sources in space, Type Ia
data, and data from the HUDF optical and near-infrared survey.