We investigate the role of convection in the formation of atomic and
molecular lines in the atmosphere of a red giant star. For this purpose we
study the formation properties of spectral lines that belong to a number of
astrophysically important tracer elements, including neutral and singly ionized
atoms, and molecules. We focus our investigation on a prototypical red giant
located close to the red giant branch (RGB) tip (Teff=3660K, logg=1.0,
[M/H]=0.0). We used two types of model atmospheres, 3D hydrodynamical and
classical 1D, calculated with the CO5BOLD and LHD stellar atmosphere codes,
respectively. Both codes share the same atmospheric parameters, chemical
composition, equation of state, and opacities, which allowed us to make a
strictly differential comparison between the line formation properties
predicted in 3D and 1D. The influence of convection on the spectral line
formation was assessed with the aid of 3D-1D abundance corrections, which
measure the difference between the abundances of chemical species derived with
the 3D hydrodynamical and 1D classical model atmospheres. We find that
convection plays a significant role in the spectral line formation in this
particular red giant. The derived 3D-1D abundance corrections rarely exceed
\pm0.1 dex when lines of neutral atoms and molecules are considered, which is
in line with the previous findings for solar-metallicity red giants located on
the lower RGB. The situation is different with lines that belong to ionized
atoms, or to neutral atoms with high ionization potential. In both cases, the
corrections for high-excitation lines (\chi>8 eV) may amount to \Delta_3D-1D ~
-0.4 dex. The 3D--1D abundance corrections generally show a significant
wavelength dependence; in most cases they are smaller in the near-infrared, at
1600-2500 nm.