Studying free-standing conversational groups (FCGs) in unstructured social
settings (e.g., cocktail party ) is gratifying due to the wealth of information
available at the group (mining social networks) and individual (recognizing
native behavioral and personality traits) levels. However, analyzing social
scenes involving FCGs is also highly challenging due to the difficulty in
extracting behavioral cues such as target locations, their speaking activity
and head/body pose due to crowdedness and presence of extreme occlusions. To
this end, we propose SALSA, a novel dataset facilitating multimodal and
Synergetic sociAL Scene Analysis, and make two main contributions to research
on automated social interaction analysis: (1) SALSA records social interactions
among 18 participants in a natural, indoor environment for over 60 minutes,
under the poster presentation and cocktail party contexts presenting
difficulties in the form of low-resolution images, lighting variations,
numerous occlusions, reverberations and interfering sound sources; (2) To
alleviate these problems we facilitate multimodal analysis by recording the
social interplay using four static surveillance cameras and sociometric badges
worn by each participant, comprising the microphone, accelerometer, bluetooth
and infrared sensors. In addition to raw data, we also provide annotations
concerning individuals' personality as well as their position, head, body
orientation and F-formation information over the entire event duration. Through
extensive experiments with state-of-the-art approaches, we show (a) the
limitations of current methods and (b) how the recorded multiple cues
synergetically aid automatic analysis of social interactions. SALSA is
available at http://tev.fbk.eu/salsa.