HR8799 is a nearby A-type star with a debris disk and three planetary
candidates recently imaged directly. We undertake a coherent analysis of
various portions of observational data on all known components of the system.
The goal is to elucidate the architecture and evolutionary status of the
system. We try to further constrain the age and orientation of the system,
orbits and masses of the companions, as well as the location of dust. From the
high luminosity of debris dust and dynamical constraints, we argue for a rather
young system's age of <50Myr. The system must be seen nearly, but not exactly,
pole-on. Our analysis of the stellar rotational velocity yields an inclination
of 13-30deg, whereas i>20deg is needed for the system to be dynamically stable,
which suggests a probable inclination range of 20-30deg. The spectral energy
distribution is naturally reproduced with two dust rings associated with two
planetesimal belts. The inner "asteroid belt" is located at ~10AU inside the
orbit of the innermost companion and a "Kuiper belt" at >100AU is just exterior
to the orbit of the outermost companion. The dust masses in the inner and outer
ring are estimated to be ~1E-05 and 4E-02 M_earth, respectively. We show that
all three planetary candidates may be stable in the mass range suggested in the
discovery paper by Marois et al. 2008 (between 5 and 13 Jupiter masses), but
only for some of all possible orientations. Stable orbits imply a double
(4:2:1) mean-motion resonance between all three companions. We finally show
that in the cases where the companions themselves are orbitally stable, the
dust-producing planetesimal belts are also stable against planetary
perturbations.