(abridged) We present the results of an extensive infrared study of the
massive star-forming region G9.62+0.19. The data cover information from broad-
and narrow-band filters in the wavelength range from 1 to 19 micrometer and are
obtained with ESO's infrared cameras ISAAC and TIMMI2 and with SpectroCam-10
(Mt. Palomar). The high sensitivity and resolution provided by these facilities
revealed intriguing new details of this star-forming region and especially
about the embedded hot molecular core (HMC) - component F. We analyse the newly
found infrared sub-structure of four objects in this HMC region. While one of
these objects (F2) is probably a foreground field star, the nature of the
brightest object in the near-infrared there (F1) remains somewhat enigmatic.
Our new astrometry proves that this object is not coincident with the peak of
the molecular line emission of the HMC, but displaced by 1.7 arcsecs (nearly
10000 AU on a linear scale). We estimate this object to be an additional
embedded object with a dense dust shell. Very near the HMC location we find L'
band emission which strongly rises in flux towards longer wavelengths. We
presume that this emission (F4) arises from the envelope of the HMC which is
known to be associated with a molecular outflow roughly aligned along the line
of sight. Thus, the clearing effect of this outflow causes strong deviations
from spherical symmetry which might allow infrared emission from the HMC to
escape through the outflow cavities. This presents the first direct detection
of an HMC at a wavelength as short as 3.8 micron. At 11.7 and 18.75 micron, the
HMC counterpart F4 ultimately proves to be the most luminous IR source within
the G9.62+0.19-F region.