We present new HST NICMOS observations of NGC 4945, a starburst galaxy
hosting a highly obscured active nucleus that is one of the brightest
extragalactic sources at 100 keV. The HST data are complemented with ground
based [FeII] line and mid--IR observations. A 100pc-scale starburst ring is
detected in Pa alpha, while H_2 traces the walls of a super bubble opened by
supernova-driven winds. The conically shaped cavity is particularly prominent
in Pa alpha equivalent width and in the Pa alpha/H_2 ratio. Continuum images
are heavily affected by dust extinction and the nucleus of the galaxy is
located in a highly reddened region with an elongated, disk-like morphology. No
manifestation of the active nucleus is found, neither a strong point source nor
dilution in CO stellar features, which are expected tracers of AGN activity.
Even if no AGN traces are detected in the near-IR, with the currently available
data it is still not possible to establish whether the bolometric luminosity of
the object is powered by the AGN or by the starburst: we demonstrate that the
two scenarios constitute equally viable alternatives. However, the absence of
any signature other than in the hard X-rays implies that, in both scenarios,
the AGN is non-standard: if it dominates, it must be obscured in all
directions, conversely, if the starburst dominates, the AGN must lack UV
photons with respect to X-rays. An important conclusion is that powerful AGNs
can be hidden even at mid-infrared wavelengths and, therefore, the nature of
luminous dusty galaxies cannot be always characterized by long-wavelength data
alone but must be complemented with sensitive hard X-ray observations.