The SRa02 of the CoRoT space mission for Asteroseismology was partly devoted
to stars belonging to the Mon OB2 association. An intense monitoring was
performed on Plaskett's Star (HD47129) and the unprecedented quality of the
light curve allows us to shed new light on this very massive, non-eclipsing
binary system. We particularly aimed at detecting periodic variability which
might be associated with pulsations or interactions between both components. We
also searched for variations related to the orbital cycle which could help to
constrain the inclination and the morphology of the binary system. A
Fourier-based prewhitening and a multiperiodic fitting procedure were applied
to analyse the time series and extract the frequencies of variations. We
describe the noise properties to tentatively define an appropriate significance
criterion, to only point out the peaks at a certain significance level. We also
detect the variations related to the orbital motion and study them by using the
NIGHTFALL program. The periodogram exhibits a majority of peaks at low
frequencies. Among these peaks, we highlight a list of about 43 values,
including notably two different sets of harmonic frequencies whose fundamental
peaks are located at about 0.07 and 0.82d-1. The former represents the orbital
frequency of the binary system whilst the latter could probably be associated
with non-radial pulsations. The study of the 0.07d-1 variations reveals the
presence of a hot spot most probably situated on the primary star and facing
the secondary. The investigation of this unique dataset constitutes a further
step in the understanding of Plaskett's Star. These results provide a first
basis for future seismic modelling. The existence of a hot region between both
components renders the determination of the inclination ambiguous.