This paper presents high resolution X-ray observations with Chandra of NGC
4258 and infers the nature of the so called ``anomalous arms'' in this galaxy.
The anomalous arms dominate the X-ray image; diffuse X-ray emission from the
``plateaux'' regions, seen in radio and H$\alpha$ imaging, is also found. X-ray
spectra have been obtained at various locations along the anomalous arms and
are well described by thermal (mekal) models with kT in the range 0.37 - 0.6
keV. The previously known kpc-scale radio jets are surrounded by cocoons of hot
X-ray emitting gas for the first 350 pc of their length. The radio jets, seen
in previous VLBA and VLA observations, propagate perpendicular to the compact
nuclear gas disk (imaged in water vapor maser emission). The angle between the
jets and the rotation axis of the galactic disk is 60$^{\circ}$. The jets shock
the normal interstellar gas along the first 350 pc of their length, causing the
hot, X-ray emitting cocoons noted above. At a height of z = 175 pc from the
disk plane, the jets exit the normal gas disk and then propagate though the low
density halo until they reach ``hot spots'' (at 870 pc and 1.7 kpc from the
nucleus), which are seen in radio, optical line and X-ray emission. These jets
must drive mass motions into the low density halo gas. This high velocity halo
gas impacts on the dense galactic gas disk and shock heats it along and around
a ``line of damage'', which is the projection of the jets onto the galactic gas
disk as viewed down the galaxy disk rotation axis. However, because NGC 4258 is
highly inclined ($i$ = 64$^{\circ}$), the ``line of damage'' projects on the
sky in a different direction to the jets themselves. We calculate the expected
p.a. of the ``line of damage'' on the sky and find that it coincides with the
anomalous arms to within 2$^{\circ}$. (Abstract truncated).