In this study we present two indicators that will reflect the difference
between collapsars and normal collapse-driven supernovae. They are products of
explosive nucleosynthesis and neutrino emission. In the collapsar model, it is
natural to consider that the product of explosive nucleosynthesis depends on
the zenith angle because the system becomes highly asymmetric in order to
generate a fire ball. We also consider the detectability of the HNRs which is
located nearby our Galaxy. As a result, the number of the HNRs is estimated to
be 5 $\times$ ($10^2$ -- $10^{-3}$), whose chemical composition can be
spatially resolved. Using the optimistic estimate, more HNRs will be found and
it will be possible to discuss on the chemical composition statistically. As
for the energy spectrums of neutrinos, they are not thermalized in a collapsar
because the density of the accretion disk is much lower than that of a neutron
star. The energy spectrums of (anti-)electron neutrinos from hypernovae will be
mainly determined by the process of electron (positron) capture on free proton
(neutron). It is also noted that high energy tail is not dumped in the case of
hypernovae because the density of emitting region is low. Total energy of
neutrino from hypernovae will depend on a lot of physical parameters such as
total accreting mass and mass accretion rate, which are quite contrary to the
situation of the normal collapse-driven supernovae. Therefore there will be a
large variety of total neutrino's energies among collapsars. In the case of SN
1998bw, we think that the matter around the equatorial plane might be ejected
from the system, which resulted in the formation of relatively weak jets and
faint GRB 980425.