A liquid droplet resting on a soft gel substrate can deform that substrate to
the point of material failure, whereby fractures develop on the gel surface
that propagate outwards from the contact-line in a starburst pattern. In this
paper, we characterize i) the initiation process in which the number of arms in
the starburst is controlled by the ratio of surface tension contrast to the
gel's elastic modulus and ii) the propagation dynamics showing that once
fractures are initiated they propagate with a universal power law $L\propto
t^{3/4}$. We develop a model for crack initiation by treating the gel as a
linear elastic solid and computing the deformations within the substrate from
the liquid/solid wetting forces. The elastic solution shows that both the
location and magnitude of the wetting forces are critical in providing a
quantitative prediction for the number of fractures and, hence, an
interpretation of the initiation of capillary fractures. This solution also
reveals that the depth of the gel is an important factor in the fracture
process, as it can help mitigate large surface tractions; this finding is
confirmed with experiments. We then develop a model for crack propagation by
considering the transport of an inviscid fluid into the fracture tip of an
incompressible material, and find that a simple energy-conservation argument
can explain the observed material-independent power law. We compare predictions
for both linear elastic and neo-Hookean solids finding that the latter better
explains the observed exponent.