A large part of modern day communications are carried out through the medium
of E-mails, especially corporate communications. More and more people are using
E-mail for personal uses too. Companies also send notifications to their
customers in E-mail. In fact, in the Multinational business scenario E-mail is
the most convenient and sought-after method of communication. Important
features of E-mail such as its speed, reliability, efficient storage options
and a large number of added facilities make it highly popular among people from
all sectors of business and society. But being largely popular has its negative
aspects too. E-mails are the preferred medium for a large number of attacks
over the internet. Some of the most popular attacks over the internet include
spams, and phishing mails. Both spammers and phishers utilize E-mail services
quite efficiently in spite of a large number of detection and prevention
techniques already in place. Very few methods are actually good in
detection/prevention of spam/phishing related mails but they have higher false
positives. These techniques are implemented at the server and in addition to
giving higher number of false positives, they add to the processing load on the
server. This paper outlines a novel approach to detect not only spam, but also
scams, phishing and advertisement related mails. In this method, we overcome
the limitations of server-side detection techniques by utilizing some
intelligence on the part of users. Keywords parsing, token separation and
knowledge bases are used in the background to detect almost all E-mail attacks.
The proposed methodology, if implemented, can help protect E-mail users from
almost all kinds of unwanted mails with enhanced efficiency, reduced number of
false positives while not increasing the load on E-mail servers.