This is the second paper of the statistical study of coronal mass ejection
(CME) source locations, in which the relationship between CMEs and active
regions (ARs) is statistically studied on the basis of the information of CME
source locations and the ARs automatically extracted from magnetic synoptic
charts of Michelson Doppler Imager (MDI) during 1997 -- 1998. It is found that
about 63% of the CMEs are related with ARs, at least about 53% of the ARs
produced one or more CMEs, and particularly about 14% of ARs are CME-rich (3 or
more CMEs were generated) during one transit across the visible disk. Several
issues are then tried to clarify: whether or not the CMEs originating from ARs
are distinct from others, whether or not the CME kinematics depend on AR
properties, and whether or not the CME productivity depends on AR properties.
The statistical results suggest that (1) there is no evident difference between
AR-related and non-AR-related CMEs in terms of CME speed, acceleration and
width, (2) the size, strength and complexity of ARs do little with the
kinematic properties of CMEs, but have significant effects on the CME
productivity, and (3) the sunspots in all the most productive ARs at least
belong to $\beta\gamma$ type, whereas 90% of those in CME-less ARs are $\alpha$
or $\beta$ type only. A detailed analysis on CME-rich ARs further reveals that
(1) the distribution of the waiting time of same-AR CMEs, consists of two parts
with a separation at about 15 hours, which implies that the CMEs with a waiting
time shorter than 15 hours are probably truly physical related, and (2) an AR
tends to produce such related same-AR CMEs at a pace of 8 hours, but cannot
produce two or more fast CMEs (>800 km/s) within a time interval of 15 hours.
This interesting phenomenon is particularly discussed.