Secondary eclipse spectroscopy provides invaluable insights into the
temperatures and compositions of exoplanetary atmospheres. We carry out a
systematic temperature and abundance retrieval analysis of nine exoplanets
(HD189733b, HD209458b, HD149026b, GJ436b, WASP-12b, WASP-19b, WASP-43b,
TrES-2b, and TrES-3b) observed in secondary eclipse using a combination of
space- and ground-based facilities. Our goal with this analysis is to provide a
consistent set of temperatures and compositions from which self-consistent
models can be compared and to probe the underlying processes that shape these
atmospheres. This paper is the second in a three part series of papers
exploring the retrievability of temperatures and abundances from secondary
eclipse spectra and the implications of these results for the chemistry of
exoplanet atmospheres. In this investigation we present a catalogue of
temperatures and abundances for H$_2$O, CH$_4$, CO, and CO$_2$. We find that
our temperatures and abundances are generally consistent with those of previous
studies, although we do not find any statistically convincing evidence for
super-solar C to O ratios (e.g., solar C/O falls in the 1-sigma confidence
intervals in eight of the nine planets in our sample). Furthermore, within our
sample we find little evidence for thermal inversions over a wide range of
effective temperatures (with the exception of HD209458b), consistent with
previous investigations. The lack of evidence for inversions for most planets
in our sample over such a wide range of effective temperatures provides
additional support for the hypothesis that TiO is unlikely to be the absorber
responsible for the formation of these inversions.