In this paper we study the large scale structures and their galaxy content
around the most X-ray luminous cluster known, RX J1347.5-1145 at z=0.45. We
make use of ugriz CFHT MEGACAM photometry and VIMOS VLT spectroscopy to
identify structures around the RXJ1347 on a scale of 20x20 Mpc2. We construct
maps of the galaxy distribution and the fraction of blue galaxies. We study the
photometric galaxy properties as a function of environment, traced by the
galaxy density. We identify group candidates based on galaxy overdensities and
study their galaxy content. We also use available GALEX NUV imaging to identify
strong unobscured star forming galaxies. We find that the large scale structure
around RXJ1347 extends in the NE-SW direction for at least 20 Mpc, in which
most of the group candidates are located. As other studies, we find that the
fraction of blue galaxies (Fblue) is a function of galaxy number density, but
the bulk of the trend is due to galaxies belonging to massive systems. The
fraction of the UV-bright galaxies is also function of environment, but their
relative numbers compared to the blue population seems to be constant
regardless of the environment. These UV emitters also have similar properties
at all galaxy densities, indicating that the transition between galaxy types
occurs in short time-scales. Candidate galaxy groups show a large variation in
their galaxy content and Fblue in those groups display little dependence with
galaxy density. This may indicate possible differences in their evolutionary
status or the processes that are acting in groups are different than in
clusters. The large scale structure around rich clusters are dynamic places for
galaxy evolution. In the case of RXJ1347 the transformation may start within
infalling groups to finish with the removal of the cold gas once galaxies are
accreted in massive systems. (ABRIDGED)