Biometrics authentication is an effective method for automatically
recognizing individuals. The authentication consists of an enrollment phase and
an identification or verification phase. In the stages of enrollment known
(training) samples after the pre-processing stage are used for suitable feature
extraction to generate the template database. In the verification stage, the
test sample is similarly pre processed and subjected to feature extraction
modules, and then it is matched with the training feature templates to decide
whether it is a genuine or not. This paper presents use of a region of interest
(ROI) for palm print technology. First some of the existing methods for palm
print identification have been introduced. Then focus has been given on
extraction of a suitable smaller region from the acquired palm print to improve
the identification method accuracy. Several existing work in the topic of
region extraction have been examined. Subsequently, a simple and original
method has then proposed for locating the ROI that can be effectively used for
palm print analysis. The ROI extracted using this new technique is suitable for
different types of processing as it creates a rectangular or square area around
the center of activity represented by the lines, wrinkles and ridges of the
palm print. The effectiveness of the ROI approach has been tested by
integrating it with a texture based identification / authentication system
proposed earlier. The improvement has been shown by comparing the
identification accuracy rate before and after the ROI pre-processing.