We present in this paper a substructure and spectroimaging study of the Coma
cluster of galaxies based on XMM-Newton data. XMM-Newton performed a mosaic of
observations of Coma to ensure a large coverage of the cluster. We add the
different pointings together and fit elliptical beta-models to the data. We
subtract the cluster models from the data and look for residuals, which can be
interpreted as substructure. We find several significant structures: the
well-known subgroup connected to NGC4839 in the South-West of the cluster, and
another substructure located between NGC 4839 and the centre of the Coma
cluster. Constructing a hardness ratio image, which can be used as a
temperature map we see that in front of this new structure the temperature is
significantly increased (higher or equal 10 keV). We interpret this temperature
enhancement as the result of heating as this structure falls onto the Coma
cluster. We furthermore reconfirm the filament-like structure South-East of the
cluster centre. This region is significantly cooler than the mean cluster
temperature. We estimate the temperature of this structure to be equal or below
1keV. A possible scenario to explain the observed features is stripping caused
by the infall of a small group of galaxies located around the two galaxies
NGC4921 and NGC4911 into the Coma cluster with a non-zero impact parameter. We
also see significant X-ray depressions North and South-East of NGC4921, which
might either be linked to tidal forces due to the merger with the Western
structure or connected to an older cluster merger.