Our analysis in Papers I and II (Grechnev et al., 2014, Solar Phys. 289, 289
and 1279) of the 18 November 2003 solar event responsible for the 20 November
geomagnetic superstorm has revealed a complex chain of eruptions. In
particular, the eruptive filament encountered a topological discontinuity
located near the solar disk center at a height of about 100 Mm, bifurcated, and
transformed into a large cloud, which did not leave the Sun. Concurrently, an
additional CME presumably erupted close to the bifurcation region. The
conjectures about the responsibility of this compact CME for the superstorm and
its disconnection from the Sun are confirmed in Paper IV (Grechnev et al.,
Solar Phys., submitted), which concludes about its probable spheromak-like
structure. The present paper confirms the presence of a magnetic null point
near the bifurcation region and addresses the origin of the magnetic helicity
of the interplanetary magnetic clouds and their connection to the Sun. We find
that the orientation of a magnetic dipole constituted by dimmed regions with
the opposite magnetic polarities away from the parent active region
corresponded to the direction of the axial field in the magnetic cloud, while
the pre-eruptive filament mismatched it. To combine all of the listed findings,
we come to an intrinsically three-dimensional scheme, in which a spheromak-like
eruption originates via the interaction of the initially unconnected magnetic
fluxes of the eruptive filament and pre-existing ones in the corona. Through a
chain of magnetic reconnections their positive mutual helicity was transformed
into the self-helicity of the spheromak-like magnetic cloud.