The Kepler Spacecraft has discovered a large number of planets up to one-year
periods and down to terrestrial sizes. While the majority of the target stars
are main-sequence dwarfs of spectral type F, G, and K, Kepler covers stars with
effective temperature as low as 2500 K, which corresponds to M stars. These
cooler stars allow characterization of small planets near the habitable zone,
yet it is not clear if this population is representative of that around FGK
stars. In this paper, we calculate the occurrence of planets around stars of
different spectral types as a function of planet radius and distance from the
star, and show that they are significantly different from each other. We
further identify two trends: First, the occurrence of Earth to Neptune-sized
planets is successively higher toward later spectral types at all orbital
periods probed by Kepler; Planets around M stars occur twice as frequently as
around G stars, and thrice as frequently as around F stars. Second, a drop in
planet occurrence is evident at all spectral types inward of a 10 day orbital
period, with a plateau further out. By assigning to each spectral type a median
stellar mass, we show that the distance from the star where this drop occurs is
stellar mass dependent, and scales with semi-major axis as the cube root of
stellar mass. By comparing different mechanisms of planet formation, trapping
and destruction, we find that this scaling best matches the location of the
pre-main-sequence co-rotation radius, indicating efficient trapping of
migrating planets or planetary building blocks. These results demonstrate the
stellar-mass dependence of the planet population, both in terms of occurrence
rate and of orbital distribution. The prominent stellar-mass dependence of the
inner boundary of the planet population shows that the formation or migration
of planets is sensitive to the stellar parameters.