Archival Goddard High Resolution Spectrograph low-resolution spectra of NGC
1705, with wavelength ranges 1170.3 to 1461.7 A and 1453.5 to 1740.1 A and a
velocity resolution of about 100 km\s, have been used to derive the velocity
structure and equivalent widths of the absorption lines of Si II 1190.42,
1260.42, 1304.37 and 1526.71 A, S II 1253 , Al II 1670.79 Aand Fe II 1608.45 A
in this sightline. Three relatively narrow absorption components are seen at
LSR velocities --20 km/s, 260 km/sand 540 km/s. Arguments are presented to show
these absorption features are interstellar rather than stellar in origin based
on a comparison with the C III 1175.7 A absorption feature. We identify the
--20 km/s component with Milky Way disk/halo gas and the 260 km/s component
with an isolated high-velocity cloud HVC 487. This small HVC is located about
10 degrees from the H I gas which envelops the Magellanic Clouds and the
Magellanic Stream (MS). The (Si/H) ratio for this HVC is > 0.6 (Si/H)solar
which together with velocity agreement, suggests association with the
Magellanic Cloud and MS gas. H-alpha emission line kinematics of NGC 1705 show
the presence of a kpc-scale expanding supershell of ionized gas centered on the
central nucleus with a blue-shifted emission component at 540 km/s (Meurer et
al. 1992). We identify the 540 km/s absorption component seen in the GHRS
spectra with the front side of this expanding, ionized supershell. The most
striking feature of this component is strong Si II and Al II absorption but
weak Fe II 1608 A absorption. The low Fe II column density derived is most
likely intrinsic since it cannot be accounted for by ionization corrections or
dust depletion. Due to their shallow gravitational potential wells, dwarf
galaxies have small gravitational binding energies and are vulnerable to large