The advent of next-generation imaging telescopes such as LSST and Pan-STARRS
has revitalized the need for deep and precise reference frames. The proposed
weak-lensing observations with these facilities put the highest demands on
image quality over wide angles on the sky. It is particularly difficult to
achieve a sub-arcsecond PSF on stacked images, where precise astrometry plays a
key role. Current astrometric standards are insufficient to achieve the science
goals of these facilities. We thus propose the establishing of a few selected
deep (V=25) astrometric standards (DAS). These will enable a reliable geometric
calibration of solid-state mosaic detectors in the focal plane of large
ground-based telescopes and make a substantial contribution to our
understanding of stellar populations in the Milky Way. In this paper we
motivate the need for such standards and discuss the strategy of their
selection and acquisition and reduction techniques. The feasibility of DAS is
demonstrated by a pilot study around the open cluster NGC 188, using the KPNO
4m CCD Mosaic camera, and by Subaru Suprime-Cam observations. The goal of
reaching an accuracy of 5-10 mas in positions and obtaining absolute proper
motions good to 2 mas/yr over a several square-degree area is challenging, but
reachable with the NOAO 4m telescopes and CCD mosaic imagers or a similar
set-up. Our proposed DAS aims to establish four fields near the Galactic plane,
at widely separated coordinates. In addition to their utilitarian purpose for
DAS, the data we will obtain in these fields will enable fundamental Galactic
science in their own right. The positions, proper motions, and VI photometry of
faint stars will address outstanding questions of Galactic disk formation and
evolution, stellar buildup and mass assembly via merger events.