The 22 GHz H2O maser in Orion KL has shown extraordinary burst events in
1979-1985 and 1998-1999, sometimes called supermaser. We have conducted
monitoring observations of the supermaser in Orion KL using VERA, VLBI
Exploration of Radio Astrometry, in the current third burst since 2011 March.
Three flux maxima are detected in 2011 and 2012 with rising and falling
timescales of 2-7 months. Time variations of the supermaser seem symmetric for
all of the active phases. The maximum total flux density of 135000 Jy is
observed in 2012 June while it is still one order of magnitude lower than those
in previous bursts. The supermaser consists of two spatially different
components at different velocities. They are elongated along a
northwest-southeast direction perpendicular to the low-velocity outflow driven
by Source I. Proper motions of the supermaser features with respect to Source I
are measured toward west and southwest directions, almost parallel to the
low-velocity outflow. The flux density and linewidth show an anti-correlation
as expected for an unsaturated maser emission. The supermaser is located close
to the methylformate (HCOOCH3) line and continuum emission peaks in the Orion
Compact Ridge detected by ALMA. The broader velocity range of the weak HCOOCH3
emission at the supermaser position would be an evidence of a shock front. On
the other hand, the 321 GHz H2O line is not detected at the position of the
supermaser. It can be explained qualitatively by one of the theoretical H2O
excitation models without extraordinary conditions. Our results support a
scenario that the supermaser is excited in the dense gas interacting with the
low-velocity outflow in the Compact Ridge. The extremely high flux density and
its symmetric time variation for rising and falling phases could be explained
by a beaming effect during the amplification process rather than changes in
physical conditions.