We develop a model to describe odd parity baryon resonances generated
dynamically through a unitary baryon-meson coupled-channels approach. The
scheme applies to channels with light and/or heavy quark content. Distinct
features of the model are that, i) the interaction is an S-wave contact one,
ii) it reduces to the SU(3) Weinberg-Tomozawa Hamiltonian when light
pseudoscalar mesons are involved, thus, respecting chiral symmetry, iii)
spin-flavor in preserved in the light quark sector, and iv) heavy quark spin
symmetry is fulfilled in the heavy quark sector. In particular, baryon-meson
states with different content in c or in c-bar do not mix. The model is a
minimal one and it contains no free parameters. In this work, we focus on
baryon resonances with hidden-charm (at least one c-bar and one c quarks). We
analyze several possible sectors and, for the sector with zero net charm, we
write down the most general Lagrangian consistent with SU(3) and heavy quark
spin symmetry. We explicitly study the N and Delta states, which are produced
from the S-wave interaction of pseudoscalar and vector mesons with 1/2+ and
3/2+ baryons within the charmless and strangeless hidden charm sector. We
predict seven odd parity N-like and five Delta-like states with masses around 4
GeV, most of them as bound states. These states form heavy-quark spin
multiplets, which are almost degenerate in mass. The predicted new resonances
definitely cannot be accommodated by quark models with three constituent quarks
and they might be looked for in the forthcoming PANDA experiment at the future
FAIR facility.