We describe a future possible upgrade of the European XFEL consisting in the
construction of an undulator beamline dedicated to life science experiments.
The availability of free undulator tunnels at the European XFEL facility offers
a unique opportunity to build a beamline optimized for coherent diffraction
imaging of complex molecules, like proteins and other biologically interesting
structures. Crucial parameters for such bio-imaging beamline are photon energy
range, peak power, and pulse duration. Key component of the setup is the
undulator source. The peak power is maximized in the photon energy range
between 3 keV and 13 keV by the use of a very efficient combination of
self-seeding, fresh bunch and tapered undulator techniques. The unique
combination of ultra-high peak power of 1 TW in the entire energy range, and
ultrashort pulse duration tunable from 2 fs to 10 fs, would allow for single
shot coherent imaging of protein molecules with size larger than 10 nm. Also,
the new beamline would enable imaging of large biological structures in the
water window, between 0.3 keV and 0.4 keV. In order to make use of standardized
components, at present we favor the use of SASE3-type undulator segments. The
number segments, 40, is determined by the tapered length for the design output
power of 1 TW. The present plan assumes the use of a nominal electron bunch
with charge of 0.1 nC. Experiments will be performed without interference with
the other three undulator beamlines. Therefore, the total amount of scheduled
beam time per year is expected to be up to 4000 hours.