PSR J0205+6449 is a young ({\approx} 5400 years), Crab-like pulsar detected
in radio and at X and {\gamma}-ray energies and has the third largest spin-down
flux among known rotation powered pulsars. It also powers a bright synchrotron
nebula detected in the optical and X-rays. At a distance of {\approx} 3.2 kpc
and with an extinction comparable to the Crab, PSR J0205+6449 is an obvious
target for optical observations. We observed PSR J0205+6449 with several
optical facilities, including 8m class ground-based telescopes, such as the
Gemini and the Gran Telescopio Canarias. We detected a point source, at a
significance of 5.5{\sigma}, of magnitude i {\approx} 25.5, at the centre of
the optical synchrotron nebula, coincident with the very accurate Chandra and
radio positions of the pulsar. Thus, we discovered a candidate optical
counterpart to PSR J0205+6449. The pulsar candidate counterpart is also
detected in the g ({\approx}27.4) band and weakly in the r ({\approx}26.2)
band. Its optical spectrum is fit by a power law with photon index {\Gamma}0 =
1.9{\pm}0.5, proving that the optical emission if of non-thermal origin, is as
expected for a young pulsar. The optical photon index is similar to the X-ray
one ({\Gamma}X = 1.77{\pm}0.03), although the optical fluxes are below the
extrapolation of the X-ray power spectrum. This would indicate the presence of
a double spectral break between the X-ray and optical energy range, at variance
with what is observed for the Crab and Vela pulsars, but similar to the Large
Magellanic Cloud pulsar PSR B0540-69.