As planets form they tidally interact with their natal disks. Though the
tidal perturbation induced by Earth and super-Earth mass planets is generally
too weak to significantly modify the structure of the disk, the interaction is
potentially strong enough to cause the planets to undergo rapid type I
migration. This physical process may provide a source of short-period
super-Earths, though it may also pose a challenge to the emergence and
retention of cores on long-period orbits with sufficient mass to evolve into
gas giants. Previous numerical simulations have shown that the type I migration
rate sensitively depends upon the circumstellar disk's properties, particularly
the temperature and surface density gradients. Here, we derive these structure
parameters for 1) a self-consistent viscous-disk model based on a constant
\alpha-prescription, 2) an irradiated disk model that takes into account
heating due to the absorption of stellar photons, and 3) a layered-accretion
disk model with variable \alpha-parameter. We show that in the inner
viscously-heated regions of typical protostellar disks, the horseshoe and
corotation torques of super-Earths can exceed their differential Lindblad
torque and cause them to undergo outward migration. However, the temperature
profile due to passive stellar irradiation causes type I migration to be
inwards throughout much of the disk. For disks in which there is outwards
migration, we show that location and the mass range of the "planet traps"
depends on some uncertain assumptions adopted for these disk models. Competing
physical effects may lead to dispersion in super-Earths' mass-period
distribution.