We present 850 micron polarimetry from the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope
toward several dense cores within the dark cloud Barnard 1 in Perseus.
Significant polarized emission is detected from across the mapped area and is
not confined to the locations of bright cores. This indicates the presence of
aligned grains and hence a component of the magnetic field in the plane of the
sky. Polarization vectors detected away from bright cores are strongly aligned
at a position angle of ~ 90 degrees (east of north), while vectors associated
with bright cores show alignments of varying orientations. There is no direct
correlation between the polarization angles measured in earlier optical
polarimetry toward Perseus and the polarized submillimeter thermal emission.
Depolarization toward high intensities is exhibited, but toward the brightest
core reaches a threshold beyond which no further decrease in polarization
percentage is measured. The polarized emission data from the interior envelope
are compared with previously published OH Zeeman data to estimate the total
field strength and orientation under the assumption of a uniform and
non-uniform field component in the region. These results are rough estimates
only due to the single independent detection of Zeeman splitting toward Barnard
1. The uniform field component is thus calculated to be B(0) = 31 microGauss
[+/- (0.52 (north) - 0.01 (east)) - 0.86 (l.o.s.)] in the case where we have
assumed the ratio of the dispersion of the line-of-sight field to the field
strength to be 0.2.