Detailed chemical abundances are presented for seven M31 outer halo globular
clusters (with projected distances from M31 greater than 30 kpc), as derived
from high resolution integrated light spectra taken with the Hobby Eberly
Telescope. Five of these clusters were recently discovered in the Pan-Andromeda
Archaeological Survey (PAndAS)---this paper presents the first determinations
of integrated Fe, Na, Mg, Ca, Ti, Ni, Ba, and Eu abundances for these clusters.
Four of the target clusters (PA06, PA53, PA54, and PA56) are metal-poor ([Fe/H]
< -1.5), alpha-enhanced (though they are possibly less alpha-enhanced than
Milky Way stars at the 1 sigma level), and show signs of star-to-star Na and Mg
variations. The other three globular clusters (H10, H23, and PA17) are more
metal rich, with metallicities ranging from [Fe/H] = -1.4 to -0.9. While H23 is
chemically similar to Milky Way field stars, Milky Way globular clusters, and
other M31 clusters, H10 and PA17 have moderately low [Ca/Fe], compared to Milky
Way field stars and clusters. Additionally, PA17's high [Mg/Ca] and [Ba/Eu]
ratios are distinct from Milky Way stars, and are in better agreement with the
stars and clusters in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). None of the clusters
studied here can be conclusively linked to any of the identified streams from
PAndAS; however, based on their locations, kinematics, metallicities, and
detailed abundances, the most metal-rich PAndAS clusters H23 and PA17 may be
associated with the progenitor of the Giant Stellar Stream, H10 may be
associated with the SW Cloud, and PA53 and PA56 may be associated with the
Eastern Cloud.