Nuclei located in the neutron-deficient Pb region have a complex structure,
rapidly evolving as a function of neutron and proton numbers. The most famous
example is $^{186}$Pb where the three lowest levels are $0^+$ states, the two
excited $0^+$ ones being located at low excitation energy around 600 keV.
Coexisting structures with different properties are found in the neighboring
nuclei. Many experiments have been performed over the last few years in which
in-band and out-of-band $\gamma$ transition probabilities have been measured. A
detailed interpretation of experimental data requires the use of a method going
beyond a mean-field approach that permits to determine spectra and transition
probabilities. Such methods have already been applied to selected isotopes in
this mass region. Our aim is to provide a systematic investigation of this mass
region in order to determine how well experimental data can be understood using
a state-of-the-art method for nuclear structure. The starting point of our
method is a set of mean-field wave functions generated with a constraint on the
axial quadrupole moment and using a Skyrme energy density functional.
Correlations beyond the mean field are introduced by projecting mean-field wave
functions on angular-momentum and particle number and by mixing the symmetry
restored wave functions as a function of the axial quadrupole moment. A
detailed comparison with the available data is performed for energies, charge
radii, spectroscopic quadrupole moments, $E0$ and $E2$ transition probabilities
for the isotopic chains of neutron deficient Hg, Pb, Po and Rn. The connection
between our results and the underlying mean field is also analyzed. Qualitative
agreement with the data is obtained although our results indicate that the
actual energy density functionals have to be improved further to achieve a
quantitative agreement.