We present sensitive and high angular resolution CO(1-0) data obtained by the
Combined Array for Research in Millimeter-wave Astronomy (CARMA) observations
toward the nearby grand-design spiral galaxy M 51. The angular resolution of
0.7" corresponds to 30 pc, which is similar to the typical size of Giant
Molecular Clouds (GMCs), and the sensitivity is also high enough to detect
typical GMCs. Within the 1' field of view centered on a spiral arm, a number of
GMC-scale structures are detected as clumps. However, only a few clumps are
found to be associated with each Giant Molecular Association (GMA), and more
than 90% of the total flux is resolved out in our data. Considering the high
sensitivity and resolution of our data, these results indicate that GMAs are
not mere confusion of GMCs but plausibly smooth structures. In addition, we
have found that the most massive clumps are located downstream of the spiral
arm, which suggests that they are at a later stage of molecular cloud evolution
across the arm and plausibly are cores of GMAs. By comparing with H-alpha and
Pa-alpha images, most of these cores are found to have nearby star forming
regions. We thus propose an evolutionary scenario for the interstellar medium,
in which smaller molecular clouds collide to form smooth GMAs at spiral arm
regions and then star formation is triggered in the GMA cores. Our new CO data
have revealed the internal structure of GMAs at GMC scales, finding the most
massive substructures on the downstream side of the arm in close association
with the brightest H II regions.