We have combined new high-resolution spectra obtained with the Hubble Space
Telescope (HST) and ground-based facilities to make a comprehensive new
abundance analysis of the metal-poor, halo star BD +17^\circ 3248. We have
detected the third r-process peak elements osmium, platinum, and (for the first
time in a metal-poor star) gold, elements whose abundances can only be reliably
determined using HST. Our observations illustrate a pattern seen in other
similar halo stars with the abundances of the heavier neutron-capture elements,
including the third r-process peak elements, consistent with a scaled solar
system r-process distribution. The abundances of the lighter neutron-capture
elements, including germanium and silver, fall below that same scaled solar
r-process curve, a result similar to that seen in the ultra-metal-poor star CS
22892--052. A single site with two regimes or sets of conditions, or perhaps
two different sites for the lighter and heavier neutron-capture elements, might
explain the abundance pattern seen in this star. In addition we have derived a
reliable abundance for the radioactive element thorium. We tentatively identify
U II at 3859 A in the spectrum of BD +17^\circ 3248, which makes this the
second detection of uranium in a very metal-poor halo star. Our combined
observations cover the widest range in proton number (from germanium to
uranium) thus far of neutron-capture elements in metal-poor Galactic halo
stars. Employing the thorium and uranium abundances in comparison with each
other and with several stable elements, we determine an average
cosmochronological age for BD +17^\circ 3248 of 13.8 +/- 4 Gyr, consistent with
that found for other similar metal-poor halo stars.