An extensive set of optical and NIR photometry and low-resolution spectra the
Type Ia supernova (SN Ia) 2003du was obtained using a number of facilities. The
observations started 13 days before B-band maximum light and continued for 480
days with exceptionally good time sampling. The optical photometry was
calibrated through the S-correction technique.
  The UBVRIJHK light curves and the color indices of SN 2003du closely resemble
those of normal SNe Ia. SN 2003du reached a B-band maximum of 13.49 (+/-0.02)
mag on JD2452766.38 (+/-0.5). We derive a B-band stretch parameter of 0.988
(+/-0.003), which corresponds to dM15=1.02 (+/-0.05), indicative of a SN Ia of
standard luminosity. The reddening in the host galaxy was estimated by three
methods, and was consistently found to be negligible. We estimate a distance
modulus of 32.79 (+/-0.15) mag to the host galaxy, UGC 9391. The peak UVOIR
bolometric luminosity of 1.35(+/-0.20) 10^43 erg/s and Arnett's rule implies
that M(Ni56)=0.68 (+/-0.14)M_sun of Ni56 was synthesized during the explosion.
Modeling of the UVOIR bolometric light curve also indicates M(Ni56) in the
range 0.6-0.8 M_sun. The spectral evolution of SN 2003du at both optical and
NIR wavelengths also closely resembles normal SNe Ia. In particular, the Si II
ratio at maximum R(Si II)=0.22 (+/-0.02) and the time evolution of the
blueshift velocities of the absorption line minima are typical. The pre-maximum
spectra of SN 2003du showed conspicuous high-velocity features in the Ca II H&K
doublet and infrared triplet, and possibly in Si II 6355, lines. We compare the
time evolution of the profiles of these lines with other well-observed SNe Ia
and we suggest that the peculiar pre-maximum evolution of Si II 6355 line in
many SNe Ia is due to the presence of two blended absorption components.