We report the discovery of two new Galactic candidate luminous blue variable
(cLBV) stars via detection of circular shells (typical of known confirmed and
cLBVs) and follow-up spectroscopy of their central stars. The shells were
detected at 22 um in the archival data of the Mid-Infrared All Sky Survey
carried out with the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE). Follow-up
optical spectroscopy of the central stars of the shells conducted with the
renewed Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) showed that their spectra are
very similar to those of the well-known LBVs P Cygni and AG Car, and the
recently discovered cLBV MN112, which implies the LBV classification for these
stars as well. The LBV classification of both stars is supported by detection
of their significant photometric variability: one of them brightened in the R-
and I-bands by 0.68\pm0.10 mag and 0.61\pm0.04 mag, respectively, during the
last 13-18 years, while the second one (known as Hen 3-1383) varies its B,V,R,I
and K_s brightnesses by \simeq 0.5-0.9 mag on time-scales from 10 days to
decades. We also found significant changes in the spectrum of Hen 3-1383 on a
timescale of \simeq 3 months, which provides additional support for the LBV
classification of this star. Further spectrophotometric monitoring of both
stars is required to firmly prove their LBV status. We discuss a connection
between the location of massive stars in the field and their fast rotation, and
suggest that the LBV activity of the newly discovered cLBVs might be directly
related to their possible runaway status.