We investigate time-irreversibility from the point of view of a single
particle in Burgers turbulence. Inspired by the recent work for incompressible
flows [Xu et al., PNAS 111.21 (2014) 7558], we analyze the evolution of the
kinetic energy for fluid markers and use the fluctuations of the instantaneous
power as a measure of time irreversibility. For short times, starting from a
uniform distribution of markers, we find the scaling
$\left<[E(t)-E(0)]^n\right>\propto t$ and $\left<p^n\right> \propto
\textrm{Re}^{n-1}$ for the power as a function of the Reynolds number. Both
observations can be explained using the "flight-crash" model, suggested by Xu
et al. Furthermore, we use a simple model for shocks which reproduces the
moments of the energy difference including the pre-factor for
$\left<E(t)-E(0)\right>$. To complete the single particle picture for Burgers
we compute the moments of the Lagrangian velocity difference and show that they
are bi-fractal. This arises in a similar manner to the bi-fractality of
Eulerian velocity differences. In the above setting time irreversibility is
directly manifest as particles eventually end up in shocks. We additionally
investigate time irreversibility in the long-time limit when all particles are
located inside shocks and the Lagrangian velocity statistics are stationary. We
find the same scalings for the power and energy differences as at short times
and argue that this is also a consequence of rare "flight-crash" events related
to shock collisions.