Global wireless networks enable mobile users to communicate regardless of
their locations. Location management is an important part of the emerging
wireless and mobile technology. A Personal Communication System (PCS) network
must have an efficient way to keep track of the mobile users to deliver
services effectively. Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) is a
commonly accepted standard for mobility management of mobile users. Location
management involves location tracking, and location information storage.
Location management requires mobile users to register at various registration
areas whenever they are on the move. The registration process may cause
excessive signaling traffic and long service delays. To improve the efficiency
of location tracking and avoid call set up delays, several strategies such as
local anchor scheme, per-user caching scheme and several pointer forwarding
schemes have been proposed in the past. In this paper, we propose a new "Two
Level Single Chain Pointer Forwarding (TLSCP) Strategy" in which a two level
hierarchy of level-1 and level-2 forwarding pointers reduced to single chain
length are used. Organizing the pointers in a two level hierarchy and further
restricting the pointer chain lengths at both the levels to single chain
localizes the network signaling traffic and reduces the call set up delays. To
justify the effectiveness of our proposed strategy, we develop an analytical
model to evaluate the signaling cost. Our performance analysis shows that the
proposed dynamic TLSCP scheme can significantly reduce the network signaling
traffic and cost for different categories of users under different network
conditions.