In this paper, we study the monitoring method of neutron flux for the
spallation target used in an accelerator driven sub-critical (ADS) system,
where the spallation target located vertically at the centre of a sub-critical
core is bombarded vertically by the high-energy protons from an accelerator.
First, by considering the characteristics in the spatial variation of neutron
flux from the spallation target, we propose the following multi-point
measurement technique, i.e. the spallation neutron flux should be measured at
multiple vertical locations. To explain why the flux should be measured at
multiple locations, we have studied the neutron production from tungsten target
bombarded by a 250 MeV-proton beam with the Geant4-based Monte Carlo
simulations. The simulation results have indicated that the neutron flux at the
central location is up to three orders of magnitude higher than the flux at the
lower locations. Secondly, we have developed an effective technique in order to
measure the spallation neutron flux with the fission chamber (FC). The
effective technique consists in establishing the relation between the fission
rate measured by FC and the spallation neutron flux. Since this relation is
linear for FC, a constant calibration factor is used to derive the neutron flux
from the measured fission rate. This calibration factor can be extracted from
the energy spectra of spallation neutrons. Finally, we have evaluated the
proposed calibration method for FC in the environment of ADS system. The
results indicate that the proposed method functions very well when the neutron
flux is below 10^{13} neutron/cm^2/second.