Aiming at a unified phase transition picture of the charged topological black
hole in Ho\v{r}ava-Lifshitz gravity, we investigate this issue not only in
canonical ensemble with the fixed charge case but also in grand-canonical
ensemble with the fixed potential case. We firstly perform the standard
analysis of the specific heat, the free energy and the Gibbs potential, and
then study its geometrothermodynamics. It is shown that the local phase
transition points not only witness the divergence of the specific heat, but
also witness the minimum temperature and the maximum free energy or Gibbs
potential. They also witness the divergence of the corresponding thermodynamic
scalar curvature. No matter which ensemble is chosen, the metric constructed
can successfully produce the behavior of the thermodynamic interaction and
phase transition structure while other metrics failed to predict the phase
transition point of the charged topological black hole in former literature. In
grand-canonical ensemble, we have discovered the phase transition which has not
been reported before. It is similar to the canonical ensemble in which the
phase transition only takes place when $k=-1$. But it also has its unique
characteristics that the location of the phase transition point depends on the
value of potential, which is different from the canonical ensemble where the
phase transition point is independent of the parameters. After an analytical
check of Ehrenfest scheme, we find that the new phase transition is a second
order one. It is also found that the thermodynamics of the black hole in
Horava-Lifshitz gravity is quite different from that in Einstein gravity.