Formation theories for central dominant galaxies in clusters require them to
be located at the minimum of the cluster gravitational potential. However, 32\%
(8 out of 25) of the clusters with more than 50 measured redshifts have central
galaxies with significant velocity offsets (with respect to other cluster
members). By studying their velocity distributions and correlations between
velocity and position, I show that the presence of a large peculiar velocity is
strongly correlated with the presence of substructure in these massive systems.
About 85\% (21 of 25) of all well-studied clusters show some evidence for
substructure, in contrast to the 30-40\% found when using only galaxy or gas
distributions. The correlation between substructure and central galaxy location
verifies the hypothesis of Merritt (1985) and Tremaine (1990) that high
peculiar velocities are indicative of recent merger events between less-massive
systems of galaxies. Dynamical friction should act quickly to pull the central
galaxy, the most massive discrete object in a cluster, to the minimum of the
potential. The less-massive galaxies retain information about their primordial
subclusters for a longer period of time. I use an objective partitioning
algorithm to assign cluster galaxies to their host subclumps. When galaxies are
allocated in this fashion to their subclusters, 75\% of the significant
velocity offsets are eliminated. Only 2 out of the 25 clusters have central
galaxies which are not centrally-located when substructure is considered in the
analysis.