The formation of unusually shaped Stokes V profiles of the Fe I 630.2 nm line
in the solar photosphere are investigated. The results of numerical 2-D MHD
simulation of solar magnetogranulation are used for this. In their properties,
the synthetic unusual profiles with extremely asymmetry are similar to the
unusual profiles observed with a spatial resolution better than 1" in the
network and internetwork regions. According to our results the unusual profiles
mostly appear in clusters along the polarity inversion lines in the regions of
weak magnetic fields with mixed polarity. As a rule, they are located at the
edges of granules and lanes, and sometimes they are met close to strong
magnetic field concentrations with high velocity and magnetic field strength
gradients. They turned out to appear as clusters in the regions where large
granules disintegrate and new magnetic flux tubes begin to form. The unusual
$V$ profiles may have from one to six lobes. The one-lobe and multilobe
profiles are of the same origin. The processing causing the extreme asymmetry
of the profiles are characterized by one or several polarity reversal along the
line of sight as well as by complicated velocity and field strength gradients.
The greater the number of profile lobes, the greater is the probability of the
field gradient sign change. Hence it follows that the magnetic field should be
very complicated in the regions of formation of extremely asymmetric $V$
profiles. This is confirmed by immediate results of MHD granulation
simulations, which demonstrate the formation of vortices and turbulence by the
velocity shear at down draft edges. These processes add complexity to the
magnetic field structure by mixing field polarities, particularly at the edges
of granules.