We present status and results of AstroGrid-D, a joint effort of
astrophysicists and computer scientists to employ grid technology for
scientific applications. AstroGrid-D provides access to a network of
distributed machines with a set of commands as well as software interfaces. It
allows simple use of computer and storage facilities and to schedule or monitor
compute tasks and data management. It is based on the Globus Toolkit middleware
(GT4). Chapter 1 describes the context which led to the demand for advanced
software solutions in Astrophysics, and we state the goals of the project. We
then present characteristic astrophysical applications that have been
implemented on AstroGrid-D in chapter 2. We describe simulations of different
complexity, compute-intensive calculations running on multiple sites, and
advanced applications for specific scientific purposes, such as a connection to
robotic telescopes. We can show from these examples how grid execution improves
e.g. the scientific workflow. Chapter 3 explains the software tools and
services that we adapted or newly developed. Section 3.1 is focused on the
administrative aspects of the infrastructure, to manage users and monitor
activity. Section 3.2 characterises the central components of our architecture:
The AstroGrid-D information service to collect and store metadata, a file
management system, the data management system, and a job manager for automatic
submission of compute tasks. We summarise the successfully established
infrastructure in chapter 4, concluding with our future plans to establish
AstroGrid-D as a platform of modern e-Astronomy.