We present an observational and dynamical study of newly discovered main-belt
comet 313P/Gibbs. We find that the object is clearly active both in
observations obtained in 2014 and in precovery observations obtained in 2003 by
the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, strongly suggesting that its activity is
sublimation-driven. This conclusion is supported by a photometric analysis
showing an increase in the total brightness of the comet over the 2014
observing period, and dust modeling results showing that the dust emission
persists over at least three months during both active periods, where we find
start dates for emission no later than 2003 July 24+/-10 for the 2003 active
period and 2014 July 28+/-10 for the 2014 active period. From serendipitous
observations by the Subaru Telescope in 2004 when the object was apparently
inactive, we estimate that the nucleus has an absolute R-band magnitude of
H_R=17.1+/-0.3, corresponding to an effective nucleus radius of r_e~1.00+/-0.15
km. The object's faintness at that time means we cannot rule out the presence
of activity, and so this computed radius should be considered an upper limit.
We find that 313P's orbit is intrinsically chaotic, having a Lyapunov time of
T_l=12000 yr and being located near two 3-body mean-motion resonances with
Jupiter and Saturn, 11J-1S-5A and 10J+12S-7A, yet appears stable over >50 Myr
in an apparent example of stable chaos. We furthermore find that 313P is the
second main-belt comet, after P/2012 T1 (PANSTARRS), to belong to the ~155 Myr
old Lixiaohua asteroid family.