The binary system eta Carinae has completed its first 5.54y orbit since the
beginning of science operation of the Fermi Large Area Telescope (LAT). We are
now able to investigate the high-energy gamma-ray source at the position of eta
Carinae over its full orbital period. By this, we can address and confirm
earlier predictions for temporal and spectral variability. Newer versions of
the LAT datasets, instrument response functions and background models allow for
a more accurate analysis. Therefore it is important to re-evaluate the
previously analyzed time period along with the new data to further constrain
location, spectral shape, and flux time history of the gamma-ray source. We
confirm earlier predictions of increasing flux values above 10 GeV toward the
next periastron passage. For the most recent part of the data sample, flux
values as high as those before the first periastron passage in 2008 are
recorded. A comparison of spectral energy distributions around periastron and
apastron passages reveals strong variation in the high-energy band. This is due
to a second spectral component that is present only around periastron. Improved
spatial consistency with the gamma-ray source at the position of eta Carinae
along with the confirmation of temporal variability above 10 GeV in conjunction
with the orbital period strengthens the argument for unambiguous source
identification. Spectral variability provides additional constraints for future
modeling of the particle acceleration and gamma-ray emission in colliding-wind
binary systems.