The recent detection of TeV gamma-rays from the microquasar LS 5039 by HESS
is one of the most exciting discoveries of observational gamma-ray astronomy in
the very high energy regime. This result clearly demonstrates that X-ray
binaries with relativistic jets (microquasars) are sites of effective
acceleration of particles (electrons and/or protons) to multi-TeV energies.
Whether the gamma-rays are of hadronic or leptonic origin is a key issue
related to the origin of Galactic Cosmic Rays. We discuss different possible
scenarios for the production of gamma-rays, and argue in favor of hadronic
origin of TeV photons, especially if they are produced within the binary
system. If so, the detected gamma-rays should be accompanied by a flux of high
energy neutrinos emerging from the decays of \pi^\pm mesons produced at pp
and/or p \gamma interactions. The flux of TeV neutrinos, which can be estimated
on the basis of the detected TeV gamma-ray flux, taking into account the
internal \gamma \gamma \to e^+e^- absorption, depends significantly on the
location of gamma-ray production region(s). The minimum neutrino flux above 1
TeV is expected to be at the level of 10^{-12} cm^{-2} s^{-1}; however, it
could be up to a factor of 100 larger. The detectability of the signal of
multi-TeV neutrinos significantly depends on the high energy cutoff in the
spectrum of parent protons; if the spectrum of accelerated protons continues to
1 PeV and beyond, the predicted neutrino fluxes can be probed by the planned
km^3-scale neutrino detector.