We present multifrequency radio continuum as well as HI observations of the
superwind galaxy NGC1482, with both the GMRT and the VLA. This galaxy has a
remarkable hourglass-shaped optical emission line outflow as well as bi-polar
soft X-ray bubbles on opposite sides of the galactic disk. The low-frequency,
lower-resolution radio observations show a smooth structure. From the
non-thermal emission, we estimate the available energy in supernovae, and
examine whether this would be adequate to drive the observed superwind outflow.
The high-frequency, high-resolution radio images of the central starburst
region located at the base of the superwind bi-cone shows one prominent peak
and more extended emission with substructure. This image has been compared with
the infrared, optical red-continuum, H_alpha, and, soft and hard X-ray images
from Chandra. The peak of infrared emission is the only feature which is
coincident with the prominent radio peak, and possibly defines the centre of
the galaxy. The HI observations with the GMRT show two blobs of emission on
opposite sides of the central region. These are rotating about the centre of
the galaxy and are located at ~2.4 kpc from it. In addition, these observations
also reveal a multicomponent HI-absorption profile against the central region
of the radio source, with a total width of ~250 km/s. The extreme blue- and
red-shifted absorption components are at 1688 and 1942 km/s respectively, while
the peak absorption is at 1836 km/s. This is consistent with the heliocentric
systemic velocity of 1850+/-20 km/s, estimated from a variety of observations.
We discuss possible implications of these results.