(ABRIDGED) We have undertaken a programme of 3 micron narrowband imaging of a
sample of nearby template galaxies covering a wide range of metallicity, star
formation activity, and nuclear activity. In the present paper we present first
results: high spatial resolution images of PAH emission and the adjacent
continuum emission from the central regions of the nearby starburst galaxies
NGC253 and NGC1808. Globally, the PAH emission is seen to peak on the central
starburst regions of both sources. On smaller scales, however, we see no
general spatial correlation or anti-correlation between the PAH emission and
the location of sites of recent star formation, suggesting that the degree to
which PAH emission traces starburst activity is more complicated than
previously hypothesized based on results from data with lower spatial
resolution. We do find spatial correlations, though, when we consider the
PAH-to-continuum ratio, which is low at the positions of known super star
clusters in NGC1808 as well as at the position of the IR peak in NGC253. We
take this to imply a decrease in the efficiency of PAH emission induced by the
star formation, caused by mechanical energy input into the ISM or
photoionisation or photodissociation of the PAH molecules. All three hypotheses
are discussed. In addition, for the first time we present observations of PAH
emission in the superwind of a starbursting system (NGC253), providing strong
support that winds are heavily mass-loaded and entrain substantial amounts of
ambient ISM. We have also found a plausible connection between observed NaD
absorption, H2, and PAHs above the plane of NGC253. This observation has
important implications for enriching galaxy halos and possibly the
intergalactic medium with small dust grains.