The evolution of an X2.7 solar flare, that occurred in a complex
$\beta\gamma\delta$ magnetic configuration region on 2003 November 3 is
discussed utilizing a multi-wavelength data set. The very first signature of
pre-flare coronal activity is observed in radio wavelengths as type III burst
that occurred several minutes prior to the flare signature in H$\alpha$. This
type III is followed by the appearance of a looptop source in hard X-ray (HXR)
images obtained from RHESSI. During the main phase of the event, H$\alpha$
images observed from the solar tower telescope at ARIES, Nainital, reveal
well-defined footpoint (FP) and looptop (LT) sources. As the flare evolves, the
LT source moves upward and the separation between the two FP sources increases.
The co-alignment of H$\alpha$ with HXR images shows spatial correlation between
H$\alpha$ and HXR footpoints, while the rising LT source in HXR is always
located above the LT source seen in H$\alpha$. The evolution of LT and FP
sources is consistent with the reconnection models of solar flares. The EUV
images at 195 {\AA} taken by SOHO/EIT reveal intense emission on the disk at
the flaring region during the impulsive phase. Further, slow drifting type IV
bursts, observed at low coronal heights at two time intervals along the flare
period, indicate rising plasmoids or loop systems. The intense type II radio
burst at time in between these type IV bursts, but at a relatively larger
height indicates the onset of CME and its associated coronal shock wave. The
study supports the standard CSHKP model of flares, which is consistent with
nearly all eruptive flare models. More important, the results also contain
evidence for breakout reconnection before the flare phase.