The MTA beam line has been specifically designed to facilitate measurements
of the Fermilab Linac beam emittance and properties utilizing a long, 10m,
element-free straight. Linac beam is extracted downstream of the 400-MeV
electrostatic chopper located in the Booster injection line. This chopper
cannot be utilized for MTA beam, and therefore the entire Linac beam pulse is
directed into the MTA beamline. Pulse length manipulation is provided by the
750-keV electrostatic chopper at the upstream end of the Linac and, using this
device, beam can be delivered from 8 {\mu}sec up to the full 50 {\mu}sec Linac
pulse length.
  The 10 m emittance measurement straight exploits and begins at the 12' shield
wall that separates the MTA Experimental Hall and beamline stub from the Linac
enclosure. A quadrupole triplet has been installed upstream of the shield wall
in order to focus a large, 1.5-2" (~95% width) beam through the shield wall and
onto a profile monitor located at the exit of the shielding. Another profile
monitor has been installed upstream of the shield wall, ~5 m upstream of the
central, or focal-point monitor. With the triplet, a small, 0.2-0.5" spot size
was produced for the initial measurement reported here.
  As will be shown in this report, a small, approximate beam waist located near
a center profile monitor reduces the number of unknown linear optical
parameters to two Courant-Snyder parameters, {\beta} and {\epsilon}, since,
{\alpha}, or the rotation of the phase ellipse can be determined by propagating
the beam envelope from this waist (using the simple linear transfer matrix that
describes a drift).