Since early work on the stability of the first Neptunian Trojan, 2001 QR322,
suggested that it was a dynamically stable, primordial body, it has been
assumed this applies to both that object, and its more recently discovered
brethren. However, it seems that things are no longer so clear cut. In this
work, we present the results of detailed dynamical simulations of the orbital
behaviour of 2001 QR322. Using an ephemeris for the object that has
significantly improved since earlier works, we follow the evolution of 19683
test particles, placed on orbits within the observational error ellipse of 2001
QR322's orbit, for a period of 1 Gyr. We find that majority of these "clones"
of 2001 QR322 are dynamically unstable, exhibiting a near-exponential decay
from both the Neptunian Trojan cloud (decay halflife ~550 Myr) and the Solar
system (decay halflife ~590 Myr). The stability of the object within Neptune's
Trojan cloud is found to be strongly dependent on the initial semi-major axis
used, with those objects located at semimajor axis equal or greater than 30.30
AU being significantly less stable than those interior to this value, as a
result of their having initial libration amplitudes very close to a critical
threshold dividing regular and irregular motion, located at ~70-75 deg (full
extent of angular motion). This result suggests that, if 2001 QR322 is a
primordial Neptunian Trojan, it must be a representative of a population that
was once significantly larger than that we see today, and adds weight to the
idea that the Neptune Trojans may represent a significant source of objects
moving on unstable orbits between the giant planets (the Centaurs).