Two separated sequences of blue straggler stars (BSSs) have been revealed by
Ferraro et al. (2009) in the color-magnitude diagram (CMD) of the Milky Way
globular cluster M30. Their presence has been suggested to be related to the
two BSS formation channels (namely, collisions and mass-transfer in close
binaries) operating within the same stellar system. The blue sequence was
indeed found to be well reproduced by collisional BSS models. In contrast, no
specific models for mass transfer BSSs were available for an old stellar system
like M30. Here we present binary evolution models, including case-B mass
transfer and binary merging, specifically calculated for this cluster. We
discuss in detail the evolutionary track of a $0.9+0.5 M_\odot$ binary, which
spends approximately 4 Gyr in the BSS region of the CMD of a 13 Gyr old
cluster. We also run Monte-Carlo simulations to study the distribution of mass
transfer BSSs in the CMD and to compare it with the observational data. Our
results show that: (1) the color and magnitude distribution of synthetic mass
transfer BSSs defines a strip in the CMD that nicely matches the observed red
BSS sequence, thus providing strong support to the mass transfer origin for
these stars; (2) the CMD distribution of synthetic BSSs never attains the
observed location of the blue BSS sequence, thus reinforcing the hypothesis
that the latter formed through a different channel (likely collisions); (3)
most ($\sim 60\%$) of the synthetic BSSs are produced by mass-transfer models,
while the remaining $< 40\%$ requires the contribution from merger models.