We present the first results of a deep Chandra survey of the inner 1 degree
of the Fornax cluster of galaxies. Ten 50 ksec pointings were obtained in a
mosaic centered on the giant elliptical galaxy NGC 1399 at the nominal cluster
center. Emission and temperature maps of Fornax are presented, and an initial
study of 771 detected X-ray point sources is made. Regions as small as 100pc
are resolved. The intra-cluster gas in Fornax exhibits a highly asymmetric
morphology and temperature structure, dominated by a 180 kpc extended ``plume''
of low surface brightness, cool, ~1 keV) gas to the North-East of NGC 1399 with
a sharper edge to the South West. The elliptical galaxy NGC 1404 also exhibits
a cool halo of X-ray gas within the cluster, with a highly sharpened leading
edge as it presumably falls into the cluster, and a cometary-like tail. We
estimate that some ~200-400 point sources are physically associated with
Fornax. Confirming earlier works, we find that the globular cluster population
in NGC 1399 is highly X-ray active, extending to globulars which may in fact be
intra-cluster systems. We have also found a remarkable correlation between the
location of giant and dwarf cluster galaxies and the presence of X-ray
counterparts, such that systems inhabiting regions of low gas density are more
likely to show X-ray activity. Not only does this correlate with the asymmetry
of the intra-cluster gas but also with the axis joining the center of Fornax to
an infalling group 1 Mpc to the South-West. We suggest that Fornax may be
experiencing an intergalactic ``headwind'' due to motion relative to the
surrounding large-scale structure.