We study the dynamics and evolution of a C2.3 two-ribbon flare, developed on
2002 August 11, during the impulsive and the long gradual phase. To this end we
obtained multiwavelength observations using the CDS spectrometer aboard SOHO,
facilities at the NSO/Sacramento Peak, and the TRACE and RHESSI spacecrafts.
CDS spectroheliograms in the Fe XIX, Fe XVI, O V and He I lines allows us to
determine the velocity field at different heights/temperatures during the flare
and to compare them with the chromospheric velocity fields deduced from H alpha
image differences. TRACE images in the 17.1 nm band greatly help in determining
the morphology and the evolution of the flaring structures. During the
impulsive phase a strong blue-shifted Fe XIX component (-200 km/s) is observed
at the footpoints of the flaring loop system, together with a red-shifted
emission of O V and He I lines (20 km/s). In one footpoint simultaneous H alpha
data are also available and we find, at the same time and location, downflows
with an inferred velocity between 4 and 10 km/s. We also verify that the
"instantaneous" momenta of the oppositely directed flows detected in Fe XIX and
H alpha are equal within one order of magnitude. These signatures are in
general agreement with the scenario of explosive chromospheric evaporation.
Combining RHESSI and CDS data after the coronal upflows have ceased, we prove
that, independently from the filling factor, an essential contribution to the
density of the post-flare loop system is supplied from evaporated chromospheric
material. Finally, we consider the cooling of this loop system, that becomes
successively visible in progressively colder signatures during the gradual
phase. We show that the observed cooling behaviour can be obtained assuming a
coronal filling factor between 0.2 and 0.5.