We present time series photometric and spectroscopic data for the transient
SN 2009ip from the start of its outburst in September 2012 until November 2013.
This data was collected primarily with the new robotic capabilities of the Las
Cumbres Observatory Global Telescope Network, a specialized facility for time
domain astrophysics, and includes supporting high-resolution spectroscopy from
the Southern Astrophysical Research Telescope, Kitt Peak National Observatory,
and Gemini Observatory. Based on our nightly photometric monitoring, we
interpret the strength and timing of fluctuations in the light curve as
interactions between fast-moving ejecta and an inhomogeneous CSM produced by
past eruptions of this massive luminous blue variable (LBV) star. Our time
series of spectroscopy in 2012 reveals that, as the continuum and narrow
H-alpha flux from CSM interactions declines, the broad component of H-alpha
persists with SN-like velocities that are not typically seen in LBVs or SN
Impostor events. At late times we find that SN 2009ip continues to decline
slowly, at <0.01 magnitudes per day, with small fluctuations in slope similar
to Type IIn supernovae (SNe IIn) or SN impostors, but no further LBV-like
activity. The late time spectrum features broad calcium lines similar to both
late time SNe and SN Impostors. In general, we find that the photometric and
spectroscopic evolution of SN 2009ip is more similar to SNe IIn than either
continued eruptions of an LBV star or SN Impostors. In this context, we discuss
the implications for episodic mass loss during the late stages of massive star
evolution.