Recent research has shown that surprisingly rich models of human activity can
be learned from GPS (positional) data. However, most effort to date has
concentrated on modeling single individuals or statistical properties of groups
of people. Moreover, prior work focused solely on modeling actual successful
executions (and not failed or attempted executions) of the activities of
interest. We, in contrast, take on the task of understanding human
interactions, attempted interactions, and intentions from noisy sensor data in
a fully relational multi-agent setting. We use a real-world game of capture the
flag to illustrate our approach in a well-defined domain that involves many
distinct cooperative and competitive joint activities. We model the domain
using Markov logic, a statistical-relational language, and learn a theory that
jointly denoises the data and infers occurrences of high-level activities, such
as a player capturing an enemy. Our unified model combines constraints imposed
by the geometry of the game area, the motion model of the players, and by the
rules and dynamics of the game in a probabilistically and logically sound
fashion. We show that while it may be impossible to directly detect a
multi-agent activity due to sensor noise or malfunction, the occurrence of the
activity can still be inferred by considering both its impact on the future
behaviors of the people involved as well as the events that could have preceded
it. Further, we show that given a model of successfully performed multi-agent
activities, along with a set of examples of failed attempts at the same
activities, our system automatically learns an augmented model that is capable
of recognizing success and failure, as well as goals of peoples actions with
high accuracy. We compare our approach with other alternatives and show that
our unified model, which takes into account not only relationships among
individual players, but also relationships among activities over the entire
length of a game, although more computationally costly, is significantly more
accurate. Finally, we demonstrate that explicitly modeling unsuccessful
attempts boosts performance on other important recognition tasks.