We present high spatial resolution $^{12}$CO ($J=1-0$) images taken by the
Nobeyama 45m telescope toward a $48' \times 48'$ area including the L1641-N
cluster. The effective spatial resolution of the maps is $21"$, corresponding
to 0.04 pc at a distance of 400 pc. A recent 1.1 mm dust continuum map reveals
that the dense gas is concentrated in several thin filaments. We find that a
few dust filaments are located at the parts where $^{12}$CO ($J=1-0$) emission
drops sharply. Furthermore, the filaments have two-components with different
velocities. The velocity difference between the two-components is about 3 km
s$^{-1}$, corresponding to a Mach number of 10, significantly larger than the
local turbulent velocity in the cloud. These facts imply that the collision of
the two components (hereafter, the cloud-cloud collision) possibly contributed
to the formation of these filaments. Since the two components appear to overlap
toward the filaments on the plane of the sky, the collision may have occurred
almost along the line of sight. Star formation in the L1641-N cluster was
probably triggered by such a collision. We also find several parsec-scale CO
shells whose centers are close to either the L1641-N cluster or V 380 Ori
cluster. We propose that these shells were created by multiple winds and/or
outflows from cluster YSOs, i.e., "protocluster winds." One exceptional dust
filament located at the western cloud edge lies along a shell; it is presumably
a part of the expanding shell. Both the cloud-cloud collision and protocluster
winds are likely to influence the cloud structure and kinematics in this
region.