The influence of rotational mixing on the evolution and asteroseismic
properties of solar-type stars is studied. Rotational mixing changes the global
properties of a solar-type star with a significant increase of the effective
temperature resulting in a shift of the evolutionary track to the blue part of
the HR diagram. These differences are related to changes of the chemical
composition, because rotational mixing counteracts the effects of atomic
diffusion leading to larger helium surface abundances for rotating models than
for non-rotating ones. Higher values of the large frequency separation are then
found for rotating models than for non-rotating ones at the same evolutionary
stage, because the increase of the effective temperature leads to a smaller
radius and hence to an increase of the stellar mean density. Rotational mixing
also has a considerable impact on the structure and chemical composition of the
central stellar layers by bringing fresh hydrogen fuel to the core, thereby
enhancing the main-sequence lifetime. The increase of the central hydrogen
abundance together with the change of the chemical profiles in the central
layers result in a significant increase of the values of the small frequency
separations and of the ratio of the small to large separations for models
including shellular rotation. This increase is clearly seen for models with the
same age sharing the same initial parameters except for the inclusion of
rotation as well as for models with the same global stellar parameters and in
particular the same location in the HR diagram. By computing rotating models of
solar-type stars including the effects of a dynamo that possibly occurs in the
radiative zone, we find that the efficiency of rotational mixing is strongly
reduced when the effects of magnetic fields are taken into account, in contrast
to what happens in massive stars.