As part of the Selected Areas Starcount Survey (SASS), a CCD survey to V>21,
we have obtained VI photometry of two fields at b=+-40 aligned roughly with an
extrapolation of the major axis of the Sagittarius (Sgr) dwarf spheroidal
galaxy. Comparison of the color-magnitude diagram (CMD) for some of these
fields to the CMDs of fields reflected about the Galactic l=0 meridian reveals
an excess of stars at V_o=17.85 and 0.9 < (V-I)_o < 1.1 in the (l,b) = (11,-40)
field. The excess stars have colors consistent with the Sgr red clump, and
deeper CMD imaging in these locations shows evidence of a main-sequence turnoff
at V=21 with the main-sequence extending to the limit of our data (V=24). The
surface brightnesses we derive from either the potential excess of red clump
stars or the apparent excess of MSTO stars are consistent with each other and
with the results of other surveys at this latitude. No similar excess appears
in our northern Galactic hemisphere fields near l=353, b=+41 field.
  We have obtained spectroscopy of all 30 candidate red clump stars in the
range 0.9 < (V-I)_o < 1.1 and 17.75 < V_o < 17.95. The radial velocity
distribution of the stars, while dissimilar from expectations of Galactic
structure models, does not show a contribution by stars near the Galactocentric
radial velocity seen in other studies near the Sgr core. It is difficult to
reconcile a photometric result that is consistent with other explorations of
the Sagittarius stream with a radial velocity distribution that is apparently
inconsistent.
  In a companion paper (Johnston et al. 1999), we discuss how some of the
discrepancies are resolved if ur potential Sgr detection corresponds to a
different Sgr tidal streamer than that detected by most other surveys.