The notion of data depth has long been in use to obtain robust location and
scale estimates in a multivariate setting. The depth of an observation is a
measure of its centrality, with respect to a data set or a distribution. The
data depths of a set of multivariate observations translates to a
center-outward ordering of the data. Thus, data depth provides a generalization
of the median to a multivariate setting (the deepest observation), and can also
be used to screen for extreme observations or outliers (the observations with
low data depth). Data depth has been used in the development of a wide range of
robust and non-parametric methods for multivariate data, such as non-parametric
tests of location and scale [Li and Liu (2004)], multivariate rank-tests [Liu
and Singh (1993)], non-parametric classification and clustering [Jornsten
(2004)], and robust regression [Rousseeuw and Hubert (1999)]. Many different
notions of data depth have been developed for multivariate data. In contrast,
data depth measures for functional data have only recently been proposed
[Fraiman and Muniz (1999), L\'{o}pez-Pintado and Romo (2006a)]. While the
definitions of both of these data depth measures are motivated by the
functional aspect of the data, the measures themselves are in fact invariant
with respect to permutations of the domain (i.e. the compact interval on which
the functions are defined). Thus, these measures are equally applicable to
multivariate data where there is no explicit ordering of the data dimensions.
In this paper we explore some extensions of functional data depths, so as to
take the ordering of the data dimensions into account.