In this new era of radioactive beam facilities, the discovery of novel modes
of excitation in nuclei far away from stability represents an area of intense
research activity. In addition, these modes of excitation appear to be
sensitive to the uncertain density dependence of the symmetry energy. We study
the emergence, evolution, and nature of both the soft and giant isoscalar
monopole modes as a function of neutron excess in three unstable Nickel
isotopes: 56Ni, 68Ni, and 78Ni. The distribution of isoscalar monopole strength
is computed in a relativistic random-phase approximation using several
accurately calibrated effective interactions. In particular, a non-spectral
Green's function approach is adopted that allows for an exact treatment of the
continuum without any reliance on discretization. The discretization of the
continuum is neither required nor admitted. In the case of 56Ni, the lack of
low-energy strength results in a direct correlation between the centroid energy
of the giant monopole resonance and the incompressibility coefficient of
symmetric nuclear matter. In contrast, the large neutron excess in both 68Ni
and 78Ni generates a significant, yet relatively featureless, amount of
low-energy strength that is driven by transitions into the continuum. Moreover,
the evolution of monopole strength with neutron excess displays sensitivity to
the density dependence of the symmetry energy. Our results suggest that future
measurements of the distribution of isoscalar monopole strength at radioactive
beam facilities using a very long chain of both stable and unstable isotopes
could place important constraints on the equation of state of neutron-rich
matter and ultimately on the properties of neutron stars. However, given the
nature of the low-energy monopole excitations, a proper treatment of the
continuum is essential.