We present submillimeter (CSO 350um) and millimeter (SEST 1.2 mm, OVRO 3 mm)
photometry for 125 solar-type stars from the FEPS Spitzer Legacy program that
have masses between ~0.5 and 2.0 Msun and ages from 3 Myr to 3 Gyr. Continuum
emission was detected toward four stars with a signal to noise ratio >= 3$: the
classical T Tauri stars RX J1842.9-3532, RX J1852.3-3700, and PDS 66 with SEST,
and the debris disk system HD 107146 with OVRO. RXJ1842.9-3532 and
RXJ1852.3-3700 are located in projection nearby the R CrA molecular cloud with
estimated ages of ~10 Myr, while PDS66 is a probable member of the 20 Myr old
Lower Centaurus-Crux subgroup of the Sco-Cen OB association. The continuum
emission toward these three sources is unresolved at the 24'' SEST resolution
and likely originates from circumstellar accretion disks, each with estimated
dust masses of ~5x10**-5 Msun. Analysis of the visibility data toward HD107146
(age 80-200 Myr) indicates that the 3 mm continuum emission is centered on the
star within the astrometric uncertainties and resolved with a gaussian-fit FWHM
size of (6.5'' +/- 1.4'') x (4.2''+/-1.3''), or 185 AUx120 AU. The results from
our continuum survey are combined with published observations to quantify the
evolution of dust mass with time by comparing the mass distributions for
samples with different stellar ages. The frequency distribution of
circumstellar dust masses around solar-type stars in the Taurus molecular cloud
(age ~2 Myr) is distinguished from that around 3-10 Myr and 10-30 Myr old stars
at a significance level of ~1,5sigma and 3sigma respectively. These results
suggest a decrease in the mass of dust contained in small dust grains and/or
changes in the grain properties by stellar ages of 10-30 Myr, consistent with
previous conclusions. (abridged)