Recently much work in studying Gamma-Ray Burst has been devoted to revealing
the nature of outburst mechanism and studies of GRB afterglows. These issues
have also been closely followed by the quest for identifying GRB progenitors.
In this paper we consider the proposed binary star progenitors of GRBs: white
dwarf neutron star binaries, white dwarf black hole binaries, helium core
neutron star mergers, helium core black hole mergers, double neutron stars and
neutron star black hole binaries. Using population synthesis methods we
calculate merger rates of these binary progenitors and we compare them to the
observed BATSE GRB rate. We also calculate the distribution of merger sites
around host galaxies and compare them to the observed locations of GRB
afterglows with respect to their hosts. We find that the rates of binary GRB
progenitors in our standard model are lower than the observed GRB rates if GRBs
are highly collimated. However, the uncertainty in the population synthesis
results is too large to make this a firm conclusion. Although some
observational signatures seem to point to collapsars as progenitors of long
GRBs, we find that mergers of WD-NS, He-NS, He-BH, and NS-NS systems also trace
the star formation regions of their host galaxies, as it is observed for long
GRBs. We also speculate about possible progenitors of short-duration GRBs. For
these, the most likely candidates are still mergers of compact objects. We find
that the locations NS-NS and NS-BH mergers with respect to their hosts are
significantly different. This may allow to distinguish between these two
progenitor models, once current and near future missions, such as HETE-II or
SWIFT, measure the locations of short GRBs.