Numerical studies of the interplanetary "shock overtaking magnetic cloud
(MC)" event are continued by a 2.5 dimensional magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) model
in heliospheric meridional plane. Interplanetary direct collision (DC)/oblique
collision (OC) between an MC and a shock results from their same/different
initial propagation orientations. For radially erupted MC and shock in solar
corona, the orientations are only determined respectively by their heliographic
locations. OC is investigated in contrast with the results in DC
\citep{Xiong2006}. The shock front behaves as a smooth arc. The cannibalized
part of MC is highly compressed by the shock front along its normal. As the
shock propagates gradually into the preceding MC body, the most violent
interaction is transferred sideways with an accompanying significant narrowing
of the MC's angular width. The opposite deflections of MC body and shock
aphelion in OC occur simultaneously through the process of the shock
penetrating the MC. After the shock's passage, the MC is restored to its oblate
morphology. With the decrease of MC-shock commencement interval, the shock
front at 1 AU traverses MC body and is responsible for the same change trend of
the latitude of the greatest geoeffectiveness of MC-shock compound. Regardless
of shock orientation, shock penetration location regarding the maximum
geoeffectiveness is right at MC core on the condition of very strong shock
intensity. An appropriate angular difference between the initial eruption of an
MC and an overtaking shock leads to the maximum deflection of the MC body. The
larger the shock intensity is, the greater is the deflection angle. The
interaction of MCs with other disturbances could be a cause of deflected
propagation of interplanetary coronal mass ejection (ICME).