We present FUSE observations of the post-asymptotic giant branch star von
Zeipel 1128 (l=42.5, b=+78.7; z=10.0 kpc), located in the globular cluster
Messier 3. The FUSE observations cover the wavelength range 905-1187 Ang at ~20
km/s (FWHM) resolution. These data exhibit many photospheric and interstellar
absorption lines, including absorption from ions associated with the warm
neutral, warm ionized, and highly-ionized phases of the interstellar medium
along this sight line. Ionized hydrogen represents >12%, most likely ~45%, of
the total hydrogen column along this sight line, most of it associated with the
warm ionized phase. The warm ionized and neutral media toward von Zeipel 1128
have very similar gas-phase abundances and kinematics: the neutral and ionized
gases in this region of the thick disk are closely related. Strong O VI
absorption is seen with the same central velocity as the warm ionized gas,
though the O VI velocity dispersion is much higher (sigma=32 km/s). Virtually
all of the O VI is found at velocities where lower-ionization gas is seen,
suggesting the O VI and WNM/WIM probes are tracing different portions of the
same structures (e.g., the O VI may reside in interfaces surrounding the
WNM/WIM clouds). We see no evidence for interstellar absorption associated with
the globular cluster Messier 3 itself nor with the circumstellar environment of
von Zeipel 1128. Neither high velocity cloud absorption (with v(LSR)>125 km/s)
nor high velocity-dispersion gas (with sigma~60 km/s) is seen toward von Zeipel
1128. [Abridged]