Comparing to well protected data frames, Wi-Fi management frames (MFs) are
extremely vulnerable to various attacks. Since MFs are transmitted without
encryption, attackers can forge them easily. Such attacks can be detected in
cooperative environment such as Wireless Intrusion Detection System (WIDS).
However, in non-cooperative environment it is difficult for a single station to
identify these spoofing attacks using Received Signal Strength (RSS)-based
detection, due to the strong correlation of RSS to both the transmission power
(Txpower) and the location of the sender.
  By exploiting some unique characteristics (i.e., rapid spatial decorrelation,
independence of Txpower, and much richer dimensions) of the Channel State
Information (CSI), a standard feature in 802.11n Specification, we design a
prototype, called CSITE, to authenticate the Wi-Fi management frames by a
single station without external support. Our design CSITE, built upon
off-the-shelf hardware, achieves precise spoofing detection without
collaboration and in-advance finger-print. Several novel techniques are
designed to address the challenges caused by user mobility and channel
dynamics. To verify the performances of our solution, we implement a prototype
of our design and conduct extensive evaluations in various scenarios. Our test
results show that our design significantly outperforms the RSS-based method in
terms of accuracy, robustness, and efficiency: we observe about 8 times
improvement by CSITE over RSS-based method on the falsely accepted attacking
frames.