A simple model is constructed to evaluate the change of star formation rate
of a disk galaxy due to environmental effects in clusters of galaxies. Three
effects, (1) tidal force from the potential well of the cluster, (2) increase
of external pressure when the galaxy plows into the intracluster medium, (3)
high-speed encounters between galaxies, are investigated. General analysis
indicates that the star formation rate increases significantly when the
pressure of molecular clouds rises above $\sim 3\times 10^5 cm^{-3} K$ in $\sim
10^8$ yr. The tidal force from the potential well of the cluster increases
pressures of molecular clouds in a disk galaxy infalling towards the cluster
center. Before the galaxy reaches the cluster center, the star formation rate
reaches a maximum. The peak is three to four times larger than the initial
value. If this is the main mechanism of the Butcher-Oemler effect, blue
galaxies are expected to be located within $\sim 300$ kpc from the center of
the cluster. However this prediction is inconsistent with the recent
observations. The increase of external pressure when the galaxy plows into the
intracluster medium does not change star formation rate of a disk galaxy
significantly. The velocity perturbation induced by a single high-speed
encounter between galaxies is too small to affect star formation rate of a disk
galaxy, while successive high-speed encounters (galaxy harassment) trigger star
formation activity because of the accumulation of gas in the galaxy center.
Therefore, the galaxy harassment remains as the candidate for a mechanism of
the Butcher-Oemler effect.