The magnetic field of the classical T Tauri star BP Tau can be approximated
as a superposition of dipole and octupole moments with respective strengths of
the polar magnetic fields of 1.2 kG and 1.6 kG (Donati et al. 2008). We adopt
the measured properties of BP Tau and model the disc accretion onto the star.
We observed in simulations that the disc is disrupted by the dipole component
and matter flows towards the star in two funnel streams which form two
accretion spots below the dipole magnetic poles. The octupolar component
becomes dynamically important very close to the star and it redirects the
matter flow to higher latitudes. The spots are meridionally elongated and are
located at higher latitudes, compared with the pure dipole case, where
crescent-shaped, latitudinally elongated spots form at lower latitudes. The
position and shape of the spots are in good agreement with observations. The
disk-magnetosphere interaction leads to the inflation of the field lines and to
the formation of magnetic towers above and below the disk. The magnetic field
of BP Tau is close to the potential only near the star, inside the
magnetospheric surface, where magnetic stress dominates over the matter stress.
A series of simulation runs were performed for different accretion rates. They
show that an accretion rate is lower than obtained in many observations, unless
the disc is truncated close to the star. The torque acting on the star is about
an order of magnitude lower than that which is required for the rotational
equilibrium. We suggest that a star could lose most of its angular momentum at
earlier stages of its evolution.