We present two BeppoSAX observations of BL Lac (2200+420) as part of a
multiwavelength campaign performed in 2000. The source was in different states
of activity: in June, the X-ray spectrum was faint and hard (alpha sim 0.8),
with positive residuals towards low energies. In October we detected the
highest [2-10] keV flux ever measured for the source. During this observation,
the spectrum was soft (alpha sim 1.56) up to 10 keV, while above this energy a
hard component was dominating. The BeppoSAX data are confirmed by simultaneous
RXTE short observations. During the first observation the soft X-ray flux was
variable on timescales of a few hours, while the hard X-ray flux was almost
constant. During the second observation, instead, the soft spectrum displayed
an erratic behaviour with large variations (up to factors 3-4) on timescales
smaller than 2 hrs. The analysis of the multiwavelength SED of October
evidenced an intriguing feature: the optical and X-ray sections of the SED are
misaligned, while in the prevailing standard picture, they are both thought to
be produced via synchrotron emission. We suggested four scenarios to account
for this discrepancy: a higher than galactic dust-to-gas ratio towards the
source, the first detection of bulk Compton emission in the X-ray band, the
presence of two synchrotron emitting regions located at different distances
from the nucleus, the detection of a Klein-Nishina effect on the synchrotron
spectrum. We evidenced the favorable and critical points of each scenario, but,
at present, we cannot discriminate between them.