Radio relics detected in the outskirts of galaxy clusters are thought to
trace radio-emitting relativistic electrons accelerated at cosmological shocks.
In this study, using the cosmological hydrodynamic simulation data for the
large-scale structure formation and adopting a diffusive shock acceleration
(DSA) model for the production of cosmic-ray (CR) electrons, we construct mock
radio and X-ray maps of simulated galaxy clusters that are projected in the sky
plane. Various properties of shocks and radio relics, including the shock Mach
number, radio spectral index and luminosity are extracted from the synthetic
maps and compared with observations. A substantial fraction of radio and X-ray
shocks identified in these maps involve multiple shock surfaces along line of
sights (LoSs), and the morphology of shock distributions in the maps depends on
the projection direction. Among multiple shocks in a given LoS, radio
observations tend to pick up stronger shocks with flatter radio spectra, while
X-ray observations preferentially select weaker shocks with larger kinetic
energy flux. As a result, the shock Mach numbers and locations derived from
radio and X-ray observations could differ from each other in some cases. We
also find that the distributions of the spectral index and radio power of the
synthetic radio relics are somewhat inconsistent with those of observed real
relics; a bit more radio relics have been observed closer to the cluster core
and with steeper spectral indices. We suggest the inconsistency could be
explained, if very weak shocks with $M_s \la 2$ accelerate CR electrons more
efficiently, compared to the DSA model adopted here.