New near-infrared observations of NGC6528 are presented. The JHK observations
complement a previous HST/NICMOS data set by Ortolani et al. (2001), in that
they sample a larger area, contain a more numerous sample of red giant stars,
and include the K band. Also, archival HST data sets (separated by 6.093 years)
were used to proper-motion decontaminate the near-infrared sample and extract a
clean VJHK catalogue. Using the present wide colour baseline, we compared the
cleaned colour-magnitude diagrams of NGC6528 with those of NGC 6553 and NGC104
and derived new estimates of reddening and distance, E(B-V)=0.55 and
(m-M)o=14.44 (7.7 kpc). Moreover, the morphology and location of the cleaned
red giant branch were used to derive a photometric estimate of the cluster
metallicity. The average of 10 metallicity indicators yields a mean value of
[M/H] ~ 0.0, and [Fe/H] ~-0.20 and +0.08 on the Zinn & West (1984) and Carretta
& Gratton (1997) revised metallicity scale, respectively. The best isochrone
fit to the cleaned K,V-K diagram is obtained for a 12.6 Gyr and Z=0.02
isochrone, i.e. the derived metallicity of NGC6528 turns out to be very close
to the mean of stars in the Baade's Window. Five AGB variable star candidates,
whose membership has to be confirmed spectroscopically, are bolometrically as
bright as the known long period variable stars in NGC6553. As discussed in
Guarnieri et al. (1997) for NGC6553, this may indicate that an `intermediate
age' population is not needed to account for the brightest stars in external
galaxies such as M32.