Layered superconductors in tilted magnetic field have a very rich spectrum of
vortex lattice configurations. In the presence of in-plane magnetic field, a
small c-axis field penetrates in the form of isolated vortex chains. The
structure of a single chain is mainly determined by the ratio of the London
[$\lambda$] and Josephson [$\lambda_{J}$] lengths, $\alpha=
\lambda/\lambda_{J}$. At large $\alpha$ the chain is composed of tilted
vortices [tilted chains] and at small $\alpha$ it consists of a crossing array
of Josephson vortices and pancake stacks [crossing chains]. We studied the
chain structures at intermediate $\alpha$'s and found two types of behavior.
(I) In the range $0.4 < \alpha < 0.5$ a c-axis field first penetrates in the
form of pancake-stack chains located on Josephson vortices. Due to attractive
coupling between deformed stacks, their density jumps from zero to a finite
value. With further increase of the c-axis field the chain structure smoothly
evolves into modulated tilted vortices and then transforms via a second-order
phase transition, into the tilted straight vortices. (II) In the range $0.5 <
\alpha < 0.65$ a c-axis field first penetrates in the form of kinks creating
kinked tilted vortices. With increasing the c-axis field this structure is
replaced via a first-order phase transition by the strongly deformed crossing
chain. This transition is accompanied by a large jump of pancake density.
Further evolution of the chain structure is similar to the higher anisotropy
scenario: it smoothly transforms back into the tilted straight vortices.