As part of our survey for substructure in the Milky Way halo as traced by
giant stars, and to look for tidal stellar debris in the halo viable for
measurement of the Galactic mass potential with SIM, we explore the
distribution of stars beyond the nominal tidal radius of, but still associated
with, the Carina dwarf spheroidal galaxy. We make use of a photometric
technique described in Majewski et al. (1999) to identify giant star candidates
at the distance and metallicity of Carina across the entire extent of the
photometric survey covering some 2.2 deg^2 on and around Carina. These
Carina-associated giant candidates are identified by a combination of (1) their
M-DDO51 colors, and (2) by locations in the color-magnitude diagram
commensurate with the Carina RGB in the core of the galaxy. The density
distribution of the extratidal giant candidates is similar to that found from
previous statistical star-counting approaches. However, we are now able to
pinpoint actual, remotely-situated Carina stars individually. Because we can
exclude foreground dwarf stars, our approach allows greater sensitivity and the
ability to map the detailed two-dimensional distribution of extended Carina
populations to much larger radii, with smaller aperture telescopes, than other
techniques. Moreover, we identify candidate lists of widely displaced
Carina-associated stars bright enough for spectroscopic studies of large-scale
dynamical and metallicity properties of the system, and for astrometric study
by SIM. We obtained spectroscopy for three such ``extratidal'' stars and from
their radial velocities conclude that all three are associated with Carina.