We determine the cross-correlation function between galaxies and galaxy
groups, using both the Two-Degree Field Galaxy Redshift Survey (2dFGRS) and the
Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). We study the cross-correlation as a function
of group mass, and as a function of the luminosity, stellar mass, colour,
spectral type and specific star formation rate of the galaxies. All these
cross-correlation functions show a clear transition from the `1-halo' to the
`2-halo' regimes on a scale comparable to the virial radius of the groups in
consideration. On scales larger than the virial radius, all cross-correlation
functions are roughly parallel, consistent with the linear bias model. In
particular, the large scale correlation amplitudes are higher for more massive
groups, and for brighter and redder galaxies. In the `1-halo' regime, the
cross-correlation function depends strongly on the definition of the group
center. We consider both a luminosity-weighted center (LWC) and a center
defined by the location of the brightest group galaxy (BGC). With the first
definition, the bright early-type galaxies in massive groups are found to be
more centrally concentrated than the fainter, late-type galaxies. Using the
BGC, and excluding the brightest galaxy from the cross correlation analysis, we
only find significant segregation in massive groups ($M \gta
10^{13}h^{-1}\msun$) for galaxies of different spectral types (or colours or
specific star formation rates). In haloes with masses $\la 10^{13}h^{-1}\msun$,
there is a significant deficit of bright satellite galaxies. Comparing the
results from the 2dFGRS with those obtained from realistic mock samples, we
find that the distribution of galaxies in groups is much less concentrated than
dark matter haloes predicted by the current $\Lambda$CDM model. (Abridged)