We present emission line mapping of the strongly barred galaxy NGC 1530
obtained from Fabry-Perot interferometry in Halpha, at significantly enhanced
angular resolution compared with published studies. The main point of the work
is to examine in detail the non-circular components of the velocity field of
the gas, presumably induced by the strongly non-axisymmetric gravitational
potential of the bar. These reveal quasi-elliptical motions with speeds of
order 100 km/s aligned with the bar. It also shows how these flows swing in
towards and around the nucleus as they cross a circumnuclear resonance, from
the dominant "x1 orbits" outside the resonance to "x2 orbits" within it.
Comparing cross-sections of the residual velocity map along and across the bar
with the Halpha intensity map indicates a systematic offset between regions of
high non-circular velocity and massive star formation. To investigate further
we produce velocity gradient maps along and across the bar. These illustrate
very nicely the shear compression of the gas, revealed by the location of the
dust lanes along loci of maximum velocity gradient perpendicular to the bar.
They also show clearly how shear acts to inhibit massive star formation,
whereas shocks act to enhance it. Although the inhibiting effect of gas shear
flow on star formation has long been predicted, this is the clearest
observational illustration so far of the effect. It is also the clearest
evidence that dust picks out shock-induced inflow along bars. These
observations should be of considerable interest to those modelling massive star
formation in general.