The paper describes differences in the intensity as a function of radial
distance of anomalous and galactic cosmic rays in the N-S heliosheaths as
observed by the Voyager 1 and 2 spacecraft respectively. The anomalous cosmic
ray (ACR) intensities above a few MeV in the N heliosheath reach a maximum at
~2009.5, about 16 AU beyond the heliospheric current sheet (HTS), thus
indicating a possible source location for these higher energy particles. The
galactic cosmic ray electron and nuclei intensities continue to increase
rapidly throughout the entire N-heliosheath out to 121.7 AU. Two sudden
increases of these electrons at 16.6 and 22.2 AU beyond the HTS suggest that
the V1 spacecraft passed significant heliosheath structures at these times.
Later, at 121.7 AU, which is a distance of 27.6 AU beyond the initial HTS
crossing distance, V1 in the N heliosheath appears to pass beyond the ACR
trapping region as the anomalous particles disappear suddenly and completely.
At V2 in the S heliosheath, large 42-21 day periodic intensity variations were
observed for a few MeV particles just beyond the HTS crossing distance at 83.7
AU and again about a year later when V2 was ~4 AU beyond this shock. These are
the dominant features of the energetic particle populations in the inner part
of the S-heliosheath. The ACR and electrons later decreased to almost
background levels until a sudden increase at 2011.25, at a distance of about 10
AU beyond the HTS. The features observed by V2 in the S heliosheath relative to
those at V1 indicate a much more structured S heliosheath in which the latitude
of V2 relative to the HCS maximum latitude (sector zone) may play an important
role. Estimates of a S heliosheath trapping/modulation boundary for energetic
particles in the range 105-110 AU are obtained in this paper from a comparison
with those at 121.7 AU observed in the N hemisphere.