We present results on the evolution in the last 6 Gyr of the structural
parameters of two samples of brightest cluster galaxies (BCGs). The nearby
sample of BCGs consist on 69 galaxies from the WINGS survey spanning a redshift
range of 0.04$<$z$<$0.07. The intermediate redshift (0.3$<$z$<$0.6) sample is
formed by 20 BCGs extracted from the Hubble Space Telescope archive. Both
samples have similar spatial resolution and their host clusters have similar
X-ray luminosities. We report an increase in the size of the BCGs from
intermediate to local redshift. However, we do not detect any variation in the
S\'ersic shape parameter in both samples. These results are proved to be robust
since the observed tendencies are model independent. We also obtain significant
correlations between some of the BCGs parameters and the main properties of the
host clusters. More luminous, larger and centrally located BCGs are located in
more massive and dominant galaxy clusters. These facts indicate that the host
galaxy cluster has played an important role in the formation of their BCGs. We
discuss the possible mechanisms that can explain the observed evolution of the
structural parameters of the BCGs. We conclude that the main mechanisms that
can explain the increase in size and the non-evolution in the S\'ersic shape
parameter of the BCGs in the last 6 Gyr are feedback processes. This result
disagrees with semi-analytical simulation results supporting that merging
processes are the main responsible for the evolution of the BCGs until the
present epoch.