We used the direct CCD camera at the Magellan I telescope at Las Campanas
Observatory and FORS1 at Antu VLT at ESO Paranal Observatory to image fields
centered on the inner and outer optical filaments in the halo of NGC 5128. In
the V vs. U-V color-magnitude diagrams we have identified young blue
supergiants associated with these line-emitting filaments located between the
inner radio lobe and the northern middle lobe. Around the outer filament stars
as young as 10 Myr were detected. They are principally aligned with the
direction of the radio jet, but a vertical north-east alignment along the edge
of the HI cloud is also present. Young stars in the inner filament field are
found inside the bright knots of photoionized gas and are strongly aligned in
the direction towards the center of the galaxy at the same position angle as
the inner radio jet. Fitting the Padova isochrones on UV color-magnitude
diagrams we find that the blue stars around the inner filaments have ages
similar to the ones around the outer filaments ~10-15 Myr and the same
abundance of Z=0.004. The presence of young blue supergiants clearly shows that
the bright blue knots in the north-eastern halo of NGC 5128 are associations of
young stars with photoionized gas. The temperature of the brightest stars is T
\~ 12000-16000 K, insufficient to account alone for the high excitation lines
observed in the surrounding ionized gas. Thus the optical emission jet is
principally seen due to its alignment with the radio structure of the AGN. The
highly collimated star formation is present only in the north eastern halo of
the galaxy, suggesting the interaction of the jet with the gas clouds deposited
during the last accretion event as the preferred triggering mechanism.
(abridged)