The tidal evolution of planets orbiting brown dwarfs (BDs) presents an
interesting case study because BDs' terrestrial planet forming region is
located extremely close-in. In fact, the habitable zones of BDs range from
roughly 0.001 to 0.03 AU and for the lowest-mass BDs are located interior to
the Roche limit. In contrast with stars, BDs spin up as they age. Thus, the
corotation distance moves inward. This has important implications for the tidal
evolution of planets around BDs. We used a standard equilibrium tidal model to
compute the orbital evolution of a large ensemble of planet-BD systems. We
tested the effect of numerous parameters such as the initial semi-major axis
and eccentricity, the rotation period of the BD, the masses of both the BD and
planet, and the tidal dissipation factors. We find that all planets that form
at or beyond the corotation distance and with initial eccentricities smaller
than \sim 0.1 are repelled from the BD. Some planets initially interior to
corotation can survive if their inward tidal evolution is slower than the BD's
spin evolution, but most initially close-in planets fall onto the BD. We find
that the most important parameter for the tidal evolution is the initial
orbital distance with respect to the corotation distance. Some planets can
survive in the habitable zone for Gyr timescales, although in many cases the
habitable zone moves inward past the planet's orbit in just tens to hundreds of
Myr. Surviving planets can have orbital periods of less than 10 days (as small
as 10 hrs), so they could be observable by transit.