We present a new mid-infrared (12.5micron) map of the BN/KL high-mass
star-forming complex in Orion using the LWS instrument at Keck I. Despite poor
weather we achieved nearly diffraction-limited images (FWHM = 0.38'') over a
roughly 25'' X 25'' region centered on IRc2 down to a flux limit of ~250 mJy.
Many of the known infrared (IR) sources in the region break up into smaller
sub-components. We have also detected 6 new mid-IR sources. Nearly all of the
sources are resolved in our mosaic. The near-IR source ''n'' is slightly
elongated in the mid-IR along a NW--SE axis and perfectly bisects the
double-peaked radio source ''L''. Source n has been identified as a candidate
for powering the large IR luminosity of the BN/KL region (L = 10^5 L_sun). We
postulate that the 12 micron emission arises in a circumstellar disk
surrounding source n. The morphology of the mid-IR emission and the Orion ''hot
core'' (as seen in NH_3 emission), along with the location of water and OH
masers, is very suggestive of a bipolar cavity centered on source n and aligned
with the rotation axis of the hypothetical circumstellar disk. IRc2, once
thought to be the dominant energy source for the BN/KL region, clearly breaks
into 4 sub-sources in our mosaic, as seen previously at 3.8 -- 5.0 micron. The
anti-correlation of mid-IR emission and NH_3 emission from the nearby hot core
indicates that the IRc2 sources are roughly coincident (or behind) the dense
hot core. The nature of IRc2 is not clear: neither self-luminous sources
(embedded protostars) nor external heating by source I can be definitively
ruled out. We also report the discovery of a new arc-like feature SW of the BN
object, and some curious morphology surrounding near-IR source ''t".