We obtained FLAMES-GIRAFFE spectra (R=22,500) at the ESO Very Large Telescope
for 650 bulge red giant branch (RGB) stars and performed spectral synthesis to
measure Mg, Ca, Ti, and Si abundances. This sample is composed of 474 giant
stars observed in 3 fields along the minor axis of the Galactic bulge and at
latitudes b=-4, b=-6, b=-12. Another 176 stars belong to a field containing the
globular cluster NGC 6553, located at b=-3 and 5 degrees away from the other
three fields along the major axis. Our results confirm, with large number
statistics, the chemical similarity between the Galactic bulge and thick disk,
which are both enhanced in alpha elements when compared to the thin disk. In
the same context, we analyze [alpha/Fe] vs. [Fe/H] trends across different
bulge regions. The most metal rich stars, showing low [alpha/Fe] ratios at b=-4
disappear at higher Galactic latitudes in agreement with the observed
metallicity gradient in the bulge. Metal-poor stars ([Fe/H]<-0.2) show a
remarkable homogeneity at different bulge locations. We have obtained further
constrains for the formation scenario of the Galactic bulge. A metal-poor
component chemically indistinguishable from the thick disk hints for a fast and
early formation for both the bulge and the thick disk. Such a component shows
no variation, neither in abundances nor kinematics, among different bulge
regions. A metal-rich component showing low [alpha/Fe] similar to those of the
thin disk disappears at larger latitudes. This allows us to trace a component
formed through fast early mergers (classical bulge) and a disk/bar component
formed on a more extended timescale.