Approximately 24 million pregnant women in Sub-Saharan Africa are at risk of
suffering from pregnancy malaria complications. Mechanisms responsible for
increased susceptibility to malaria in pregnant women are not fully understood.
Baboons are susceptible to Plasmodium knowlesi and their reproductive
physiology and host pathogen interactions are similar to those in humans,
making them attractive for development as a model for studying mechanisms
underlying pregnancy malaria. This study exploited the susceptibility of
baboons to Plasmodium knowlesi infection to characterize cytokine and
peripheral blood mononuclear cell recall proliferation responses underlying the
pathogenesis of pregnancy malaria in baboons infected with Plasmodium knowlesi.
The pregnancies of three time mated adult female baboons and their gestational
levels were confirmed by ultrasonography. On the 150th day of gestation, the
pregnant baboons together with four non pregnant controls were infected with
Plasmodium knowlesi H strain parasites. Collection of peripheral sera, and
mononuclear cells was then done on a weekly basis. Sera cytokine concentrations
were measured by Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) using respective
enzyme conjugated antibodies. Peripheral blood mononuclear cell recall
proliferation assays were also done on a weekly basis. Results indicate that
pregnancy malaria in this model is associated with suppression of interferon
gamma and interleukin 6 (IL-6) responses. Tumour necrosis factor alpha
responses were upregulated while IL-4, IL-12 and recall proliferation responses
were not different from controls. These data to a great extent are consistent
with some findings from human studies, showing the feasibility of this model
for studying mechanisms underlying pregnancy malaria.