Analyzing the (l, b, Vlsr) data cube of 13CO(J=1-0) line emission obtained by
Bally et al, we have investigated the molecular gas distribution and kinematics
in the central +/-1 deg (150 pc) region of the Galaxy. We have applied the
pressing method to remove the local- and foreground-gas components at low
velocities in order to estimate the intensity more quantitatively. Two major
dense molecular arms have been identified in longitude-radial velocity diagrams
as apparently rigidly-rotating ridges. The ridges are spatially identified as
two arms, which we call the Galactic Center molecular Arms (GCA). The arms
compose a rotating ring of radius 120 pc (the 120-pc Molecular Ring), whose
inclination is about 85 deg. The Sgr B molecular complex is associated with GCA
I, and Sgr C complex is located on GCA II. These arms are as thin as 13 to 15
pc, except for vertically extended massive complexes around Sgr B and C. The LV
behavior of the arms can be qualitatively reproduced by a model which assumes
spiral arms of gas. Assuming a small pitch angle for the arms, we tried to
deconvolve the LV diagram to a projection on the galactic plane, and present a
possible face-on CO map as seen from the galactic pole, which also reveals a
molecular ring and arms. We have estimated masses of these molecular features,
using the most recent value of the CO-to-H2 conversion factor taking into
account its metallicity dependency and radial gradient in the Galaxy. The
estimated molecular masses and kinetic energy are about a factor of three
smaller than those reported in the literature using the conventional conversion
factor.