We present a spectrophotometric study based on VLT/FORS I observations of one
of the most metal-deficient blue compact dwarf (BCD) galaxies known, Tol
1214-277 (Z ~ Zsun/25). The data show that roughly half of the total luminosity
of the BCD originates from a bright and compact starburst region located at the
northeastern tip of a faint dwarf galaxy with cometary appearance. The
starburst has ignited less than 4 Myr ago and its emission is powered by
several thousands O7V stars and ~ 170 late-type nitrogen Wolf-Rayet stars
located within a compact region with < 500 pc in diameter. For the first time
in a BCD, a relatively strong [Fe V] 4227 emission line is seen which together
with intense He II 4686 emission indicates the presence of a very hard
radiation field in Tol 1214-277. We argue that this extraordinarily hard
radiation originates from both Wolf--Rayet stars and radiative shocks in the
starburst region. The structural properties of the low-surface-brightness (LSB)
component underlying the starburst have been investigated by means of surface
photometry down to 28 B mag/sq.arcsec. We find that, for a surface brightness
level fainter than ~ 24.5 B mag/sq.arcsec, an exponential fitting law provides
an adequate approximation to its radial intensity distribution. The broad-band
colors in the outskirts of the LSB component of Tol 1214-277 are nearly
constant and are consistent with an age below one Gyr. This conclusion is
supported by the comparison of the observed spectral energy distribution (SED)
of the LSB host with theoretical SEDs.