We present direct evidence for the detection of the main energy release site
in a non-eruptive solar flare, SOL2013-11-09T06:38UT. This GOES C2.7 event was
characterised by two flaring ribbons and a compact, bright coronal source
located between them, which is the focus of our study. We use imaging from
SDO/AIA, and imaging spectroscopy from RHESSI to characterise the thermal and
non-thermal emission from the coronal source, and EUV spectroscopy from the
Hinode/EIS, which scanned the coronal source during the impulsive peak, to
analyse Doppler shifts in Fe XII and Fe XXIV emission lines, and determine the
source density. The coronal source exhibited an impulsive emission lightcurve
in all AIA filters during the impulsive phase. RHESSI hard X-ray images
indicate both thermal and non-thermal emission at the coronal source, and its
plasma temperature derived from RHESSI imaging spectroscopy shows an impulsive
rise, reaching a maximum at 12-13 MK about 10 seconds prior to the hard X-ray
peak. High redshifts associated with this bright source indicate downflows of
40-250 km/s at a broad range of temperatures, interpreted as loop shrinkage
and/or outflows along the magnetic field. Outflows from the coronal source
towards each ribbon are also observed by AIA images at 171, 193, 211, 304 and
1600 A. The electron density of the source obtained from a Fe XIV line pair is
$10^{11.50}$ which is collisionally thick to electrons with energy up to 45-65
keV, responsible for the source's non-thermal X-ray emission. We conclude that
the bright coronal source is the location of the main release of magnetic
energy in this flare, with a geometry consistent with component reconnection
between crossing, current-carrying loops. We argue that the energy that can be
released via reconnection, based on observational estimates, can plausibly
account for the non-thermal energetics of the flare.