Recent high precision measurements of the CMB anisotropies performed by the
BOOMERanG and MAXIMA-1 experiments provide an unmatched set of data allowing to
probe different cosmological models. Among these scenarios, motivated by the
recent measurements of the luminosity distance versus redshift relation for
type Ia supernovae, is the quintessence hypothesis. It consists in assuming
that the acceleration of the Universe is due to a scalar field whose final
evolution is insensitive to the initial conditions. Within this framework we
investigate the cosmological perturbations for two well-motivated potentials:
the Ratra-Peebles and the SUGRA tracking potentials. We show that the solutions
of the perturbed equations possess an attractor and that, as a consequence, the
insensitivity to the initial conditions is preserved at the perturbed level.
Then, we study the predictions of these two models for structure formation and
CMB anisotropies and investigate the general features of the multipole moments
in the presence of quintessence. We also compare the CMB multipoles calculated
with the help of a full Boltzmann code with the BOOMERanG and MAXIMA-1 data. We
pay special attention to the location of the second peak and demonstrate that
it significantly differs from the location obtained in the cosmological
constant case. Finally, we argue that the SUGRA potential is compatible with
all the recent data with a standard values of the cosmological parameters. In
particular, it fits the MAXIMA-1 data better than a cosmological constant or
the Ratra-Peebles potential.