Trumpler 20 is an old open cluster (OC) located toward the Galactic centre,
at about 3 kpc from the Sun and $\sim$7 kpc from the Galactic centre. Its
position makes this cluster particularly interesting in the framework of the
chemical properties of the Galactic disc because very few old OCs reside in the
inner part of the disc. For this reason it has been selected as a cluster
target of the Gaia-ESO Survey, and spectra of many stars in the main sequence
and red clump phases are now available. Moreover, although it has been studied
by several contributors in the past, no consensus on the evolutionary status of Tr
20 has been reached. The heavy contamination of field stars (the line of sight
of Tr 20 crosses the Carina spiral arm) complicates a correct interpretation.
Another interesting aspect of the cluster is that it shows a broadened
main-sequence turn-off and a prominent and extended red-clump, characteristics
that are not easily explained by classical evolutionary models. Exploiting both
spectroscopic information from the Gaia-ESO Survey (and the ESO archive) and
literature photometry, we obtain a detailed and accurate analysis of the
properties of the cluster. We make use of the first accurate metallicity
measurement ever obtained from several spectra of red clump stars, and of
cluster membership determination using radial velocities. According to the
evolutionary models adopted, we find that Tr 20 has an age in the range
1.35-1.66 Gyr, an average reddening $E(B-V)$ in the range 0.31-0.35 mag, and a
distance modulus $(m-M)_0$ between 12.64 and 12.72 mag. The spectroscopic
metallicity is [Fe/H]=+0.17 dex. We discuss the structural properties of the
object and constrain possible hypotheses for its broadened upper main sequence
by estimating the effect of differential reddening and its extended red clump.