Background: Until now the knowledge about nucleon resonances with a mass
higher than 2 GeV has been scarce. Huge amounts of experimental data of the
multipion photoproduction have been accumulated, and more can be expected in
the future in facilities such as JLab 12 GeV. It makes it possible to
investigate the decay of a nucleon resonance into another nucleon resonance.
Purpose: The possibility to research the decay of the $N(2120)$ to nucleon
resonances near 1.7 GeV in the three-pion photoproduction will be explored to
provide useful information for future experimental study. Method: The pion and
radiative decay amplitudes of nucleon resonances are studied within the
constituent quark model, which is used to calculate the couplings constants,
especially for the decay of a nucleon resonance near 2.1 GeV to another nucleon
resonance near 1.7 GeV. The three-pion photoproduction off the neutron target,
i.e.,$\gamma n \to\pi^{-}\pi^{-}\Delta^{++}\to \pi^{-}\pi^{-}\pi^+ p$, is
investigated based on the effective Lagrangian method with the coupling
constant obtained form the decay amplitudes. Results: The resonance
contribution with a state $N(^2P_M)\frac{3}{2}^{-}$ near 2.1 GeV decaying to a
state $N(^4P_M)\frac{5}{2}^{-}$ near 1.7 GeV, i.\ e., $N(2120)\to N(1675)\pi$
is dominant in the process considered. The total cross section from the
resonance contribution is at the order of 1 $\mu$b and can be easily
distinguished from the background. Conclusions: Our results suggest it is
practicable to research the decay of the $N(2120)$ to the $N(1675)$ in
experiment.