NGC 6822 is an irregular dwarf galaxy and part of the Local Group. Its close
proximity and apparent isolation provide a unique opportunity to study galactic
evolution without any obvious strong external influences. This paper aims to
study the spatial distribution of the asymptotic giant branch (AGB) population
and metallicity in NGC 6822. Using deep, high quality JHK photometry, taken
with WFCAM on UKIRT, carbon- and oxygen-rich AGB stars have been isolated. The
ratio between their number, the C/M ratio, has then been used to derive the
[Fe/H] abundance across the galaxy. The tip of the red giant branch is located
at K0 = 17.41 \pm 0.11 mag and the colour separation between carbon- and
oxygen-rich AGB stars is at (J - K)0 = 1.20 \pm 0.03 mag (i.e. (J - K)2MAS S
{\guillemotright} 1.28 mag). A C/M ratio of 0.62 \pm 0.03 has been derived in
the inner 4 kpc of the galaxy, which translates into an iron abundance of
[Fe/H] = -1.29\pm0.07 dex. Variations of these parameters were investigated as
a function of distance from the galaxy centre and azimuthal angle. The AGB
population of NGC 6822 has been detected out to a radius of 4 kpc giving a
diameter of 56 arcmin. It is metal-poor, but there is no obvious gradient in
metallicity with either radial distance from the centre or azimuthal angle. The
detected spread in the TRGB magnitude is consistent with that of a galaxy
surrounded by a halo of old stars. The C/M ratio has the potential to be a very
useful tool for the determination of metallicity in resolved galaxies but a
better calibration of the C/M vs. [Fe/H] relation and a better understanding of
the sensitivities of the C/M ratio to stellar selection criteria is first
required.