The heating and cooling of transiently accreting neutron stars provides a
powerful probe of the structure and composition of their crust. Observations of
superbursts and crust cooling of accretion-heated neutron stars require more
heat release than is accounted for in current models. Obtaining firm
constraints on the depth and magnitude of this extra heat is challenging and
therefore its origin remains uncertain. We report on Swift and XMM-Newton
observations of the transient neutron star low-mass X-ray binary XTE J1709-267,
which were made in 2012 September-October when it transitioned to quiescence
after a ~10-week long accretion outburst. The source is detected with
XMM-Newton at a 0.5-10 keV luminosity of Lx~2E34 (D/8.5 kpc)^2 erg/s. The X-ray
spectrum consists of a thermal component that fits to a neutron star atmosphere
model and a non-thermal emission tail, which each contribute ~50% to the total
emission. The neutron star temperature decreases from ~158 to ~152 eV during
the ~8-hour long observation. This can be interpreted as cooling of a crustal
layer located at a column density of y~5E12 g/cm^2 (~50 m inside the neutron
star), which is just below the ignition depth of superbursts. The required heat
generation in the layers on top would be ~0.06-0.13 MeV per accreted nucleon.
The magnitude and depth rule out electron captures and nuclear fusion reactions
as the heat source, but it may be accounted for by chemical separation of light
and heavy nuclei. Low-level accretion offers an alternative explanation for the
observed variability.