The IC1396A globule in the young cluster Tr37, hosting many young stars and
protostars, is assumed to be a site of triggered star formation. We mapped
IC1396A with Herschel/PACS at 70 and 160 micron. The Herschel maps trace in
great detail the very embedded protostellar objects and the structure of the
cloud. PACS data reveal a previously unknown Class 0 object (IC1396A-PACS-1)
located behind the ionization front. IC1396A-PACS-1 is not detectable with
Spitzer, but shows marginal X-ray emission. The data also allowed to study
three of the Class I intermediate-mass objects within the cloud. We derived
approximate cloud temperatures to study the effect and potential interactions
between the protostars and the cloud. The Class 0 object is associated with the
densest and colder part of IC1396A. Heating in the cloud is dominated by the
winds and radiation of the O6.5 star HD 206267 and, to a lesser extent, by the
effects of the Herbig Ae star V 390 Cep. The surroundings of the Class I and
Class II objects embedded in the cloud also appear warmer than the sourceless
areas, although most of the low-mass objects cannot be individually extracted
due to distance and beam dilution. The observations suggest that at least two
episodes of star formation have occurred in IC1396A. One would have originated
the known, ~1 Myr-old Class I and II objects in the cloud, and a new wave of
star formation would have produced the Class 0 source at the tip of the
brigth-rimmed cloud. From its location and properties, IC1396A-PACS-1 is
consistent with triggering via radiative driven implosion (RDI) induced by HD
206267. The mechanisms behind the formation of the more evolved population of
Class I/II/III objects in the cloud are uncertain. Heating of most of the
remaining cloud by Class I/Class II objects and by HD 206267 itself may
preclude further star formation in the region.