We present analytical and numerical studies of phase-coherent dynamics of
intrinsically localized excitations (breathers) in a system of two weakly
coupled nonlinear oscillator chains. We show that there are two qualitatively
different dynamical regimes of the coupled breathers, either immovable or
slowly-moving: the periodic transverse translation (wandering) of low-amplitude
breather between the chains, and the one-chain-localization of high-amplitude
breather. These two modes of coupled nonlinear excitations, which involve large
number of anharmonic oscillators, can be mapped onto two solutions of a single
pendulum equation, detached by a separatrix mode. We also study two-chain
breathers, which can be considered as bound states of discrete breathers with
different symmetry and center locations in the coupled chains, and bifurcation
of the anti-phase two-chain breather into the one-chain one. Delocalizing
transition of 1D breather in 2D system of a large number of parallel coupled
nonlinear chains is described, in which the breather, initially excited in a
given chain, abruptly spreads its vibration energy in the whole 2D system upon
decreasing breather frequency or amplitude below the threshold one. The
threshold breather frequency is above the cut off phonon frequency in 2D
system, and the threshold breather amplitude scales as square root of the
inter-chain coupling constant. Delocalizing transition of discrete vibrational
breather in 2D and 3D systems of coupled nonlinear chains has an analogy with
delocalizing transition for Bose-Einstein condensates in 2D and 3D optical
lattices.