Ongoing and future wide-field galaxy surveys can be used to locate a number
of clusters of galaxies with cosmic shear measurement alone. We study
constraints on cosmological models using statistics of weak lensing selected
galaxy clusters. We extend our previous theoretical framework to model the
statistical properties of clusters in variants of cosmological models as well
as in the standard LCDM model. Weak lensing selection of clusters does not rely
on the conventional assumption such as the relation between luminosity and mass
and/or hydrostatic equilibrium, but a number of observational effects
compromise robust identification. We use a large set of realistic mock
weak-lensing catalogs as well as analytic models to perform a Fisher analysis
and make forecast for constraining two competing cosmological models, wCDM
model and f(R) model proposed by Hu & Sawicki, with our lensing statistics. We
show that weak lensing selected clusters are excellent probe of cosmology when
combined with cosmic shear power spectrum even in presence of galaxy shape
noise and masked regions. With the information of weak lensing selected
clusters, the precision of cosmological parameter estimate can be improved by a
factor of ~1.3 and ~10 for wCDM model and f(R) model, respectively. Hyper
Suprime-Cam survey with sky coverage of 1250 squared degrees can constrain the
equation of state of dark energy w_0 with a level of Delta w_0 ~0.1. It can
also constrain the additional scalar degree of freedom in f(R) model with a
level of |f_R0| ~6x10^{-6}, when constraints from cosmic microwave background
measurements are incorporated. Future weak lensing surveys with sky coverage of
20,000 squared degrees will place tighter constraints on w_0 and |f_R0| even
without cosmic microwave background measurements.