We present Spitzer IRAC images, along with representative 5.27 to 38.5 micron
IRS spectra of the Cassiopeia A supernova remnant. We find that various IRAC
channels are each most sensitive to a different spectral and physical
component. Channel 1 (3.6 micron) matches radio synchrotron images. Where
Channel 1 is strong with respect to the other channels, the longer-wavelength
spectra show a broad continuum gently peaking around 26 micron, with weak or no
lines. We suggest that this is due to un-enriched progenitor circumstellar dust
behind the outer shock, processed by shock photons and electrons. Where Channel
4 (8 micron) is bright relative to the other IRAC channels, the long-wavelength
spectra show a strong, 2-3 micron-wide peak at 21 micron, likely due to
silicates and proto-silicates, as well as strong ionic lines of [Ar II], [Ar
III], [S IV] and [Ne II]. In these locations, the dust and ionic emission
originate from the explosion's O-burning layers. The regions where Channels 2
(4.5 micron) and 3 (5.6 micron) are strongest relative to Channel 4 show a
spectrum that rises gradually to 21 micron, and then flattens or rises more
slowly to longer wavelengths, along with higher ratios of [Ne II] to [Ar II].
Dust and ionic emission in these locations arise primarily from the C- and Ne-
burning layers. These findings are consistent with asymmetries in the explosion
producing variations in the velocity structure in different directions, but
preserving the nucleosynthetic layers. At each location, the dust and ionic
lines in the mid-infrared, and the hotter and more highly ionized optical and
X-ray emission are then dominated by the layer currently encountering the
reverse shock in that direction.