We present new observational results on high-velocity clouds (HVCs) based on
an analysis of the Leiden/Dwingeloo HI survey. We cataloged all HVCs with NHI >
1 10^19 cm^-2 and found 252 clouds that form a representative flux limited
sample. The detailed analysis of each individual HVC in this sample revealed a
significant number of HVCs (nearly 20%) having simultaneously a velocity and a
column density gradient. These HVCs have a cometary appearance in the
position-velocity representation and are called henceforward head-tail HVCs (HT
HVCs). The head is the region with the highest column density of the HVC, while
the column density of the tail is in general much lower (by a factor of 2 - 4).
The absolute majority of the cataloged HVCs belongs to the well known HVC
complexes. With exception of the very faint HVC complex L, all HVC complexes
contain HT HVCs. The HT HVCs were analyzed statistically with respect to their
physical parameters like position, velocity (v_LSR,v_GSR), and column density.
We found a linear correlation between the fraction of HVCs having a head-tail
structure and the peak column density of the HVCs. While there is no
correlation between the fraction of HT HVCs and v_LSR, we found a dependence of
the fraction of HT HVCs and v_GSR. There is no significant correlation between
the fraction of HT HVCs and the parameters galactic longitude and latitude. The
HT HVCs may be interpreted as HVCs that are currently interacting with their
ambient medium. In the context of this model the tails represent material that
is stripped off from the HVC core. We discuss the implications of this model
for galactic and extragalactic HVCs.