The results of a 7-epoch interferometric imaging study, at wavelengths in the
near-infrared K-band, of the carbon star IRC +10216 are presented. The use of
non- and partially-redundant aperture masking techniques on the 10-m Keck-I
telescope has allowed us to produce images of the innermost regions of the
circumstellar dust envelope with unprecedented detail. With roughly twice the
resolving power of previous work, the complex asymmetric structures reported
within the central 0.5 arcsec (20 stellar radii) have been imaged at the size
scale of the stellar disk itself (about 50 mas). A prominent dark lane at a
position angle of approximately 120 deg is suggested to be an optically thick
disk or torus of dust which could help to explain IRC +10216's well-known
bipolarity at a position angle of 20 deg. Observations spanning more than a
pulsational cycle (638 days) have revealed significant temporal evolution of
the nebula, including the outward motion of bright knots and clumps.
Registering these displacements against the compact bright core, which we
tentatively identify as marking the location of the star, has allowed us to
determine the apparent angular velocity at a number of points. The magnitudes
of the proper motions were found to be in agreement with current estimates of
the stellar distance and radial velocity. Higher outflow speeds were found for
features with greater separation from the core. This is consistent with
acceleration taking place over the region sampled by the measurements, however
alternate interpretations are also presented. Although a number of changes of
morphology were found, none were clearly interpreted as the condensation of new
dust over the pulsation cycle.