Magnetic Clouds (MCs) are a particular subset of Interplanetary Coronal Mass
Ejections (ICMEs), forming large scale magnetic flux ropes. In this work we
analyze the evolution of a particular MC (observed on March 1998) using {\it in
situ} observations made by two spacecraft approximately aligned with the Sun,
the first one at 1 AU from the Sun and the second one at 5.4 AU. We study the
MC expansion, its consequent decrease of magnetic field intensity and mass
density, and the possible evolution of the so-called global ideal-MHD
nvariants. We describe the magnetic configuration of the MC at both spacecraft
using different models and compute relevant global quantities (magnetic fluxes,
helicity and energy) at both helio-distances. We also track back this structure
to the Sun, in order to find out its solar source. We find that the flux rope
is significantly distorted at 5.4 AU. However, we are able to analyze the data
before the flux rope center is over-passed and compare it with observations at
1 AU. From the observed decay of magnetic field and mass density, we quantify
how anisotropic is the expansion, and the consequent deformation of the flux
rope in favor of a cross section with an aspect ratio at 5.4 AU of $\approx
1.6$ (larger in the direction perpendicular to the radial direction from the
Sun). We quantify the ideal-MHD invariants and magnetic energy at both
locations, and find that invariants are almost conserved, while the magnetic
energy decays as expected with the expansion rate found. The use of MHD
invariants to link structures at the Sun and the interplanetary medium is
supported by the results of this multispacecraft study. We also conclude that
the local dimensionless expansion rate, that is computed from the velocity
profile observed by a single spacecraft, is very accurate for predicting the
evolution of flux ropes in the solar wind.