While collisionally excited lines in HII regions allow one to easily probe
the chemical composition of the interstellar medium in galaxies, the possible
presence of important temperature fluctuations casts some doubt on the derived
abundances. To provide new insights into this question, we have carried out a
detailed study of a giant HII region, H 1013, located in the galaxy M101, for
which many observational data exist and which has been claimed to harbour
temperature fluctuations at a level of t^2 = 0.03-0.06. We have first
complemented the already available optical observational datasets with a
mid-infrared spectrum obtained with the Spitzer Space Telescope. Combined with
optical data, this spectrum provides unprecedented information on the
temperature structure of this giant HII region. A preliminary analysis based on
empirical temperature diagnostics suggests that temperature fluctuations should
be quite weak. We have then performed a detailed modelling using the pyCloudy
package based on the photoionization code Cloudy. We have been able to produce
photoionization models constrained by the observed Hb surface brightness
distribution and by the known properties of the ionizing stellar population
than can account for most of the line ratios within their uncertainties. Since
the observational constraints are both strong and numerous, this argues against
the presence of significant temperature fluctuations in H 1013. The oxygen
abundance of our best model is 12 + log O/H = 8.57, as opposed to the values of
8.73 and 8.93 advocated by Esteban et al. (2009) and Bresolin (2007),
respectively, based on the significant temperature fluctuations they derived.
However, our model is not able to reproduce the intensities of the oxygen
recombination lines . This cannot be attributed to observational uncertainties
and requires an explanation other than temperature fluctuations.