We have mapped at small spatial scales the temperature and the velocity field
in the protocluster associated with IRAS 05345+3157, which contains both
intermediate-/high-mass protostellar candidates and starless condensations, and
is thus an excellent location to investigate the role of massive protostars on
protocluster evolution. We observed the ammonia (1,1) and (2,2) inversion
transitions with the VLA. Ammonia is the best thermometer for dense and cold
gas, and the observed transitions have critical densities able to trace the
kinematics of the intracluster gaseous medium. The ammonia emission is extended
and distributed in two filamentary structures. The starless condensations are
colder than the star-forming cores, but the gas temperature across the whole
protocluster is higher (by a factor of ~1.3-1.5) than that measured typically
in both infrared dark clouds and low-mass protoclusters. The non-thermal
contribution to the observed line broadening is at least a factor of 2 larger
than the expected thermal broadening even in starless condensations, contrary
to the close-to-thermal line widths measured in low-mass quiescent dense cores.
The NH3-to-N2H+ abundance ratio is greatly enhanced (a factor of 10) in the
pre--stellar core candidates, probably due to freeze-out of most molecular
species heavier than He. The more massive and evolved objects likely play a
dominant role in the physical properties and kinematics of the protocluster.
The high level of turbulence and the fact that the measured core masses are
larger than the expected thermal Jeans masses indicate that turbulence likely
was an important factor in the initial fragmentation of the parental clump.