We investigate, using the Gaia-ESO Survey internal Data-Release 2, the
properties of the double sequence of the Milky Way discs (defined chemically as
the high-alpha and low-alpha populations), and discuss their compatibility with
discs defined by other means such as metallicity, kinematics or positions.
  This investigation uses two different approaches: in velocity space for stars
located in the extended Solar neighbourhood, and in chemical space for stars at
different ranges of Galactocentric radii and heights from the plane. The
separation we find in velocity space allows us to investigate, in a novel
manner, the extent in metallicity of each of the two sequences, identifying
them with the two discs, without making any assumption about the shape of their
metallicity distribution functions. Then, using the separation in chemical
space, we characterise the spatial variation of the slopes of the [alpha/Fe] -
[Fe/H] sequences for the thick and thin discs and the way in which the relative
proportions of the two discs change across the Galaxy.
  We find that the thick disc (high-alpha sequence), extends up to [Fe/H]~ +0.2
and the thin disc (low-alpha sequence), at least down to [Fe/H]~ -0.8. Radial
and vertical gradients in alpha-abundances are found for the thin disc, with
mild spatial variations in its [alpha/Fe] - [Fe/H] paths, whereas for the thick
disc we do not detect any such spatial variations.
  The small variations in the spatial [alpha/Fe] - [Fe/H] paths of the thin
disc do not allow us to distinguish between formation models of this structure.
On the other hand, the lack of radial gradients and [alpha/Fe] - [Fe/H]
variations for the thick disc indicate that the mechanism responsible for the
mixing of the metals in the young Galaxy (e.g. radial stellar migration or
turbulent gaseous disc) was more efficient before the (present) thin disc
started forming.