The most important limitation for ground-based submillimetre (submm)
astronomy is the broad-band absorption of the total water vapour in the
atmosphere above an observation site, often expressed as the Precipitable Water
Vapour (PWV). A long-term statistic on the PWV is thus mandatory to
characterize the quality of an existing or potential site for observational
submm-astronomy. In this study we present a three-year statistic (2008-2010) of
the PWV for ground-based telescope sites all around the world and for
stratospheric altitudes relevant for SOFIA (Stratospheric Observatory for
Far-infrared astronomy). The submm-transmission is calculated for typical PWVs
using an atmospheric model. We present the absolute PWV values for each site
sorted by year and time percentage. The PWV corresponding to the first decile
(10%) and the quartiles (25%, 50%, 75%) are calculated and transmission curves
between 150 {\mu}m and 3 mm for these values are shown. The Antarctic and
South-American sites present very good conditions for submillimetre astronomy.
The 350 {\mu}m and 450 {\mu}m atmospheric windows are open all year long
whereas the 200 {\mu}m atmospheric window opens reasonably for 25 % of the time
in Antarctica and the extremely high-altitude sites in Chile. Potential
interesting new facilities are Macon in Argentinia and Summit in Greenland that
show similar conditions as for example Mauna Kea (Hawaii). For SOFIA, we
present in more detail transmission curves for different altitudes (11 to 14
km), PWV values, and higher frequencies (up to 5 THz). Though the atmosphere at
these altitude is generally very transparent, the absorption at very high
frequencies becomes more important, partly caused by minor species. In
conclusion, the method presented in this paper could identify sites on Earth
with a great potential for submillimetre astronomy, and guide future site
testing campaigns in situ.