Aims. We report the first detailed X-ray study of the supernova remnant (SNR)
G304.6+0.1, achieved with the XMM-Newton mission. Methods. The powerful imaging
capability of XMM-Newton was used to study the X-ray characteristics of the
remnant at different energy ranges. The X-ray morphology and spectral
properties were analyzed. In addittion, radio and mid-infrared data obtained
with the Molonglo Observatory Synthesis Telescope and the Spitzer Space
Telescope were used to study the association with the detected X-ray emission
and to understand the structure of the SNR at differents wavelengths. Results.
The SNR shows an extended and arc-like internal structure in the X-ray band
with out a compact point-like source inside the remnant. We find a high column
density of NH in the range 2.5-3.5x1022 cm-2, which supports a relatively
distant location (d $\geq$ 9.7 kpc). The X-ray spectrum exhibits at least three
emission lines, indicating that the X-ray emission has a thin thermal plasma
origin, although a non-thermal contribution cannot be discarded. The spectra of
three different regions (north, center and south) are well represented by a
combination of a non-equilibrium ionization (PSHOCK) and a power-law (PL)
model. The mid-infrared observations show a bright filamentary structure along
the north-south direction coincident with the NW radio shell. This suggests
that Kes 17 is propagating in a non-uniform environment with high density and
that the shock front is interacting with several adjacent massive molecular
clouds. The good correspondence of radio and mid-infrared emissions suggests
that the filamentary features are caused by shock compression. The X-ray
characteristics and well-known radio parameters indicate that G304.6+0.1 is a
middle-aged SNR (2.8-6.4)x104 yr old and a new member of the recently proposed
group of mixed-morphology SNRs.