Block matching (BM) motion estimation plays a very important role in video
coding. In a BM approach, image frames in a video sequence are divided into
blocks. For each block in the current frame, the best matching block is
identified inside a region of the previous frame, aiming to minimize the sum of
absolute differences (SAD). Unfortunately, the SAD evaluation is
computationally expensive and represents the most consuming operation in the BM
process. Therefore, BM motion estimation can be approached as an optimization
problem, where the goal is to find the best matching block within a search
space. The simplest available BM method is the full search algorithm (FSA)
which finds the most accurate motion vector through an exhaustive computation
of SAD values for all elements of the search window. Recently, several fast BM
algorithms have been proposed to reduce the number of SAD operations by
calculating only a fixed subset of search locations at the price of poor
accuracy. In this paper, a new algorithm based on Artificial Bee Colony (ABC)
optimization is proposed to reduce the number of search locations in the BM
process. In our algorithm, the computation of search locations is drastically
reduced by considering a fitness calculation strategy which indicates when it
is feasible to calculate or only estimate new search locations. Since the
proposed algorithm does not consider any fixed search pattern or any other
movement assumption as most of other BM approaches do, a high probability for
finding the true minimum (accurate motion vector) is expected. Conducted
simulations show that the proposed method achieves the best balance over other
fast BM algorithms, in terms of both estimation accuracy and computational
cost.