Flights of Goddard Space Flight Center's Extreme-Ultraviolet Normal-Incidence
Spectrograph (EUNIS) sounding rocket in 2006 and 2007 provided updated
radiometric calibrations for SOHO/CDS and Hinode/EIS. EUNIS carried two
independent imaging spectrographs covering wavebands of 300-370 A in first
order and 170-205 A in second order. After each flight, end-to-end radiometric
calibrations of the rocket payload were carried out in the same facility used
for pre-launch calibrations of CDS and EIS. During the 2007 flight, EUNIS, SOHO
CDS and Hinode EIS observed the same solar locations, allowing the EUNIS
calibrations to be directly applied to both CDS and EIS. The measured CDS NIS 1
line intensities calibrated with the standard (version 4) responsivities with
the standard long-term corrections are found to be too low by a factor of 1.5
due to the decrease in responsivity. The EIS calibration update is performed in
two ways. One is using the direct calibration transfer of the calibrated
EUNIS-07 short wavelength (SW) channel. The other is using the insensitive line
pairs, in which one member was observed by EUNIS-07 long wavelength (LW)
channel and the other by EIS in either LW or SW waveband. Measurements from
both methods are in good agreement, and confirm (within the measurement
uncertainties) the EIS responsivity measured directly before the instrument's
launch. The measurements also suggest that the EIS responsivity decreased by a
factor of about 1.2 after the first year of operation. The shape of the EIS SW
response curve obtained by EUNIS-07 is consistent with the one measured in
laboratory prior to launch. The absolute value of the quiet-Sun He II 304 A
intensity measured by EUNIS-07 is consistent with the radiance measured by CDS
NIS in quiet regions near the disk center and the solar minimum irradiance
obtained by CDS NIS and SDO/EVE recently.