Extremely Compact Stars (ECS) contain trapped null geodesics. When such
objects enter the evolution period admitting geodetical motion of neutrinos,
certain part of neutrinos produced in their interior will be trapped
influencing their neutrino luminosity and thermal evolution. We study neutrino
trapping in the braneworld ECS, assuming uniform distribution of neutrino
emissivity and massless neutrinos. We give the efficiency of the neutrino
trapping effects in the framework of the simple model of the internal spacetime
with uniform distribution of energy density, and external spacetime described
by the Reissner-Nordstr\"om geometry characterized by the braneworld "tidal"
parameter $b$. For $b < 0$ the external spacetime is of the black-hole type,
while for $b > 0$ the external spacetime can be of both black-hole and
naked-singularity type. Then the ECS surface radius $R$ can be located also
above the unstable (outer) photon circular orbit. Such basically new types of
the spacetimes strongly alter the trapping phenomena as compared to the
standard case of $b = 0$. It is shown that the neutrino trapping effects are
slightly lowered by the presence of physically more plausible case of $b < 0$,
as compared to the standard internal Schwarzschild spacetime, while they can be
magnified by positive tidal charges if $b < 1$ and lowered for $b > 1$.
However, potential astrophysical relevance of the trapping phenomena is
strongly enhanced for negative tidal charges enabling a significant enlargement
of the ECS surface radius to values coherent with recent observations.