Resonance parameters (pole masses and residues) associated with the excited
states of hyperons, Lambda^* and Sigma^*, are extracted within a dynamical
coupled-channels model developed recently by us [Phys. Rev. C 90, 065204
(2014)] through a comprehensive partial-wave analysis of the K^- p --> barK N,
pi Sigma, pi Lambda, eta Lambda, K Xi data up to invariant mass W = 2.1 GeV. We
confirm the existence of resonances corresponding to most, if not all, of the
four-star resonances rated by the Particle Data Group. We also find several new
resonances, and in particular propose a possible existence of a new narrow
J^P=3/2^+ Lambda resonance that couples strongly to the eta Lambda channel. The
J^P=1/2^- Lambda resonances located below the barK N threshold are also
discussed. Comparing our extracted pole masses with the ones from a recent
analysis by the Kent State University group, some significant differences in
the extracted resonance parameters are found, suggesting the need of more
extensive and accurate data of K^- p reactions including polarization
observables to eliminate such an analysis dependence of the resonance
parameters. In addition, the determined large branching ratios of the decays of
high-mass resonances to the pi Sigma^* and barK^* N channels also suggest the
importance of the data of 2 --> 3 reactions such as K^- p --> pi pi Lambda and
K^- p --> pi barK N. Experiments on measuring cross sections and polarization
observables of these fundamental reactions are highly desirable at hadron beam
facilities such as J-PARC for establishing the Lambda^* and Sigma^* spectrum.