According to standard models supernovae produce radioactive $^{44}$Ti, which
should be visible in gamma-rays following decay to $^{44}$Ca for a few
centuries. $^{44}Ti production is believed to be the source of cosmic
$^{44}$Ca, whose abundance is well established. Yet, gamma-ray telescopes have
not seen the expected young remnants of core collapse events. The $^{44}$Ti
mean life of $\tau \simeq$ 89 y and the Galactic supernova rate of $\simeq$
3/100 y imply $\simeq$ several detectable $^{44}Ti gamma-ray sources, but only
one is clearly seen, the 340-year-old Cas A SNR. Furthermore, supernovae which
produce much $^{44}Ti are expected to occur primarily in the inner part of the
Galaxy, where young massive stars are most abundant. Because the Galaxy is
transparent to gamma-rays, this should be the dominant location of expected
gamma-ray sources. Yet the Cas A SNR as the only one source is located far from
the inner Galaxy (at longitude 112 degree). We evaluate the surprising absence
of detectable supernovae from the past three centuries. We discuss whether our
understanding of SN explosions, their $^{44}Ti yields, their spatial
distributions, and statistical arguments can be stretched so that this apparent
disagreement may be accommodated within reasonable expectations, or if we have
to revise some or all of the above aspects to bring expectations in agreement
with the observations. We conclude that either core collapse supernovae have
been improbably rare in the Galaxy during the past few centuries, or
$^{44}Ti-producing supernovae are atypical supernovae. We also present a new
argument based on $^{44}$Ca/$^{40}$Ca ratios in mainstream SiC stardust grains
that may cast doubt on massive-He-cap Type I supernovae as the source of most
galactic $^{44}$Ca.