We infer the 3D magnetic structure of a transient horizontal magnetic field
(THMF) during its evolution through the photosphere using SIRGAUS inversion
code. The SIRGAUS code is a modified version of SIR (Stokes Inversion based on
Response function), and allows for retrieval of information on the magnetic and
thermodynamic parameters of the flux tube embedded in the atmosphere from the
observed Stokes profiles. Spectro-polarimetric observations of the quiet Sun at
the disk center were performed with the Solar Optical Telescope (SOT) on board
Hinode with Fe I 630.2 nm lines. Using repetitive scans with a cadence of 130
s, we first detect the horizontal field that appears inside a granule, near its
edge. On the second scan, vertical fields with positive and negative polarities
appear at both ends of the horizontal field. Then, the horizontal field
disappears leaving the bipolar vertical magnetic fields. The results from the
inversion of the Stokes spectra clearly point to the existence of a flux tube
with magnetic field strength of $\sim400$ G rising through the line forming
layer of the Fe I 630.2 nm lines. The flux tube is located at around
$\log\tau_{500} \sim0$ at $\Delta t$=0 s and around $\log\tau_{500} \sim-1.7$
at $\Delta t$=130 s. At $\Delta t$=260 s the horizontal part is already above
the line forming region of the analyzed lines. The observed Doppler velocity is
maximally 3 km s$^{-1}$, consistent with the upward motion of the structure as
retrieved from the SIRGAUS code. The vertical size of the tube is smaller than
the thickness of the line forming layer. The THMF has a clear
$\Omega$-shaped-loop structure with the apex located near the edge of a
granular cell. The magnetic flux carried by this THMF is estimated to be
$3.1\times10^{17}$ Mx.