In the previous paper, we construct the angular distribution functions for
muon and electron as well as their relative fluctuation functions to find
suitable discrimination procedure between muon and electron in Superkamiokande
experiment. In the present paper, we are able to discriminate muons from
electrons in Fully Contained Events with a probability of error of less than
several %. At the same time, our geometrical reconstruction procedure,
considering only the ring-like structure of the Cherenkov image, gives an
unsatisfactory resolution for 1GeV electron and muon, with a mean vertex
position error, delta r, of 5-10 m and a mean directional error, delta theta,
of about 6-20 degrees. In contrast, a geometrical reconstruction procedure
utilizing the full image and using a detailed approximation of the event
angular distribution works much better: for a 1 GeV electron, delta r is about
2 m and delta theta is about 3 degrees; for a 1GeV muon, delta r is about 3 m
and delta theta is about 5 degrees. At 5 GeV, the corresponding values are
about 1.4 m and about 2 degree for electron and are about 2.9m and about 4.3
degrees for muon. The numerical values depend on a single PMT contribution
threshold. The values quoted above are the minima with respect to this
threshold.
  Even the methodologically correct approach we have adopted, based on detailed
simulations using closer approximations than those adopted in the SK analysis,
cannot reproduce the accuracies for particle discrimination, momentum
resolution, interaction vertex location, and angular resolution obtained by the
SK simulations, suggesting the assumptions in these may be inadequate.