We present a numerical code for calculating the local gravitational
self-force acting on a pointlike particle in a generic (bound) geodesic orbit
around a Schwarzschild black hole. The calculation is carried out in the Lorenz
gauge: For a given geodesic orbit, we decompose the Lorenz-gauge metric
perturbation equations (sourced by the delta-function particle) into tensorial
harmonics, and solve for each harmonic using numerical evolution in the time
domain (in 1+1 dimensions). The physical self-force along the orbit is then
obtained via mode-sum regularization. The total self-force contains a
dissipative piece as well as a conservative piece, and we describe a simple
method for disentangling these two pieces in a time-domain framework. The
dissipative component is responsible for the loss of orbital energy and angular
momentum through gravitational radiation; as a test of our code we demonstrate
that the work done by the dissipative component of the computed force is
precisely balanced by the asymptotic fluxes of energy and angular momentum,
which we extract independently from the wave-zone numerical solutions. The
conservative piece of the self force does not affect the time-averaged rate of
energy and angular-momentum loss, but it influences the evolution of the
orbital phases; this piece is calculated here for the first time in eccentric
strong-field orbits. As a first concrete application of our code we recently
reported the value of the shift in the location and frequency of the innermost
stable circular orbit due to the conservative self-force [Phys. Rev. Lett.\
{\bf 102}, 191101 (2009)]. Here we provide full details of this analysis, and
discuss future applications.