We present the optical and X-ray properties of 68 galaxy clusters selected
via the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect at 148 GHz by the Atacama Cosmology Telescope
(ACT). Our sample, from an area of 504 square degrees centered on the celestial
equator, is divided into two regions. The main region uses 270 square degrees
of the ACT survey that overlaps with the co-added ugriz imaging from the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) over Stripe 82 plus additional near-infrared pointed
observations with the Apache Point Observatory 3.5-meter telescope. We confirm
a total of 49 clusters to z~1.3, of which 22 (all at z>0.55) are new
discoveries. For the second region the regular-depth SDSS imaging allows us to
confirm 19 more clusters up to z~0.7, of which 10 systems are new. We present
the optical richness, photometric redshifts, and separation between the SZ
position and the brightest cluster galaxy (BCG). We find no significant offset
between the cluster SZ centroid and BCG location and a weak correlation between
optical richness and SZ-derived mass. We also present X-ray fluxes and
luminosities from the ROSAT All Sky Survey which confirm that this is a massive
sample. One of the newly discovered clusters, ACT-CL J0044.4+0113 at z=1.1
(photometric), has an integrated XMM-Newton X-ray temperature of kT_x=7.9+/-1.0
keV and combined mass of M_200a=8.2(-2.5,+3.3)x10^14 M_sun/h70 placing it among
the most massive and X-ray-hot clusters known at redshifts beyond z=1. We also
highlight the optically-rich cluster ACT-CL J2327.4-0204 (RCS2 2327) at z=0.705
(spectroscopic) as the most significant detection of the whole equatorial
sample with a Chandra-derived mass of M_200a=1.9(-0.4,+0.6)x10^15 M_sun/h70,
comparable to some of the most massive known clusters like "El Gordo" and the
Bullet Cluster.