Most available antimicrobial peptides (AMP) prediction methods use common
approach for different classes of AMP. Contrary to available approaches, we
suggest, that a strategy of prediction should be based on the fact, that there
are several kinds of AMP which are vary in mechanisms of action, structure,
mode of interaction with membrane etc. According to our suggestion for each
kind of AMP a particular approach has to be developed in order to get high
efficacy. Consequently in this paper a particular but the biggest class of AMP
- linear cationic antimicrobial peptides (LCAP) - has been considered and a
newly developed simple method of LCAP prediction described. The aim of this
study is the development of a simple method of discrimination of AMP from
non-AMP, the efficiency of which will be determined by efficiencies of selected
descriptors only and comparison the results of the discrimination procedure
with the results obtained by more complicated discriminative methods. As
descriptors the physicochemical characteristics responsible for capability of
the peptide to interact with an anionic membrane were considered. The following
characteristics such as hydrophobicity, amphiphaticity, location of the peptide
in relation to membrane, charge, propensity to disordered structure were
studied. On the basis of these characteristics a new simple algorithm of
prediction is developed and evaluation of efficacies of the characteristics as
descriptors performed. The results show that three descriptors: hydrophobic
moment, charge and location of the peptide along the membranes can be used as
discriminators of LCAPs. For the training set our method gives the same level
of accuracy as more complicated machine learning approaches offered as CAMP
database service tools. For the test set sensitivity obtained by our method
gives even higher value than the one obtained by CAMP prediction tools.