Based on the analysis of data from the numerous dedicated experiments on
plasma disruptions in the TEXTOR tokamak the mechanisms of the formation of
runaway electron beams and their losses are proposed. The plasma disruption is
caused by strong stochastic magnetic field formed due to nonlinearly excited
low-mode number magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) modes. It is hypothesized that the
runaway electron beam is formed in the central plasma region confined by an
intact magnetic surface due to the acceleration of electrons by the inductive
toroidal electric field. In the case of plasmas with the safety factor $q(0)<1$
the most stable runaway electron beams are formed by the intact magnetic
surface located between the magnetic surface $q=1$ and the closest low--order
rational surface $q=m/n>1$ ($q=5/4$, $q=4/3$, ...). The thermal quench time the
current quench time are estimated. The runaway electron beam current is modeled
as a sum of toroidally symmetric part and a small amplitude helical current
with a predominant $m/n=1/1$ component. The runaway electrons are lost due to
two effects: ($i$) by outward drift of electrons in a toroidal electric field
until they touch wall and ($ii$) by the formation of stochastic layer of
runaway electrons at the beam edge. Such a stochastic layer for high--energy
runaway electrons is formed in the presence of the $m/n=1/1$ MHD mode. It has a
mixed topological structure with a stochastic region open to wall. The effect
of external resonant magnetic perturbations on runaway electron loss is
discussed. A possible cause of the sudden MHD signals accompanied by runaway
electron bursts is explained by the redistribution of runaway current during
the resonant interaction of high--energetic electron orbits with the $m/n=1/1$
MHD mode.