This paper presents the first results from a new citizen science project:
Galaxy Zoo Supernovae. This proof of concept project uses members of the public
to identify supernova candidates from the latest generation of wide-field
imaging transient surveys. We describe the Galaxy Zoo Supernovae operations and
scoring model, and demonstrate the effectiveness of this novel method using
imaging data and transients from the Palomar Transient Factory (PTF). We
examine the results collected over the period April-July 2010, during which
nearly 14,000 supernova candidates from PTF were classified by more than 2,500
individuals within a few hours of data collection. We compare the transients
selected by the citizen scientists to those identified by experienced PTF
scanners, and find the agreement to be remarkable - Galaxy Zoo Supernovae
performs comparably to the PTF scanners, and identified as transients 93% of
the ~130 spectroscopically confirmed SNe that PTF located during the trial
period (with no false positive identifications). Further analysis shows that
only a small fraction of the lowest signal-to-noise SN detections (r > 19.5)
are given low scores: Galaxy Zoo Supernovae correctly identifies all SNe with >
8{\sigma} detections in the PTF imaging data. The Galaxy Zoo Supernovae project
has direct applicability to future transient searches such as the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope, by both rapidly identifying candidate transient
events, and via the training and improvement of existing machine classifier
algorithms.