The affordable, robust, compact (ARC) reactor conceptual design study aims to
reduce the size, cost, and complexity of a combined fusion nuclear science
facility (FNSF) and demonstration fusion Pilot power plant. ARC is a 200-250
MWe tokamak reactor with a major radius of 3.3 m, a minor radius of 1.1 m, and
an on-axis magnetic field of 9.2 T. ARC has rare earth barium copper oxide
(REBCO) superconducting toroidal field coils, which have joints to enable
disassembly. This allows the vacuum vessel to be replaced quickly, mitigating
first wall survivability concerns, and permits a single device to test many
vacuum vessel designs and divertor materials. The design point has a plasma
fusion gain of Q_p~13.6, yet is fully non-inductive, with a modest bootstrap
fraction of only ~63%. Thus ARC offers a high power gain with relatively large
external control of the current profile. This highly attractive combination is
enabled by the ~23 T peak field on coil with newly available REBCO
superconductor technology. External current drive is provided by two innovative
inboard RF launchers using 25 MW of lower hybrid and 13.6 MW of ion cyclotron
fast wave power. The resulting efficient current drive provides a robust,
steady state core plasma far from disruptive limits. ARC uses an all-liquid
blanket, consisting of low pressure, slowly flowing fluorine lithium beryllium
(FLiBe) molten salt. The liquid blanket is low-risk technology and provides
effective neutron moderation and shielding, excellent heat removal, and a
tritium breeding ratio >= 1.1. The large temperature range over which FLiBe is
liquid permits blanket operation at 900 K with single phase fluid cooling and a
high-efficiency Brayton cycle, allowing for net electricity generation when
operating ARC as a Pilot power plant.