We have made a multiwavelength study of the overlapping error boxes of the
unidentified gamma-ray sources TeV J2032+4130 and 3EG J2033+4118 in the
direction of the Cygnus OB2 association (d = 1.7 kpc) in order to search for a
point-source counterpart of the first unidentified TeV source. Optical
identifications and spectroscopic classifications for the brighter X-ray
sources in ROSAT PSPC and Chandra ACIS images are obtained, without finding a
compelling counterpart. The classified X-ray sources are a mix of early and
late-type stars, with one exception. The brightest source in the Chandra
observation is a new, hard absorbed source that is both transient and rapidly
variable. It lies 7' from the centroid of the TeV emission, which places it
outside of the claimed 2 sigma location (r = 4.8'). A possible eclipse or "dip"
transition is seen in its light curve. With a peak 1-10 keV luminosity of 7 x
10^(32) (d/1.7 kpc})^2 ergs s^(-1), this source could be a quiescent low-mass
X-ray binary that lies beyond the Cyg OB2 association. A coincident, reddened
optical object of R = 20.4, J = 15.4, H = 14.2, and K = 13.4 is observed, but
not yet classified due to the lack of obvious emission or absorption features
in its spectrum. Alternatively, this Chandra} and optical source might be a
considered a candidate for a proton blazar, a long hypothesized type of
radio-weak gamma-ray source. More detailed observations will be needed to
determine the nature of this variable X-ray source, and to assess the
possibility of its connection with TeV J2032+4130.