We study the clustering of galaxies, as a function of their colour, from Data
Release Ten (DR10) of the SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey. We
select 122,967 galaxies with 0.43 < z < 0.7 into a "Blue" sample and 131,969
into a "Red" sample based on k+e corrected (to z=0.55) r-i colours and i band
magnitudes. The samples are chosen to each contain more than 100,000 galaxies,
have similar redshift distributions, and maximize the difference in clustering
amplitude. The Red sample has a 40% larger bias than the Blue (b_Red/b_Blue =
1.39+-0.04), implying the Red galaxies occupy dark matter halos with an average
mass that is 0.5 log Mo greater. Spherically averaged measurements of the
correlation function, \xi 0, and the power spectrum are used to locate the
position of the baryon acoustic oscillation (BAO) feature of both samples.
Using \xi 0, we obtain distance scales, relative to our reference LCDM
cosmology, of 1.010+-0.027 for the Red sample and 1.005+-0.031 for the Blue.
After applying reconstruction, these measurements improve to 1.013+/-0.020 for
the Red sample and 1.008+-0.026 for the Blue. For each sample, measurements of
\xi 0 and the second multipole moment, \xi 2, of the anisotropic correlation
function are used to determine the rate of structure growth, parameterized by
f\sigma 8. We find f\sigma 8,Red = 0.511+-0.083, f\sigma 8,Blue =
0.509+/-0.085, and f\sigma 8,Cross = 0.423+-0.061 (from the cross-correlation
between the Red and Blue samples). We use the covariance between the bias and
growth measurements obtained from each sample and their cross-correlation to
produce an optimally-combined measurement of f\sigma 8,comb = 0.443+-0.055. In
no instance do we detect significant differences in distance scale or structure
growth measurements obtained from the Blue and Red samples.