Although GPS has been considered a ubiquitous outdoor localization
technology, we are still far from a similar technology for indoor environments.
While a number of technologies have been proposed for indoor localization, they
are isolated efforts that are way from a true ubiquitous localization system. A
ubiquitous indoor positioning system is envisioned to be deployed on a large
scale worldwide, with minimum overhead, to work with heterogeneous devices, and
to allow users to roam seamlessly from indoor to outdoor environments. Such a
system will enable a wide set of applications including worldwide seamless
direction finding between indoor locations, enhancing first responders' safety
by providing anywhere localization and floor plans, and providing a richer
environment for location-aware social networking applications.
  We describe an architecture for the ubiquitous indoor positioning system
(IPS) and the challenges that have to be addressed to materialize it. We then
focus on the feasibility of automating the construction of a worldwide indoor
floor plan and fingerprint database which, as we believe, is one of the main
challenges that limit the existence of a ubiquitous IPS system. Our proof of
concept uses a crowd-sourcing approach that leverages the embedded sensors in
today's cell phones as a worldwide distributed floor plan generation tool. This
includes constructing the floor plans and determining the areas of interest
(corridors, offices, meeting rooms, elevators, etc). The cloud computing
concepts are also adopted for the processing and storage of the huge amount of
data generated and requested by the system's users. Our results show the
ability of the system to construct an accurate floor plan and identify the
areas of interest with more than 90% accuracy. We also identify different
research directions for addressing the challenges of realizing a true
ubiquitous IPS system.