Calibration is one of the long-standing problems in optical interferometric
measurements, particularly with long baselines which demand stars with angular
sizes on the milliarcsecond scale and no detectable companions. While systems
of calibrators have been generally established for the near-infrared in the
bright source regime (K$\la 3$\,mag), modern large interferometers are
sensitive to significantly fainter magnitudes. We aim at providing a list of
sources found unresolved from direct observations with high angular resolution
and dynamic range, which can be used to choose interferometric calibrators. To
this purpose, we have used a large number of lunar occultations recorded with
the ISAAC instrument at the VLT to select sources found to be unresolved and
without close companions. An algorithm has been used to determine the limiting
angular resolution achieved for each source, taking into account a noise model
built from occulted and unocculted portions of the light curves. We have
obtained upper limits on the angular sizes of 556 sources, with magnitudes
ranging from K$_{\rm s} \approx$4 to 10, with a median of 7.2\,mag. The upper
limits on possible undetected companions (within $\approx 0\farcs5$) range from
K$_{\rm s} \approx$8 to 13, with a median of 11.5\,mag. One-third of the
sources have angular sizes $\le 1$, and two-thirds $\le 2$ milliarcseconds.
This list of unresolved sources matches well the capabilities of current large
interferometric facilities. We also provide available cross-identifications,
magnitudes, spectral types, and other auxiliary information. A fraction of the
sources are found to be potentially variable. The list covers parts of the
Galactic Bulge and in particular the vicinity of the Galactic Center, where
extinction is very significant and traditional lists of calibrators are often
insufficient.