Stored antiproton beams at the international FAIR facility will provide
unique opportunities to study hyperons as well as antihyperons in nuclear
systems. Precise $\gamma$-spectroscopy of multi-strange hypernuclei will serve
as a laboratory for the hyperon-hyperon interaction. Exclusive
hadron-antihadron pair production close to threshold can measure the potential
of a antihadron relative to that of the coincident hadrons.
  In the present work we explore the production of excited states in double
hypernuclei following the micro-canonical break-up of an initially excited
double hypernucleus which is created by the absorption and conversion of a
stopped $\Xi^{-}$ hyperon. Generally the formation of excited hypernuclear
states relative to ground states dominates in this model. For different initial
target nuclei which absorb the $\Xi^-$, different double hypernuclei nuclei
dominate. We also compare the model predictions with the correlated pion
spectra measured by the E906 collaboration.
  In antiproton nucleus reactions the event-by-event transverse momentum
correlations of hadron-antihadron pairs produced close to threshold contain
information on the difference between the nuclear potential of the hadron and
the associated antihadron. For produced D-meson pairs at 6.7\gevc1 the
sensitivity of the transverse momenta correlation will probably be to small to
deduce differences between the potentials for D$^+$ and D$^-$ mesons. However,
for {\PgX\PagX} pairs produced at 2.9\gevc1 the asymmetry is sufficiently
sensitive to predicted differences between the {\PgX} and {\PagX} potentials
even if the momentum and density dependence of the the potential are taken into
account.