A more objective method for measuring the energy needs of businesses, System
Energy Assessment (SEA), identifies the natural boundaries of businesses as
self-managing net-energy systems, of controlled and self-managing parts. The
method is demonstrated using a model Wind Farm case study, and applied to
defining a true physical measure of its energy productivity for society
(EROI-S), the global ratio of energy produced to energy cost. The traceable
needs of business technology are combined with assignable energy needs for all
other operating services. That serves to correct a large natural gap in energy
use information. Current methods count traceable energy receipts for technology
use. Self-managing services employed by businesses outsource their own energy
needs to operate, and leave no records to trace. Those uncounted energy demands
are often 80% of the total embodied energy of business end products. The scale
of this "dark energy" was discovered from differing global accounts, and
corrected so the average energy cost per dollar for businesses would equal the
world average energy use per dollar of GDP. Presently the energy needs of paid
services that outsource their own energy needs are counted for lack of
information to be "0". Our default assumption is to treat them as "average".
The result is to assign total energy use and impacts to the demand for energy
services, for a "Scope 4" GHG assessment level. Counting only the energy uses
of technology understates the energy needs of business services, as if services
were more energy efficient than technology. The result confirms a similar
finding by Hall et. al. in 1981 [9]. We use exhaustive search for what a
business needs to operate as a whole, locating a natural physical boundary for
its working parts, to define businesses as physical rather than statistical
subjects of science. :measurement, natural systems