The construction of the James Webb Space Telescope has brought attention to
infrared astronomy and cosmology. The potential information about our universe
to be gained by this mission and future infrared telescopes is staggering, but
infrared observation faces many obstacles. These telescopes face large amounts
of noise by many phenomena, from emission off of the mirrors to the cosmic
infrared background. Infrared telescopes need to be designed in such a way that
noise is minimized to achieve sufficient signal to noise ratio on high redshift
objects. We will investigate current and planned space and ground based
telescopes, model the noise they encounter, and discover their limitations. The
ultimate of our investigation is to compare the sensitivity of these missions
in the near and mid IR and to propose new missions. Our investigation is broken
down into four major sections: current missions, noise, signal, and proposed
missions. In the proposed missions section we investigate historical and
current infrared telescopes with attention given to their location and
properties. The noise section discusses the noise that an infrared telescope
will encounter and set the background limit. The signal section will look at
the spectral energy distributions (SED) of a few significant objects in our
universe. We will calculate the intensity of the objects at various points on
Earth and in orbit. In the final section we use our findings in the signal and
noise sections to model integration times (observation time) for a variety of
missions to achieve a given signal to noise ratio (SNR).