We present Washington system C,T_1 CMDs of 13 star clusters and their
surrounding fields which lie in the outer parts of the LMC disk. Ages are
determined by means of the magnitude difference between the giant branch clump
and the turnoff, while metallicities are derived from the location of the giant
and subgiant branches as compared to fiducial star clusters. We find that in
most cases the stellar population of each star cluster is quite similar to that
of the field where it is embedded. Three particular fields present remarkable
properties: (i) The so far unique cluster ESO121-SC03 at ~9 Gyr has a
surrounding field which shares the same properties. (ii) The field surrounding
the far eastern intermediate age cluster OHSC37 is noteworthy in the sense that
we do not detect any evidence of LMC stars. (iii) The fields of SL388 and SL509
present CMDs with a secondary clump ~0.45 mag fainter than the dominant
intermediate age clump, suggesting a stellar population component located
behind the LMC disk at a distance comparable to that of the SMC. The mean
metallicity derived for the intermediate age outer disk clusters is
<[Fe/H]>=-0.7 and for their surrounding fields <[Fe/H]>=-0.6. These values are
significantly lower than found by Olszewski et al. (1991, AJ, 101, 515) for a
sample of clusters of similar age, but are in good agreement with several
recent studies. A few clusters stand out in the age--metallicity relation in
the sense that they are intermediate age clusters at relatively low metallicity
([Fe/H]~-1).