There is now a large consensus that the current epoch of the Cosmic Star
Formation History (CSFH) is dominated by low mass galaxies while the most
active phase at 1<z<2 is dominated by more massive galaxies, which undergo a
faster evolution. Massive galaxies tend to inhabit very massive halos such as
galaxy groups and clusters. We aim to understand whether the observed "galaxy
downsizing" could be interpreted as a "halo downsizing", whereas the most
massive halos, and their galaxy populations, evolve more rapidly than the halos
of lower mass. Thus, we study the contribution to the CSFH of galaxies
inhabiting group-sized halos. This is done through the study of the evolution
of the Infra-Red (IR) luminosity function of group galaxies from redshift 0 to
~1.6. We use a sample of 39 X-ray selected groups in the Extended Chandra Deep
Field South (ECDFS), the Chandra Deep Field North (CDFN), and the COSMOS field,
where the deepest available mid- and far-IR surveys have been conducted with
Spitzer MIPS and Hersche PACS. Groups at low redshift lack the brightest,
rarest, and most star forming IR-emitting galaxies observed in the field. Their
IR-emitting galaxies contribute <10% of the comoving volume density of the
whole IR galaxy population in the local Universe. At redshift >~1, the most
IR-luminous galaxies (LIRGs and ULIRGs) are preferentially located in groups,
and this is consistent with a reversal of the star-formation rate vs .density
anti-correlation observed in the nearby Universe. At these redshifts, group
galaxies contribute 60-80% of the CSFH, i.e. much more than at lower redshifts.
Below z~1, the comoving number and SFR densities of IR-emitting galaxies in
groups decline significantly faster than those of all IR-emitting galaxies. Our
results are consistent with a "halo downsizing" scenario and highlight the
significant role of "environment" quenching in shaping the CSFH.