In `A Bayesian Approach to Locating the Red Giant Branch Tip Magnitude (PART
I),' a new technique was introduced for obtaining distances using the TRGB
standard candle. Here we describe a useful complement to the technique with the
potential to further reduce the uncertainty in our distance measurements by
incorporating a matched-filter weighting scheme into the model likelihood
calculations. In this scheme, stars are weighted according to their probability
of being true object members. We then re-test our modified algorithm using
random-realization artificial data to verify the validity of the generated
posterior probability distributions (PPDs) and proceed to apply the algorithm
to the satellite system of M31, culminating in a 3D view of the system. Further
to the distributions thus obtained, we apply a satellite-specific prior on the
satellite distances to weight the resulting distance posterior distributions,
based on the halo density profile. Thus in a single publication, using a single
method, a comprehensive coverage of the distances to the companion galaxies of
M31 is presented, encompassing the dwarf spheroidals Andromedas I - III, V,
IX-XXVII and XXX along with NGC147, NGC 185, M33 and M31 itself. Of these, the
distances to Andromeda XXIV - XXVII and Andromeda XXX have never before been
derived using the TRGB. Object distances are determined from high-resolution
tip magnitude posterior distributions generated using the Markov Chain Monte
Carlo (MCMC) technique and associated sampling of these distributions to take
into account uncertainties in foreground extinction and the absolute magnitude
of the TRGB as well as photometric errors. The distance PPDs obtained for each
object both with, and without the aforementioned prior are made available to
the reader in tabular form...