The complex phenomenology of shot quenched YBa2Cu3O6.5 with Tc=100K and 200K
levels is compared with laser pulsed analogs with an eye on explaining the
presumed Tc=552K of the latter. Shot quenching can produce metastable states
with pronounced increases in plane metric and cell volume, accompanied by a
rough doubling of Tc to a 100K level of an orthorhombic with 3-fold O
coordinated chain Cu (O3 type). These states decay over a non-superconducting
transition range to the conventional Tc=50K level of O24. We consider the plane
expanded laser pulsed materials to contain aspects of O42 plane n-doped
counterparts of the O3 n-doped version of shot quench preparations. In
addition, we assume that highly charged p-doped chains of 4-fold O coordination
form hole pairs at trijugate position, allowing close approach of the apical O
to the electron-doped planes. They are now capable of participating in the
bonding with the plane pairs at corresponding 3a0/2 location. The overall pair
number is therefore multiplied, and the coupling strengthened, by limited 3-D
effects within the Plane-Chain-Plane sandwich. The latter can be seen as an
extended chemical bonding system that has the potential to equilibrate
contractive and expansive pairs and so obviate the need for distinction of
doping type as it may exchange it dynamically. It is argued that indications
for a Tc=200K level on shot quenching has a related origin and represents one
in series of predicted Tc levels based on bond order principles. Predictions
are made where similar effects can be expected in other compound classes.