We introduce a novel method to screen the promoters of a set of genes with
shared biological function, against a precompiled library of motifs, and find
those motifs which are statistically over-represented in the gene set. The gene
sets were obtained from the functional Gene Ontology (GO) classification; for
each set and motif we optimized the sequence similarity score threshold,
independently for every location window (measured with respect to the TSS),
taking into account the location dependent nucleotide heterogeneity along the
promoters of the target genes. We performed a high throughput analysis,
searching the promoters (from 200bp downstream to 1000bp upstream the TSS), of
more than 8000 human and 23,000 mouse genes, for 134 functional Gene Ontology
classes and for 412 known DNA motifs. When combined with binding site and
location conservation between human and mouse, the method identifies with high
probability functional binding sites that regulate groups of biologically
related genes. We found many location-sensitive functional binding events and
showed that they clustered close to the TSS. Our method and findings were put
to several experimental tests. By allowing a "flexible" threshold and combining
our functional class and location specific search method with conservation
between human and mouse, we are able to identify reliably functional TF binding
sites. This is an essential step towards constructing regulatory networks and
elucidating the design principles that govern transcriptional regulation of
expression. The promoter region proximal to the TSS appears to be of central
importance for regulation of transcription in human and mouse, just as it is in
bacteria and yeast.