We present JHKs photometry, far red spectra, and spectral classifications for
an additional 67 L dwarfs discovered by the Two Micron All Sky Survey. One of
the goals of this new search was to locate more examples of the latest L
dwarfs. Of the 67 new discoveries, 17 have types of L6 or later. Analysis of
these new discoveries shows that H-alpha emission has yet to be convincingly
detected in any L dwarf later than type L4.5, indicating a decline or absence
of chromospheric activity in the latest L dwarfs. Further analysis shows that
16 (and possibly 4 more) of the new L dwarfs are lithium brown dwarfs and that
the average line strength for those L dwarfs showing lithium increases until
roughly type L6.5 V then declines for later types. This disappearance may be
the first sign of depletion of atomic lithium as it begins to form into
lithium-bearing molecules. Another goal of the search was to locate nearer,
brighter L dwarfs of all subtypes. Using absolute magnitudes for 17 L dwarf
systems with trigonometric parallax measurements, we develop spectrophotometric
relations to estimate distances to the other L dwarfs. Of the 67 new
discoveries, 21 have photometric distances placing them within 25 parsecs of
the Sun. A table of all known L and T dwarfs believed to lie within 25 parsecs
- 53 in total - is also presented. Using the distance measurement of the
coolest L dwarf known, we calculate that the gap in temperature between L8 and
the warmest known T dwarfs is less than 350K and probably much less. If the
transition region between the two classes spans a very small temperature
interval, this would explain why no transition objects have yet been uncovered.
This evidence, combined with model fits to low-resolution spectra of late-M and
early-L dwarfs, indicates that L dwarfs span the range 1300K < Teff < 2000K.