We investigate the possibility of measuring magnetic field strength in G-band
bright points through the analysis of Zeeman polarization in molecular CH
lines. To this end we solve the equations of polarized radiative transfer in
the G band through a standard plane-parallel model of the solar atmosphere with
an imposed magnetic field, and through a more realistic snapshot from a
simulation of solar magneto-convection. This region of the spectrum is crowded
with many atomic and molecular lines. Nevertheless, we find several instances
of isolated groups of CH lines that are predicted to produce a measurable
Stokes V signal in the presence of magnetic fields. In part this is possible
because the effective Land\'{e} factors of lines in the stronger main branch of
the CH A$^{2}\Delta$--X$^{2}\Pi$ transition tend to zero rather quickly for
increasing total angular momentum $J$, resulting in a Stokes $V$ spectrum of
the G band that is less crowded than the corresponding Stokes $I$ spectrum. We
indicate that, by contrast, the effective Land\'{e} factors of the $R$ and $P$
satellite sub-branches of this transition tend to $\pm 1$ for increasing $J$.
However, these lines are in general considerably weaker, and do not contribute
significantly to the polarization signal. In one wavelength location near 430.4
nm the overlap of several magnetically sensitive and non-sensitive CH lines is
predicted to result in a single-lobed Stokes $V$ profile, raising the
possibility of high spatial-resolution narrow-band polarimetric imaging. In the
magneto-convection snapshot we find circular polarization signals of the order
of 1% prompting us to conclude that measuring magnetic field strength in
small-scale elements through the Zeeman effect in CH lines is a realistic
prospect.