The Chamaeleon star-forming region has been extensively studied in the last
decades. However, most studies have been confined to the densest parts of the
clouds. In a previous paper, we analysed the kinematical properties of the
spectroscopically confirmed population of the Chamaeleon I and II clouds. We
now report on a search for new kinematical candidate members to the Chamaeleon
I and II moving groups using available information from public databases and
catalogues. Our candidates were initially selected in an area of 3 deg around
each cloud on the basis of proper motions and colours from the UCAC4 Catalog.
The SEDs of the objects were constructed using photometry retrieved from the
Virtual Observatory and other resources, and fitted to models of stellar
photospheres to derive effective temperatures, gravity values, and
luminosities. Masses and ages were estimated by comparison with theoretical
evolutionary tracks in a Hertzprung-Russell diagram. We have identified 51 and
14 candidate members to the Chamaeleon I and II moving groups, respectively, of
which 17 and 1, respectively, are classified as probable young stars (ages < 20
Myr) according to our analysis. Another object in Chamaeleon I located slightly
above the 1 Myr isochrone is classified as a possible young star. All these
objects are diskless stars with masses in the range 0.3M-1.4MSun, and ages
consistent with those reported for the corresponding confirmed members. They
tend to be located at the boundaries of or outside the dark clouds, preferably
to the north-east and south-east in the case of Chamaeleon I, and to the
north-east in the case of Chamaeleon II. We conclude that the kinematical
population of Chamaeleon I and II could be larger and spread over a larger area
of the sky than suggested by previous studies.