We present results on the location, physical conditions, and geometry of the
outflow in the Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 3783 from a study of the variable intrinsic
UV absorption. Based on 18 observations with HST/STIS and 6 observations with
FUSE, we find: 1) The absorption from the lowest-ionization species in each of
the three strong kinematic components varied inversely with the continuum flux,
indicating the ionization structure responded to changes in the photoionizing
flux over the weekly timescales sampled by our observations. 2) A multi-
component model with an unocculted NLR and separate BLR and continuum
line-of-sight covering factors predicts saturation in several lines, consistent
with the lack of observed variability. 3) Column densities for the individual
metastable levels are measured from the resolved C III *1175 absorption complex
observed in one component. Based on our computed metastable level populations,
the electron density of this absorber is ~3x10^4 cm^-3. Photoionization
modeling results place it at ~25 pc from the central source. 4) Using
time-dependent calculations, we are able to reproduce the detailed variability
observed in this absorber, and derive upper limits on the distances for the
other components of 25-50 pc. 5) The ionization parameters derived for the
higher ionization UV absorbers are consistent with the modeling results for the
lowest-ionization X-ray component, but with smaller total column density. They
have similar pressures as the three X-ray ionization components. These results
are consistent with an inhomogeneous wind model for the outflow in NGC 3783. 6)
Based on the predicted emission-line luminosities, global covering factor
constraints, and distances derived for the UV absorbers, they may be identified
with emission- line gas observed in the inner NLR of AGNs. (abridged)