We present Star Formation Histories (SFHs) for a sample of 104 massive
(M$>$10$^{10}$ M$\odot$) quiescent galaxies (MQGs) at $z=$1.0-1.5. The SFHs
have been inferred from spectro-photometric data from the SHARDS and HST/WFC3
G102 and G141 surveys of the GOODS-N field and broad-band observations in the
UV-to-FIR spectral range. The sample of MQGs is based on rest-frame $UVJ$
colors and specific star formation rates. The Spectral Energy Distributions
(SEDs) of each galaxy have been compared to models assuming an exponentially
declining SFH. The SED-fitting method includes a Montecarlo algorithm to
characterize the degeneracies in this kind of study. Taking advantage of the
SHARDS data resolution, we are able to break these degeneracies by measuring
absorption indices (Mg$_{UV}$ and D4000). Most of the sample ($\sim$85$\%$)
presents relatively young mass-weighted ages t$_M$ $<$2 Gyr, short star
formation timescales $\tau$ $\sim$60-200 Myr and their average mass is
log(M/M$\odot$)$\sim$10.5. There is also an older population of galaxies
($\sim$15 $\%$ of the sample) with t$_M$ $=$2-4 Gyr, larger star formation
timescales $\tau$ $\sim$400 Myr, and more massive log(M/M$\odot$)=10.8. We find
that the derived SFHs for our MQGs are consistent with the slope and the
location of the Main Sequence of star-forming galaxies (MS) at $z>1.5$, when
our galaxies were 0.5--1.0~Gyr old. According to the derived SFH, all of the
MQGs experienced a Luminous Infrared Galaxy (LIRG) phase during typically
$\sim$500 Myr and roughly half of them went through ULIRG phase for $\sim$100
Myr. Attending to the SFHs of MQGs at 1$<z<$1.5, we find that the build-up of
the red sequence is continuous at least down to z$\sim$1, and only below that
redshift the evolution of massive galaxies is dominated by quiescence.