The close environment of the central supermassive black hole of our Galaxy is
studied thoroughly since decades in order to shed light on the behavior of the
central regions of galaxies in general and of active galaxies in particular.
The Galactic Center has shown a wealth of structures on different scales with a
complicated mixture of early- and late-type stars, ionized and molecular gas,
dust and winds. Here we aim at studying the distribution of water ices and
hydrocarbons in the central parsec as well as along the line of sight. This
study is made possible thanks to L-band spectroscopy. This spectral band, from
2.8 to 4.2$\mu m$, hosts important signatures of the circumstellar medium and
interstellar dense and diffuse media among which deep absorption features are
attributed to water ices and hydrocarbons. We observed the Galactic Center in
the L-band of ISAAC spectrograph located on UT1/VLT ESO telescope. By mapping
the central half parsec using 27 slit positions, we were able to build the
first data cube of the region in this wavelength domain. Thanks to a calibrator
spectrum of the foreground extinction in the L-band derived in a previous
paper, we corrected our data cube for the line of sight extinction and
validated our calibrator spectrum. The data show that a residual absorption due
to water ices and hydrocarbons is present in the corrected data cube. This
suggests that the features are produced in the local environment of the
Galactic center implying very low temperatures well below 80K. This is in
agreement with our finding of local CO ices in the central parsec described in
Moultaka et al. (2015).