We present a catalogue of MgII absorption systems obtained from high
resolution UVES/VLT data of 77 QSOs in the redshift range 0.6 < z < 2.0, and
down to an equivalent width W_0 > 0.1 \AA. The statistical properties of our
sample are found to be in agreement with those from previous work in the
literature. However, we point out that the previously observed increase with
redshift of dN/dz for weak absorbers, pertains exclusively to very weak
absorbers with W_0 < 0.1 \AA. Instead, dN/dz for absorbers with W_0 in the
range 0.1-0.3 \AA actually decreases with redshift, similarly to the case of
strong absorbers. We then use this catalogue to extend our earlier analysis of
the links between the Faraday Rotation Measure of the quasars and the presence
of intervening MgII absorbing systems in their spectra. In contrast to the case
with strong MgII absorption systems W_0 > 0.3 \AA, the weaker systems do not
contribute significantly to the observed Rotation Measure of the background
quasars. This is possibly due to the higher impact parameters of the weak
systems compared to strong ones, suggesting that the high column density
magnetized material that is responsible for the Faraday Rotation is located
within about 50 kpc of the galaxies. Finally, we show that this result also
rules out the possibility that some unexpected secondary correlation between
the quasar redshift and its intrinsic Rotation Measure is responsible for the
association of high Rotation Measure and strong intervening MgII absorption
that we have presented elsewhere, since this would have produced an equal
effect for the weak absorption line systems, which exhibit a very similar
distribution of quasar redshifts.