Turbulent mixing and entrainment at the boundary of a cloud is studied by
means of direct numerical simulations that couple the Eulerian description of
the turbulent velocity and water vapor fields with a Lagrangian ensemble of
cloud water droplets that can grow and shrink by condensation and evaporation,
respectively. The focus is on detailed analysis of the relaxation process of
the droplet ensemble during the entrainment of subsaturated air, in particular
the dependence on turbulence time scales, droplet number density, initial
droplet radius and particle inertia. We find that the droplet evolution during
the entrainment process is captured best by a phase relaxation time that is
based on the droplet number density with respect to the entire simulation
domain and the initial droplet radius. Even under conditions favoring
homogeneous mixing, the probability density function of supersaturation at
droplet locations exhibits initially strong negative skewness, consistent with
droplets near the cloud boundary being suddenly mixed into clear air, but
rapidly approaches a narrower, symmetric shape. The droplet size distribution,
which is initialized as perfectly monodisperse, broadens and also becomes
somewhat negatively skewed. Particle inertia and gravitational settling lead to
a more rapid initial evaporation, but ultimately only to slight depletion of
both tails of the droplet size distribution. The Reynolds number dependence of
the mixing process remained weak over the parameter range studied, most
probably due to the fact that the inhomogeneous mixing regime could not be
fully accessed when phase relaxation times based on global number density are
considered.