In this paper we analyze the line-strength indices in the Lick-system
measured by Longhetti et al. (1998a, b) for a sample of 51 early-type galaxies
located in low density environments (LDE) and showing signatures of fine
structures and/or interactions. The sample contains 21 shell-galaxies and 30
members of interacting pairs. Firstly we perform a preliminary comparison
between three different sources of calibrations of the line strength indices,
namely Buzzoni et al. (1992, 1994), Worthey (1992), Worthey et al. (1994) and
Idiart et al. (1995), derived from stars with different effective temperature,
gravity, and metallicity. Secondly, we discuss the properties of the galaxies
in our sample by comparing them both with theoretical Single Stellar
Populations (SSPs) and the {\sl normal} galaxies of the Gonz\'alez (1993: G93)
sample. The analysis is performed by means of several diagnostic planes. In the
H$\beta$ vs. [MgFe] plane, which is perhaps best suited to infer the age of the
stellar populations, the peculiar galaxies in our sample show nearly the same
distribution of the {\sl normal} galaxies in the G93 sample. There is however a
number of peculiar galaxies with much stronger H$\beta$. Does this mean that
the scatter in the H$\beta$ vs. [MgFe] plane, of normal, shell- and
pair-galaxies has a common origin, perhaps a secondary episode of star
formation? We suggest that, owing to their apparent {\sl youth}, shell- and
pair-galaxies should have experienced at least one interaction event after
their formation. The explanation comes natural for shell- and pair-galaxies
where the signatures of interactions are evident. It is more intrigued in {\sl
normal} galaxies (perhaps other causes may concur).