SmB6, a well-known Kondo insulator, has been proposed to be an ideal
topological insulator with states of topological character located in a clean,
bulk electronic gap, namely the Kondo hybridisation gap. Seeing as the Kondo
gap arises from many body electronic correlations, this would place SmB6 at the
head of a new material class: topological Kondo insulators. Here, for the first
time, we show that the k-space characteristics of the Kondo hybridisation
process is the key to unravelling the origin of the two types of metallic
states observed directly by ARPES in the electronic band structure of
SmB6(001). One group of these states is essentially of bulk origin, and cuts
the Fermi level due to the position of the chemical potential 20 meV above the
lowest lying 5d-4f hybridisation zone. The other metallic state is more
enigmatic, being weak in intensity, but represents a good candidate for a
topological surface state. However, before this claim can be substantiated by
an unequivocal measurement of its massless dispersion relation, our data raises
the bar in terms of the ARPES resolution required, as we show there to be a
strong renormalisation of the hybridisation gaps by a factor 2-3 compared to
theory, following from the knowledge of the true position of the chemical
potential and a careful comparison with the predictions from recent
LDA+Gutzwiler calculations. All in all, these key pieces of evidence act as
triangulation markers, providing a detailed description of the electronic
landscape in SmB6, pointing the way for future, ultrahigh resolution ARPES
experiments to achieve a direct measurement of the Dirac cones in the first
topological Kondo insulator.