In order to test the prevailing paradigm of horizontal-branch (HB) stellar
evolution, we use the large databases of measured RR Lyrae parameters for the
globular cluster M3 (NGC 5272) recently provided by Bakos et al. and Corwin &
Carney. We compare the observed distribution of fundamentalized periods against
the predictions of synthetic HBs. The observed distribution shows a sharp peak
at P_f ~ 0.55 d, which is primarily due to the RRab variables, whereas the
model predictions instead indicate that the distribution should be more uniform
in P_f, with a buildup of variables with shorter periods (P_f < 0.5 d).
Detailed statistical tests show, for the first time, that the observed and
predicted distributions are incompatible with one another at a high
significance level. We show that the sharp peak in the M3 period distribution
receives a significant contribution from the Blazhko variables in the cluster.
We also show that M15 (NGC 7078) and M68 (NGC 4590) show similar peaks in their
P_f distributions, which in spite of being located at a similar P_f value as
M3's, can be primarily ascribed to the RRc variables. Again similar to M3, a
demise of RRc variables towards the blue edge of the instability strip is
present in these two globulars. This is again in sharp contrast with the
evolutionary scenario, which also foresees a strong buildup of RRc variables
with short periods in OoII globulars. We speculate that, in OoI systems, RRab
variables may get "trapped" close to the transition line between RRab and RRc
pulsators as they evolve to the blue, whereas in OoII systems it is the RRc
variables that may get "trapped" instead, as they evolve to the red, before
changing their pulsation mode to RRab. Such a scenario is supported by the
available CMDs and Bailey diagrams for M3, M15, and M68.