We explore the formation of dusty gas walls induced by a circumnuclear
starburst around an AGN. We concentrate our attention on the role of the
radiation force by a starburst as well as an AGN, where the effects of optical
depth of dusty gas are taken into consideration. In two-dimensional
axisymmetric space, we analyze the configuration and the stability of
geometrically thin walls which are in balance between radiation pressure and
gravity. As a result, it is shown that the radiation force by the circumnuclear
starburst works to stabilize optically thick walls surrounding the nucleus. In
the case of a brighter starburst with a fainter AGN, there form double walls,
an inner one of which is located between the nucleus and the circumnuclear
starburst, and an outer one of which enshrouds both the starburst regions and
the nucleus. The total extinction (Av) of both walls turns out to be ~10 for a
brighter starburst. As a consequence, double walls could heavily obscure the
nucleus to make the AGN type 2. The outer wall may provide an explanation for
the recent indications for large-scale obscuring materials in Seyfert 2's.
Also, it is predicted that the AGN type is shifts from type 2 to type 1 in
several times 10^7 yr according to the stellar evolution in the starburst. In
contrast, if the AGN itself is much brighter than the starburst as a quasar is,
then neither wall forms regardless of the starburst activity and the nucleus is
likely to be identified as type 1. To conclude, the radiatively-supported gas
walls could be responsible for the putative correlation between AGN type and
the starbursts, whereby Seyfert 2 galaxies are more frequently associated with
circumnuclear starbursts than type 1, whereas quasars are mostly observed as
type 1 regardless of star-forming activity in the host galaxies.