We present comprehensive and reliable statistics of high altitude wind speeds
and the tropospheric flows at the location of five important astronomical
observatories. Statistical analysis exclusively of high altitude winds point to
La Palma as the most suitable site for adaptive optics, with a mean value of
22.13 m/s at the 200 mbar pressure level. La Silla is at the bottom of the
ranking, with the largest average value 200 mbar wind speed(33.35 m/s). We have
found a clear annual periodicity of high altitude winds for the five sites in
study. We have also explored the connection of high to low altitude atmospheric
winds as a first approach of the linear relationship between the average
velocity of the turbulence and high altitude winds (Sarazin & Tokovinin 2001).
We may conclude that high and low altitude winds show good linear relationships
at the five selected sites. The highest correlation coefficients correspond to
Paranal and San Pedro Martir, while La Palma and La Silla show similar high to
low altitude wind connection. Mauna Kea shows the smallest degree of
correlation, which suggests a weaker linear relationship. Our results support
the idea of high altitude winds as a parameter for rank astronomical sites in
terms of their suitability for adaptive optics, although we have no evidence
for adopting the same linear coefficient at different sites. The final value of
this linear coefficient at a particular site could drastically change the
interpretation of high altitude wind speeds as a direct parameter for site
characterization.