We search for the boundary between stable and Rayleigh-Taylor unstable
regimes of accretion to magnetized stars in a new set of high grid resolution
simulations. We found that the boundary between stable and unstable regimes is
mainly determined by the ratio of the corotation radius r_cor (where the
Keplerian angular velocity in the disc matches the angular velocity of the
star) to the magnetospheric radius r_m (where the magnetic stress in the
magnetosphere matches the matter stress in the disc). Instability is stronger
when r_cor is larger with respect to r_m, that is, when the gravitational force
is larger than the centrifugal force at the inner disc. In the cases of a small
tilt of the magnetosphere, Theta=5 deg, and a small alpha-parameter of
viscosity, alpha=0.02, the boundary is located at r_cor approx. 1.4 r_m.
Instability becomes stronger at higher values of viscosity, and occurs at lower
values of r_cor/r_m. At higher values of Theta, the variability associated with
instability decreases. Simulations show two types of unstable accretion:
chaotic and ordered. In the chaotic regime, several tongues form randomly and
the light-curve has a few peaks per dynamical time-scale. In the ordered
unstable regime, one or two tongues form and rotate with the frequency of the
inner disc. The ordered unstable regime is found in the cases of relatively
small magnetospheres, r_m < 4.2 R_star, and when r_cor > 1.7 r_m. Results of
our simulations are applicable to accreting magnetized stars with relatively
small magnetospheres: Classical T Tauri stars (CTTSs), some accreting
magnetized white dwarfs and neutron stars. The variability associated with the
unstable regimes may explain the quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) in
different types of stars, such as accreting millisecond pulsars. In
observations of young stars, this QPO frequency may be mistaken for the period
of the star.