A consistent approach for an exhaustive solution of the problem of
propagation of light rays in the field of gravitational waves emitted by a
localized source of gravitational radiation is developed in the first
post-Minkowskian and quadrupole approximation of General Relativity. We
demonstrate that the equations of light propagation in the retarded
gravitational field of an arbitrary localized source emitting quadrupolar
gravitational waves can be integrated exactly. The influence of the
gravitational field on the light propagation is examined not only in the wave
zone but also in cases when light passes through the intermediate and near
zones of the source. Explicit analytic expressions for light deflection and
integrated time delay (Shapiro effect) are obtained accounting for all possible
retardation effects and arbitrary relative locations of the source of
gravitational waves, that of light rays, and the observer. It is shown that the
ADM and harmonic gauge conditions can both be satisfied simultaneously outside
the source of gravitational waves. Their use drastically simplifies the
integration of light propagation equations and those for the motion of light
source and observer in the field of the source of gravitational waves, leading
to the unique interpretation of observable effects. The two limiting cases of
small and large values of impact parameter are elaborated in more detail.
Explicit expressions for Shapiro effect and deflection angle are obtained in
terms of the transverse-traceless part of the space-space components of the
metric tensor. We also discuss the relevance of the developed formalism for
interpretation of radio interferometric and timing observations, as well as for
data processing algorithms for future gravitational wave detectors.