The Australian Square Kilometer Array Pathfinder (ASKAP) will revolutionise
our knowledge of gas-rich galaxies in the Universe. Here we present predictions
for two proposed extragalactic ASKAP neutral hydrogen (HI) emission-line
surveys, based on semi-analytic models applied to cosmological N-body
simulations. The ASKAP HI All-Sky Survey, known as WALLABY, is a shallow 3 Pi
survey (z = 0 - 0.26) which will probe the mass and dynamics of over 600,000
galaxies. A much deeper small-area HI survey, called DINGO, aims to trace the
evolution of HI from z = 0 - 0.43, a cosmological volume of 40 million Mpc^3,
detecting potentially 100,000 galaxies. The high-sensitivity 30 antenna ASKAP
core (diameter ~2 km) will provide an angular resolution of 30 arcsec (at z=0).
Our simulations show that the majority of galaxies detected in WALLABY (87.5%)
will be resolved. About 5000 galaxies will be well resolved, i.e. more than
five beams (2.5 arcmin) across the major axis, enabling kinematic studies of
their gaseous disks. This number would rise to 160,000 galaxies if all 36 ASKAP
antennas could be used; the additional six antennas provide baselines up to 6
km, resulting in an angular resolution of 10 arcsec. For DINGO this increased
resolution is highly desirable to minimise source confusion; reducing confusion
rates from a maximum of 10% of sources at the survey edge to 3%. We estimate
that the sources detected by WALLABY and DINGO will span four orders of
magnitude in total halo mass (from 10^{11} to 10^{15} Msol) and nearly seven
orders of magnitude in stellar mass (from 10^{5} to 10^{12} Msol), allowing us
to investigate the process of galaxy formation across the last four billion
years.