A significant fraction of white dwarfs (WDs) are observed to be polluted with
metals despite high surface gravities and short settling times. The current
theoretical model for this pollution is accretion of rocky bodies delivered to
the WD through perturbations by orbiting planets. Using N-body simulations, we
examine the possibility of a single planet as the source of pollution. We
determine the stability of test particles on circular orbits in systems with a
single planet located at 4 au for a range of masses and eccentricities,
comparing the fractions that are ejected and accreted. In particular, we
compare the instabilities that develop before and after the star loses mass to
form a WD, a process which causes orbiting bodies to migrate outward. We
determine that a planet must be eccentric (e > 0.02) to deliver significant (>
0.5 per cent) amounts of material to the host and that the amount increases
with the planetary eccentricity. This result is robust with respect to the
initial eccentricities of the particles for planetary eccentricity above ~0.4
and for randomly-distributed particle long. of pericentre. We also find that
the efficiency of pollution is enhanced as planetary mass is reduced. We
demonstrate that a 0.03 M_Jup planet with substantial eccentricity (e > 0.4)
can account for the observed levels of pollution for initial disc masses of
order 1 M_Earth. Such discs are within the range estimated for initial
planetesimals discs and below that estimated for the solar system. However,
their survival to the WD stage is uncertain as estimates for the collisional
evolution of planetesimal discs suggest they should be ground down below the
required levels on Gyr timescales. Thus, planetary scattering by eccentric,
sub-Jovian planets can explain the observed levels of WD pollution, but only if
current estimates of the collisional erosion of planetesimal discs are in
error.