Collaborative beamforming (CB) is a power efficient method for data
communications in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) which aims at increasing the
transmission range in the network by radiating the power from a cluster of
sensor nodes in the directions of the intended base station(s) or access
point(s) (BSs/APs). The CB average beampattern expresses a deterministic
behavior and can be used for characterizing/controling the transmission at
intended direction(s), since the mainlobe of the CB beampattern is independent
on the particular random node locations. However, the CB for a cluster formed
by a limited number of collaborative nodes results in a sample beampattern with
sidelobes that severely depend on the particular node locations. High level
sidelobes can cause unacceptable interference when they occur at directions of
unintended BSs/APs. Therefore, sidelobe control in CB has a potential to
increase the network capacity and wireless channel availability by decreasing
the interference. Traditional sidelobe control techniques are proposed for
centralized antenna arrays and, therefore, are not suitable for WSNs. In this
paper, we show that distributed, scalable, and low-complexity sidelobe control
techniques suitable for CB in WSNs can be developed based on node selection
technique which make use of the randomness of the node locations. A node
selection algorithm with low-rate feedback is developed to search over
different node combinations. The performance of the proposed algorithm is
analyzed in terms of the average number of trials required to select the
collaborative nodes and the resulting interference. Our simulation results
approve the theoretical analysis and show that the interference is
significantly reduced when node selection is used with CB.