We review the soft X-ray properties of 3C 390.3, 3C 120, 3C 382 and 3C 445,
the only Broad Line Radio Galaxies (BLRG) for which good quality gratings data
are currently available. The XMM-Newton/RGS data of 3C 390.3 and 3C 120 were
re-analyzed searching for warm absorbers, already discovered in 3C 382 and 3C
445. We confirm the absence of ionized absorption features in 3C 120, but find
signatures of outflowing gas (v_out \sim 10^2 km s^-1) in 3C 390.3. Its warm
absorber (Log\xi \sim 2 erg cm s^-1, N_H\sim 10^20 cm^-2), similar to that
observed in 3C 382, is probably placed in the Narrow Line Regions. Its gas
content is slower and less dense than the accretion disk wind discovered in 3C
445. Independently from the location of the warm gas, the outflowing masses
(\dotM_out) of BLRGs are significantly (but improbably) predominant with
respect to the accretion masses (\dotM_acc), suggesting a clumpy configuration
of the warm absorber. However, even assuming overestimated values of \dotM_out,
the kinetic luminosity of the outflow (\dotE_out) is well below 1% of the
kinetic power of the jet (P_jet). Thus, the jet remains the major driver of the
radio-loud AGN feedback at least on pc scale and beyond. The warm absorber
parameters (N_H, \xi) of BLRGs span similar range of values of type 1
radio-quiet AGNs. However, when the mass outflow rate of BLRGs and Seyfert 1s
is plotted as a function of the radio-loudness, R=Log [\nu
L_\nu(5GHz)/L_(2-10keV)], the mass outflow rate seems to increase with radio
power.