This work was conducted as part of the SPECPDR program, dedicated to the
study of very small particles and astrochemistry, in Photo-Dissociation Regions
(PDRs). We present the analysis of the mid-IR spectro-imagery observations of
Ced 201, NCG 7023 East and North-West and rho-Ophiuchi West filament. Using the
data from all four modules of the InfraRed Spectrograph onboard the Spitzer
Space Telescope, we produced a spectral cube ranging from 5 to 35 um for each
one of the observed PDRs. The resulting cubes were analysed using Blind Signal
Separation methods (NMF and FastICA). For Ced 201, rho-Ophiuchi West filament
and NGC 7023 East, we find that two signals can be extracted from the original
data cubes, which are 5 to 35 um spectra. The main features of the first
spectrum are a strong continuum emission at long wavelengths, and a broad 7.8
um band. On the contrary, the second spectrum exhibits the classical Aromatic
Infrared Bands (AIBs) and no continuum. The reconstructed spatial distribution
maps show that the latter spectrum is mainly present at the cloud surface,
close to the star whereas the first one is located slightly deeper inside the
PDR. The study of the spectral energy distribution of Ced 201 up to 100 um
suggests that, in cool PDRs, the 5-25 um continuum is carried by Very Small
Grains (VSGs). The AIB spectra in the observed objects can be interpreted as
the contribution of neutral and positively-charged Polycyclic Aromatic
Hydrocarbons (PAHs). We extracted the 5 to 25 um emission spectrum of VSGs in
cool PDRs, these grains being most likely carbonaceous. We show that the
variations of the mid-IR (5-35 um) spectra of PDRs can be explained by the
photo-chemical processing of these VSGs and PAHs, VSGs being the progenitors of
free PAH.