We report the PACS-100um/160um detections of a sample of 42 GALEX-selected
and FIR-detected Lyman break galaxies (LBGs) at z ~ 1 located in the COSMOS
field and analyze their ultra-violet (UV) to far-infrared (FIR) properties. The
detection of these LBGs in the FIR indicates that they have a dust content high
enough so that its emission can be directly detected. According to a spectral
energy distribution (SED) fitting with stellar population templates to their
UV-to-near-IR observed photometry, PACS-detected LBGs tend to be bigger, more
massive, dustier, redder in the UV continuum, and UV-brighter than
PACS-undetected LBGs. PACS-detected LBGs at z ~ 1 are mostly disk-like galaxies
and are located over the green-valley and red sequence of the color-magnitude
diagram of galaxies at their redshift. By using their UV and IR emission, we
find that PACS-detected LBGs tend to be less dusty and have slightly higher
total star-formation rates (SFRs) than other PACS-detected UV-selected galaxies
within their same redshift range. As a consequence of the selection effect due
to the depth of the FIR observations employed, all our PACS-detected LBGs are
LIRGs. However, none of them are in the ULIRG regime, where the FIR
observations are complete. The finding of ULIRGs-LBGs at higher redshifts
suggests an evolution of the FIR emission of LBGs with cosmic time. In an
IRX-$\beta$ diagram, PACS-detected LBGs at z ~ 1 tend to be located around the
relation for local starburst similarly to other UV-selected PACS-detected
galaxies at their same redshift. Consequently, the dust-correction factors
obtained with their UV continuum slope allow to determine their total SFR,
unlike at higher redshifts. However, the dust attenuation derived from UV to
NIR SED fitting overestimates the total SFR for most of our PACS-detected LBGs
in age-dependent way: the overestimation factor is higher in younger galaxies.