In the Nastrom-Gage spectrum of atmospheric turbulence we observe a $k^{-3}$
energy spectrum that transitions into a $k^{-5/3}$ spectrum, with increasing
wavenumber $k$. The transition occurs near a transition wavenumber $k_t$,
located near the Rossby deformation wavenumber $k_R$. The Tung-Orlando theory
interprets this spectrum as a double downscale cascade of potential enstrophy
and energy, from large scales to small scales, in which the downscale potential
enstrophy cascade coexists with the downscale energy cascade over the same
length-scale range. We show that, in a temperature forced two-layer
quasi-geostrophic model, the rates with which potential enstrophy and energy
are injected place the transition wavenumber $k_t$ near $k_R$. We also show
that if the potential energy dominates the kinetic energy in the forcing range,
then the Ekman term suppresses the upscale cascading potential enstrophy more
than it suppresses the upscale cascading energy, a behavior contrary to what
occurs in two-dimensional turbulence. As a result, the ratio $\gn/\gee$ of
injected potential enstrophy over injected energy, in the downscale direction,
decreases, thereby tending to decrease the transition wavenumber $k_t$ further.
Using a random Gaussian forcing model, we reach the same conclusion, under the
modeling assumption that the asymmetric Ekman term predominantly suppresses the
bottom layer forcing, thereby disregarding a possible entanglement between the
Ekman term and the nonlinear interlayer interaction. Based on these results, we
argue that the Tung-Orlando theory can account for the approximate coincidence
between $k_t$ and $k_R$. We also identify certain open questions that require
further investigation via numerical simulations.