We present results of an in-depth optical study of the core collapse
supernova remnant G292.0+1.8 using the Rutgers Fabry-Perot (RFP) imaging
spectrometer. Our observations provide a detailed picture of the supernova
remnant in the emission lines of [O III] 5007, Halpha and [N II] 6548. The [O
III] Fabry-Perot scans reveal a bright crescent-shaped spur of previously known
high-velocity (V_radial ~ 1500 km/s) O-rich ejecta located on the eastern side
of the remnant. The spur consists of a semi-coherent structure of mostly
redshifted material, along with several clumps that have apparently broken out
of the more orderly shell-like expansion. The high velocity (>= 600 km/s)
component of the spur also displays a scalloped morphology characteristic of
Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities. We also find a large number of fast-moving knots
(FMKs) of O-rich ejecta undetected in prior photographic plate images and
similar to features seen in Cas A. The position-velocity distribution of the
FMKs can be kinematically described as a shell 3.4' in radius expanding at a
velocity of 1700 km/s. Another feature apparent in the [O III] scans is an
equatorial belt consisting of both a bar-like structure at zero radial velocity
and a clumpy, high velocity ejecta component seen in projection along the line
of sight. The bar is also detected in our Halpha RFP images at zero radial
velocity, providing further evidence that this structure is of circumstellar
origin. We find that the optical and X-ray properties of the bar are consistent
with incomplete (partially radiative) shocks in material of moderate densities.
Assuming a distance of 6 kpc for G292.0+1.8, we estimate a kinematic age of
(3000-3400) d_6 years for this remnant (Abridged).