We confirm that there are at least three separate low-latitude over-densities
of blue F turnoff stars near the Milky Way anti-center: the Monoceros Ring, the
Anti-Center Stream (ACS), and the Eastern Banded Structure (EBS). There might
also be a small number of normal thick disk stars at the same location. The ACS
is a tilted component that extends to higher Galactic latitude at lower
Galactic longitude, 10 kpc from the Sun towards the anti-center. It has a sharp
cutoff on the high latitude side. Distance, velocity, and proper motion
measurements are consistent with previous orbit fits. The mean metallicity is
[Fe/H]$=-0.96 \pm 0.03$, which is lower than the thick disk and Monoceros Ring.
The Monoceros Ring is a higher density substructure that is present at
$15\arcdeg<b<22\arcdeg$ at all longitudes probed in this survey. The structure
likely continues towards lower latitudes. The distances are consistent with a
constant distance from the Galactic Center of 17.6 kpc. The mean line-of-sight
velocity of the structure is consistent with a thick disk rotation. However,
the velocity dispersion of these stars is $\sim 15$ km s$^{-1}$, and the
metallicity is [Fe/H]$=-0.80 \pm 0.01$. Both of these quantities are lower than
the canonical thick disk. We suggest that this ring structure is likely
different from the thick disk, though its association with the disk cannot be
definitively ruled out. The Eastern Banded Structure (EBS) is detected
primarily photometrically, near $(l,b)=(225\arcdeg,30\arcdeg)$, at a distance
of 10.9 kpc from the Sun.