We present high time-resolution optical photometry of the eclipsing binary UZ
For using a superconducting tunnel junction (STJ) device, a photon-counting
array detector with intrinsic energy resolution. Three eclipses of the $\sim$18
mag 126.5 min orbital binary were observed using a $6\times6$ array of Tantalum
STJs at the 4.2-m William Herschel Telescope on La Palma. The detector
presently provides individual photon arrival time accuracy to about 5 $\mu$s,
and a wavelength resolution of about 60 nm at 500 nm, with each array element
capable of counting up to $\sim$5000 photons s$^{-1}$. The data allow us to
place accurate constraints on the accretion geometry from our time- and
spectrally-resolved monitoring, especially of the eclipse ingress and egress.
We find that there are two small accretion regions, located close to the poles
of the white dwarf. The positions of these are accurately constrained, and show
little movement from eclipse to eclipse, even over a number of years. The
colour of the emission from the two regions appears similar, although their
X-ray properties are known to be significantly different: we argue that the
usual accretion shock may be absent at the non-X-ray emitting region, and
instead the flow here interacts directly with the white dwarf surface;
alternatively, a special grazing occultation of this region is required. There
is no evidence for any quasi-periodic oscillations on time-scales of the order
of seconds, consistent with relatively stable cyclotron cooling in each
accretion region.