Net tidal torque by the secondary on a misaligned accretion disk, like the
net tidal torque by the Moon and the Sun on the equatorial bulge of the
spinning and tilted Earth, is suggested by others to be a source to retrograde
precession in non-magnetic, accreting Cataclysmic Variable (CV) Dwarf Novae
systems that show negative superhumps in their light curves. We investigate
this idea in this work. We generate a generic theoretical expression for
retrograde precession in spinning disks that are misaligned with the orbital
plane. Our generic theoretical expression matches that which describes the
retrograde precession of Earths' equinoxes. By making appropriate assumptions,
we reduce our generic theoretical expression to those generated by others, or
to those used by others, to describe retrograde precession in protostellar,
protoplanetary, X-ray binary, non-magnetic CV DN, quasar and black hole
systems. We find that differential rotation and effects on the disk by the
accretion stream must be addressed. Our analysis indicates that the best
description of a retrogradely precessing spinning, tilted, CV DN accretion disk
is a differentially rotating, tilted disk with an attached rotating, tilted
ring located near the innermost disk annuli. Our final, reduced expression for
retrograde precession agrees well with our numerical simulation results and
with selective observational systems that seem to have main sequence
secondaries. Our results suggest that tidal torques should be common to a
variety of systems where one member is spinning and tilted, regardless if
accretion disks are present or not. Our results suggest that the accretion
disk's geometric shape directly affects the disk's precession rate.