The aim of this study is to establish a relationship between target strength
(TS) and total body length of the gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata), in order
to monitor its growth in sea cages. Five classes of commercial size gilthead
sea bream are characterized, comprising lengths from 20 to 25 cm, corresponding
to weights between 160 and 270 g. A few specimens were introduced into a sea
cage of 3 m in diameter and a height of 2.7 m. We measure TS directly using a
Simrad EK60 echosounder with a 7^{\circ} split-beam transducer working at 200
kHz. The transducer was located in the center of the cage during measurements,
at the bottom facing upwards for ventral recordings and on the surface facing
downwards to perform dorsal recordings. Two analyses based on single echo
detection were performed: the first one obtains compensated transducer
directivity TS values from intensity and angular echosounder data; while the
second one omit phase information, affording uncompensated TS values (TSu). Two
algorithms have been applied to analyze single-beam-like data, that differ in
the order in which threshold and echo length criteria are applied to detect
single echoes. TS distributions obtained from the split-beam analysis are
unimodal for both ventral and dorsal measurements, like TSu distributions
obtained when the threshold criterion is applied first. A lineal relationship
was found between mean TS for the ventral aspect and logarithm of total body
length of fish, showing good correlations for both TS and TSu, even having a
few detections. Note that the relationship between TSu and total body length
allows monitoring the growth of gilthead sea bream using low cost equipment
like single beam echosounders.