With the advent of the imaging atmospheric Cherenkov technique in late
1980's, ground-based observations of Very High-Energy gamma rays came into
reality. Since the first source detected at TeV energies in 1989 by Whipple,
the number of high energy gamma-ray sources has rapidly grown up to more than
150 thanks to the second generation experiments like MAGIC, H.E.S.S. and
VERITAS. The Cherenkov Telescope Array observatory is the next generation of
Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescopes, with at least 10 times higher
sensitivity than current instruments. Cherenkov Telescopes have to be equipped
with optical dishes of large diameter -- in general based on segmented mirrors
-- with typical angular resolution of a few arc-minutes. To evaluate the
mirror's quality specific metrological systems are required that possibly take
into account the environmental conditions in which typically Cherenkov
telescopes operate (in open air without dome protection). For this purpose a
new facility for the characterization of mirrors has been developed at the labs
of the Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera of the Italian National Institute of
Astrophysics. The facility allows the precise measurement of the radius of
curvature and the distribution of the concentred light in terms of focused and
scattered components and it works in open air. In this paper we describe the
facility and report some examples of its measuring capabilities from recent
tests campaigns carried out performed on mirrors devoted to Cherenkov
telescopes.