Max-stable processes have proved to be useful for the statistical modelling
of spatial extremes. Several representations of max-stable random fields have
been proposed in the literature. For statistical inference it is often assumed
that there is no temporal dependence, i.e., the observations at spatial
locations are independent in time. We use two representations of stationary
max-stable spatial random fields and extend the concepts to the space-time
domain. In a first approach, we extend the idea of constructing max-stable
random fields as limits of normalized and rescaled pointwise maxima of
independent Gaussian random fields, which was introduced by Kabluchko,
Schlather and de Haan [2009], who construct max-stable random fields associated
to a class of variograms. We use a similar approach based on a well-known
result by H\"usler and Reiss and apply specific spatio-temporal covariance
models for the underlying Gaussian random field, which satisfy weak regularity
assumptions. Furthermore, we extend Smith's storm profile model to a space-time
setting and provide explicit expressions for the bivariate distribution
functions.
  The tail dependence coefficient is an important measure of extremal
dependence. We show how the spatio-temporal covariance function underlying the
Gaussian random field can be interpreted in terms of the tail dependence
coefficient. Within this context, we examine different concepts for
constructing spatio-temporal covariance models and analyse several specific
examples, including Gneiting's class of nonseparable stationary covariance
functions.