More than a dozen microlensing events have been detected so far towards the
LMC and 2 towards the SMC. If all the lenses are in the Galactic halo, both the
LMC and the SMC events are expected to have similar time scales. However, the
first event towards the SMC, MACHO 97-SMC-1, had a time scale of 123 days which
is much larger than the typical time scale for the LMC events. From optical
depth estimates, we first show that the stars within the SMC play a dominant
role as gravitational lenses and can fully account for the observed
microlensing events, mainly due to its large physical depth. We also show that
if the lenses are within the Magellanic Clouds, then the SMC events should be
longer in duration than the LMC events, a fact that is consistent with the
observations. The time scale of the event implies that the mass of the lens is
>2 solar masses if it is in the Milky Way disk or halo, in which case the lens
is expected to be bright and should reveal itself in the spectrum. Here, we
present an optical spectrum of MACHO 97-SMC-1 which shows that the lens is not
in the Milky Way disk or halo, but is a low-mass star within the SMC. It is
worth noting here that MACHO SMC-98-1 is the only OTHER observed event towards
the SMC. This was a binary lens event where the caustic crossing time-scale as
observed by PLANET, MACHO, EROS and OGLE collaborations, suggests that the lens
is within the SMC. Furthermore, the only LMC event where the location of the
lens is known is the binary lens event MACHO LMC-9, for which the lens is also
within the LMC. Thus, ALL the 3 microlensing events towards the Magellanic
Clouds for which we have independent knowledge of the location of the lenses
are due to self-lensing within the Magellanic Clouds.