Based on a new sample of 355 quasars with significant optical polarization
and using complementary statistical methods, we confirm that quasar
polarization vectors are not randomly oriented over the sky with a probability
often in excess of 99.9%. The polarization vectors appear coherently oriented
or aligned over huge (~ 1 Gpc) regions of the sky located at both low (z ~ 0.5)
and high (z ~ 1.5) redshifts and characterized by different preferred
directions of the quasar polarization. In fact, there seems to exist a regular
alternance along the line of sight of regions of randomly and aligned
polarization vectors with a typical comoving length scale of 1.5 Gpc.
Furthermore, the mean polarization angle \bar{\theta} appears to rotate with
redshift at the rate of ~ 30\degr per Gpc. The symmetry of the the \bar{\theta}
-z relation is mirror-like, the mean polarization angle rotating clockwise with
increasing redshift in North Galactic hemisphere and counter-clockwise in the
South Galactic one. These characteristics make the alignment effect difficult
to explain in terms of local mechanisms, namely a contamination by interstellar
polarization in our Galaxy. While interpretations like a global rotation of the
Universe can potentially explain the effect, the properties we observe
qualitatively correspond to the dichroism and birefringence predicted by
photon-pseudoscalar oscillation within a magnetic field. Interestingly, the
alignment effect seems to be prominent along an axis not far from preferred
directions tentatively identified in the CMB maps. Although many questions and
more particularly the interpretation of the effect remain open, alignments of
quasar polarization vectors appear as a promising new way to probe the Universe
and its dark components at extremely large scales.