The mean residual life function is a key functional for a survival
distribution. It has practically useful interpretation as the expected
remaining lifetime given survival up to a particular time point, and it also
characterizes the survival distribution. However, it has received limited
attention in terms of inference methods under a probabilistic modeling
framework. In this paper, we seek to provide general inference methodology for
mean residual life regression. Survival data often include a set of predictor
variables for the survival response distribution, and in many cases it is
natural to include the covariates as random variables into the modeling. We
thus propose a Dirichlet process mixture modeling approach for the joint
stochastic mechanism of the covariates and survival responses. This approach
implies a flexible model structure for the mean residual life of the
conditional response distribution, allowing general shapes for mean residual
life as a function of covariates given a specific time point, as well as a
function of time given particular values of the covariate vector. To expand the
scope of the modeling framework, we extend the mixture model to incorporate
dependence across experimental groups, such as treatment and control groups.
This extension is built from a dependent Dirichlet process prior for the
group-specific mixing distributions, with common locations and weights that
vary across groups through latent bivariate beta distributed random variables.
We develop properties of the proposed regression models, and discuss methods
for prior specification and posterior inference. The different components of
the methodology are illustrated with simulated data sets. Moreover, the
modeling approach is applied to a data set comprising right censored survival
times of patients with small cell lung cancer.