We present the results of a search for variability in the equivalent widths
(EWs) of narrow, associated (Delta v < 5,000 km/s) absorption lines found in
the UV spectra of z < 1.5 quasars. The goal of this search was to use
variability as a means of identifying absorption lines arising in gas that is
intrinsic to the quasar central engine. We have compared archival HST/FOS
spectra of quasars with recent spectra obtained as part of our own snapshot
survey of the same objects with STIS. The intervals between observations are
4-10 years. We primarily focused on the C IV absorption lines, although we also
studied other lines available in the same spectra (e.g., Ly-alpha, N V, O VI).
Our main result is that 4 out of 15 quasars, or 4 out of 19 associated
absorption systems, contained variable narrow absorption lines, which are
indicative of intrinsic absorption. We conclude that a minimum of 21% of the
associated absorption-line systems are variable. Because not all systems will
have necessarily varied, this is a lower limit on this fraction and it is
consistent with previous estimates based on variability, partial coverage
analysis, or statistical arguments. If we interpret the upper limits on the
variability time scale as upper limits on the recombination time of the
absorber, we constrain the density of the absorber to be n_e > 3000 cm^{-3} and
its distance from the ionizing source to be R < 100pc. Moreover, we are now
able to pick out specific intrinsic absorption-line systems to be followed up
with high-dispersion spectroscopy in order to constrain the geometry, location,
and physical conditions of the absorber. We briefly illustrate how followup
studies can yield such constraints by means of a simulation.