The generation of ELF (of the order of 10 Hz) currents and electromagnetic
fields in the off-equatorial E-region (90-120 km) of the Earth's ionosphere and
their subsequent penetration into the deeper ionospheric layers is studied
theoretically and numerically. These ELF currents and fields are generated by
the interaction of an electromagnetic pulse with the E-region at its lower
boundary located at 90 km above the Earth's surface. The wave penetration (with
a typical wavelength of the order of 10 km) of the generated ELF currents and
fields into the deeper ionospheric layers up to 120 km takes place due to the
dominance of the Hall conductivity over the Pederson conductivity in the region
between 90-120 km and penetration becomes diffusive above 120 km. During night
time, the increase in the wave speed due to the reduced conductivities leads to
the deeper penetration. As the angle between Earth's magnetic field and
horizontal is increased (going away from the equator), the currents and fields
penetrate deeper into the ionospheric layers with increased wavelength, the
magnitudes of horizontal (east-west) and vertical currents decrease near the
boundary and the vertical electric field decreases drastically. The horizontal
(east-west) current integrated along vertical is fitted with a current
distribution which can be replaced by a line current raised above its actual
height by the half width of the current distribution for the purpose of the
calculation of its radiation. The maximum of the total east-west current (310
Amps) remains same for various simulation parameters due to the magnetic
shielding.