Stellar seismology reveals some interior properties of thousands of
solar-type stars but the solar seismic sound speed stays puzzling since a
decade as it disagrees with the Standard Solar Model (SSM) prediction. One of
the explanations of this disagreement may be found in the treatment of the
transport of radiation from the solar core to the surface. As the same
framework is used for other stars, it is important to check precisely the
reliability of the interacting cross sections of photons with each species in
order to ensure the energy transport for temperature T > 2 - 10$^6$ K and
density $\rho$ > 0.2 g/cm$^3$. In this paper, we propose a new technique to
reach the domain of temperature and density found in the solar radiative
interior. This technique called the Double Ablation Front (DAF) is based on a
high conversion of the laser energy into X-rays thanks to moderated Z material
irradiated by laser intensity between 1.5 $\times$ 10$^{15}$ W/cm$^2$ and 4
$\times$ 10$^{15}$ W/cm$^2$. This high conversion creates, in addition to the
electronic front a second ablation front in the moderated Z material. Between
the two fronts there is a plateau of density and temperature that we exploit to
heat a sample of iron or of oxide. The first simulations realized with the
hydrodynamic code CHIC show that this technique allows to reach conditions
equivalent to half the radiative zone of the Sun with high stability both in
time and space. We examine the possibility to measure both iron and oxygen
absorption spectra.