A number of radio-loud ultra cool dwarf stars (UCD) exhibit both continuous
broadband and highly polarized pulsed radio emission. In order to determine the
nature of the emission and the physical characteristics in the source region,
we have made multi-epoch, wideband spectral observations of TVLM 0513-46 and 2M
0746+20. We combine these observations with archival radio data to fully
characterize both the temporal and spectral properties of the radio emission.
The continuum spectral energy distribution can be well modeled using
gyrosynchrotron emission from mildly relativistic electrons in a dipolar field.
The pulsed emission exhibits a variety of time-variable characteristics,
including frequency drifts, frequency cutoffs, and multiple pulses per period.
For 2M 0746+20 we determine a pulse period consistent with previously
determined values. We modeled locations of pulsed emission using an oblique
rotating magnetospheric model with beamed electron cyclotron maser (ECM)
sources. The best-fit models have narrow ECM beaming angles aligned with the
local source magnetic field direction, except for one isolated burst from 2M
0746+20. For TVLM 0513-46, the best-fit rotation axis inclination is nearly
orthogonal to the line of sight. For 2M 0746+20 we found a good fit using a
fixed inclination i=36 deg, determined from optical observations. For both
stars the ECM sources are located near feet of magnetic loops with radial
extents 1.2Rs-2.7 Rs and surface fields 2.2 - 2.5 kG. These results support
recent suggestions that radio over-luminous UCDs have a global `weak field'
non-axisymmetric magnetic topologies.