We apply our three dimensional photoionization code to model Wisconsin
H-alpha Mapper observations of the H II region surrounding the O9.5V star Zeta
Oph. Our models investigate the porosity of the interstellar medium around zeta
Oph and the effects of 3D densities on the H-alpha surface brightness and
variation in the [N II]/H-alpha line ratio. The Zeta Oph H II region has a well
characterized ionizing source, so it is an excellent starting point for 3D
models of diffuse ionized gas. We investigate various hierarchically clumped
density structures, varying the overall smoothness within the clumping
algorithm. By simulating the observations, we can estimate the porosity of the
medium in the vicinity of Zeta Oph and find that within the context of our
hierarchically clumped models, around 50% to 80% of the volume is occupied by
clumps surrounded by a low density smooth medium. We also conclude that in
order for O stars to ionize the diffuse Warm Ionized Medium, the O star
environment must be more porous than that surrounding Zeta Oph, with clumps
occupying less than one half of the interstellar volume. Our clumpy models have
irregular boundaries, similar to observed H II regions. However, in observed H
II regions it is difficult to identify the precise location of the boundary
because of the foreground and/or background emission from the widespread Warm
Ionized Medium. This complicates the interpretation of the predicted rapid rise
of some emission line ratios near the edge of uniform density H II regions and
combined with the three dimensional clumpy nature of the interstellar medium
may explain the apparent lack of distinctive emission line ratios near H I -- H
II interfaces.