Previous radio observations of the galaxy cluster A3560 in the Shapley
Concentration showed complex radio emission associated with the brightest
cluster member.To understand its origin we observed it with the GMRT, the VLA
and ATCA at 240 and 610 MHz, 1.28,1.4, 2.3,4.8 and 8.4 GHz, and performed a
detailed morphological and spectral study of the radio emission associated with
the BCG. We also observed the cluster with XMM-Newton and Chandra to derive the
properties of the ICM. The radio emission of the N-E nucleus of the dumb-bell
BCG shows an active radio galaxy, plus aged diffuse emission, which is not
refurbished at present. Our Chandra data show that the radio active nucleus of
the BCG has extended X-ray emission, which we classify as a low-luminosity
corona. A residual image of the XMM-Newton brightness shows the presence of a
spiral-like feature, which we interpret as the signature of gas sloshing. The
presence of a subgroup is clear in the surface brightness residual map, and in
the XMM-Newton temperature analysis. The optical 2D analysis shows substructure
in A3560. A galaxy clump was found at the location of the X-ray subgroup, and
another group is present south of the cluster core, close to the spiral-like
feature. The aged part of the radio emission closely follows the spiral pattern
of the X-ray residual brightness distribution, while the two active radio lobes
are bent in a completely different direction. We conclude that the complex
radio emission associated with the cluster BCG is the result of a minor merger
event in A3560. The aged diffuse emission is strongly affected by the sloshing
motion in the ICM. On the other hand, the bent jets and lobes of the current
radio AGN activity may reflect a complex gas velocity field in the innermost
cluster regions and/or sloshing-induced oscillations in the motion of the cD
galaxy.