We present the analyses of the stellar contents associated with the HII
region Sh2-252 using UBVRI photometry, slit and slitless spectroscopy along
with the NIR data from 2MASS for an area ~1 degree x 1 degree. We studied the
sub-regions of Sh2-252 which includes four compact-HII (CHII) regions, namely
A, B, C and E and two clusters NGC 2175s and Teutsch 136 (Teu 136). Of the
fifteen spectroscopically observed bright stars, eight have been identified as
massive members of spectral class earlier than B3. From the spectro-photometric
analyses, we derived the average distance of the region as 2.4+/-0.2 kpc and
the reddening of the massive members is found to vary between 0.35 to 2.1 mag.
We found that NGC 2175s and Teu 136, located towards the eastern edge of the
complex are the sub-clusters of Sh2-252. The stellar surface density
distribution in K-band shows clustering associated with the regions A, C, E,
NGC 2175s and Teu 136. We have also identified the candidate ionizing sources
of the CHII regions. 61 H_alpha emission sources are identified using slitless
spectroscopy. The distribution of the H_alpha emission sources and candidate
YSOs with IR excess on the V/(V-I) CMD shows that a majority of them have
approximate ages between 0.1 - 5 Myr and masses in the range of 0.3 - 2.5
M_sun. The CMDs of the candidate YSOs in the individual regions also show an
age spread of 0.1 - 5 Myr for each of them. We calculated the KLFs for the
sub-regions A, C, E, NGC 2175s and Teu 136. Within errors, the KLFs for all the
sub-regions are found to be similar and comparable to that of young clusters of
age < 5 Myr. We also estimated the mass functions (MFs) of the PMS sample of
the individual regions in the mass range of 0.3 - 2.5 M_sun. In general, the
slopes of the MFs of all the sub-regions are found comparable to the Salpeter
value.