We present a new method for confirming transiting planets based on the
combination of transit timingn variations (TTVs) and dynamical stability.
Correlated TTVs provide evidence that the pair of bodies are in the same
physical system. Orbital stability provides upper limits for the masses of the
transiting companions that are in the planetary regime. This paper describes a
non-parametric technique for quantifying the statistical significance of TTVs
based on the correlation of two TTV data sets. We apply this method to an
analysis of the transit timing variations of two stars with multiple transiting
planet candidates identified by Kepler. We confirm four transiting planets in
two multiple planet systems based on their TTVs and the constraints imposed by
dynamical stability. An additional three candidates in these same systems are
not confirmed as planets, but are likely to be validated as real planets once
further observations and analyses are possible. If all were confirmed, these
systems would be near 4:6:9 and 2:4:6:9 period commensurabilities. Our results
demonstrate that TTVs provide a powerful tool for confirming transiting
planets, including low-mass planets and planets around faint stars for which
Doppler follow-up is not practical with existing facilities. Continued Kepler
observations will dramatically improve the constraints on the planet masses and
orbits and provide sensitivity for detecting additional non-transiting planets.
If Kepler observations were extended to eight years, then a similar analysis
could likely confirm systems with multiple closely spaced, small transiting
planets in or near the habitable zone of solar-type stars.