We present Galaxy Evolution Explorer (GALEX) far (FUV) and near (NUV)
ultraviolet imaging of the nearby early-type galaxy NGC2974, along with
complementary ground-based optical imaging. In the ultraviolet, the galaxy
reveals a central spheroid-like component and a newly discovered complete outer
ring of radius 6.2kpc, with suggestions of another partial ring at an even
larger radius. Blue FUV-NUV and UV-optical colours are observed in the centre
of the galaxy and from the outer ring outward, suggesting young stellar
populations (< 1Gyr) and recent star formation in both locations. This is
supported by a simple stellar population model which assumes two bursts of star
formation, allowing us to constrain the age, mass fraction and surface mass
density of the young component pixel by pixel. Overall, the mass fraction of
the young component appears to be just under 1per cent (lower limit,
uncorrected for dust extinction). The additional presence of a nuclear and an
inner ring (radii 1.4 and 2.9kpc, respectively), as traced by [OIII] emission,
suggests ring formation through resonances. All three rings are consistent with
a single pattern speed of $78\pm6$ km/s/kpc, typical of S0 galaxies and only
marginally slower than expected for a fast bar if traced by a small observed
surface brightness plateau. This thus suggests that star formation and
morphological evolution in NGC2974 at the present epoch are primarily driven by
a rotating asymmetry (probably a large-scale bar), despite the standard
classification of NGC2974 as an E4 elliptical.