The near-infrared (NIR) wavelength range offers some unique spectral
features, and it is less prone to the extinction than the optical one.
Recently, the first flux calibrated NIR library of cool stars from the NASA
Infrared Telescope Facility (IRTF) have become available, and it has not been
fully exploited yet. We want to develop spectroscopic diagnostics for stellar
physical parameters based on features in the wavelength range 1-5 micron. In
this work we test the technique in the I and K bands. The study of the Y, J, H,
and L bands will be presented in the following paper. An objective method for
semi-empirical definition of spectral features sensitive to various physical
parameters is applied to the spectra. It is based on sensitivity map--i.e.,
derivative of the flux in the spectra with respect to the stellar parameters at
a fixed wavelength. New optimized indices are defined and their equivalent
widths (EWs) are measured. A number of sensitive features to the effective
temperature and surface gravity are re-identified or newly identified clearly
showing the reliability of the sensitivity map analysis. The sensitivity map
allows to identify the best bandpass limits for the line and nearby continuum.
It reliably predicts the trends of spectral features with respect to a given
physical parameter but not their absolute strengths. Line blends are easy to
recognize when blended features have different behavior with respect to some
physical stellar parameter. The use of sensitivity map is therefore
complementary to the use of indices. We give the EWs of the new indices
measured for the IRTF star sample. This new and homogeneous set of EWs will be
useful for stellar population synthesis models and can be used to get
element-by-element abundances for unresolved stellar population studies in
galaxies.