Moderate-resolution, near-infrared spectra between 0.8 and 5.2 microns were
obtained for 12 late-type (K0-M3) disk-bearing members of the ~5 Myr old Upper
Scorpius OB association using SpeX on the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility. For
most sources, continuum excess emission first becomes apparent between ~2.2 and
4.5 microns and is consistent with that produced by single-temperature
blackbodies having characteristic temperatures ranging from ~500 to 1300 K. The
near-infrared spectra for 5 of 12 Upper Scorpius sources exhibit Pa-gamma,
Pa-beta and Br-gamma emission, indicators of disk accretion. Using a
correlation between Pa-beta and Br-gamma emission line luminosity and accretion
luminosity, mass accretion rates (Mdot) are derived for these sources that
range from Mdot = 3.5 X 10^{-10} to 1.5 X 10^{-8} MSun per yr. Merging the SpeX
observations with Spitzer Space Telescope mid-infrared (5.4-37.0 micron)
spectroscopy and 24 and 70 micron broadband photometry, the observed spectral
energy distributions are compared with those predicted by two-dimensional,
radiative transfer accretion disk models. Of the 9 Upper Scorpius sources
examined in this analysis, 3 exhibit spectral energy distributions that are
most consistent with models having inner disk radii that substantially exceed
their respective dust sublimation radii. The remaining Upper Scorpius members
possess spectral energy distributions that either show significant dispersion
among predicted inner disk radii or are best described by models having inner
disk rims coincident with the dust sublimation radius.