Using Science Verification data from the Atacama Large
Millimeter/Submillimeter Array (ALMA), we have identified and imaged five
rotational transitions (J=5-4 and J=6-5) of the three silicon monoxide
isotopologues 28SiO v=0, 1, 2 and 29SiO v=0 and 28Si18O v=0 in the frequency
range from 214 to 246 GHz towards the Orion BN/KL region. The emission of the
ground-state 28SiO, 29SiO and 28Si18O shows an extended bipolar shape in the
northeast-southwest direction at the position of Radio Source I, indicating
that these isotopologues trace an outflow (~18 km/s, P.A. ~50deg, ~5000 AU in
diameter) that is driven by this embedded high-mass young stellar object (YSO).
Whereas on small scales (10-1000 AU) the outflow from Source I has a
well-ordered spatial and velocity structure, as probed by Very Long Baseline
Interferometry (VLBI) imaging of SiO masers, the large scales (500-5000 AU)
probed by thermal SiO with ALMA reveal a complex structure and velocity field,
most likely related to the effects of the environment of the BN/KL region on
the outflow emanating from Source I.
  The emission of the vibrationally-excited species peaks at the position of
Source I. This emission is compact and not resolved at an angular resolution of
~1.5" (~600 AU at a distance of 420 pc). 2-D Gaussian fitting to individual
velocity channels locates emission peaks within radii of 100 AU, i.e. they
trace the innermost part of the outflow. A narrow spectral profile and spatial
distribution of the v=1 J=5-4 line similar to the masing v=1 J=1-0 transition,
provide evidence for the most highly rotationally excited (frequency > 200 GHz)
SiO maser emission associated with Source I known to date. The maser emission
will enable studies of the Source I disk-outflow interface with future ALMA
longest baselines.