We report new near-IR integral field spectroscopy of the central starburst
region of the barred spiral galaxy M83 obtained with CIRPASS on Gemini-S, which
we analyse in conjunction with GHaFaS Fabry-Perot data, an AAT IRIS2 Ks-band
image, and near- and mid-IR imaging from the Hubble and Spitzer space
telescopes. The bulk of the current star formation activity is hidden from
optical view by dust extinction, but is seen in the near- and mid-IR to the
north of the nucleus. This region is being fed by inflow of gas through the bar
of M83, traced by the prominent dust lane entering into the circumnuclear
region from the north. An analysis of stellar ages confirms that the youngest
stars are indeed in the northwest. A gradual age gradient, with older stars
further to the south, characterises the well-known star-forming arc in the
central region of M83. Detailed analyses of the Pa beta ionised gas kinematics
and near-IR imaging confirm that the kinematic centre coincides with the
photometric centre of M83, and that these are offset significantly, by about 3
arcsec or 60 pc, from the visible nucleus of the galaxy. We discuss two
possible options, the first of which postulates that the kinematic and
photometric centre traces a galaxy nucleus hidden by a substantial amount of
dust extinction, in the range A_V=3-10 mag. By combining this information with
kinematic results and using arguments from the literature, we conclude that
such a scenario is, however, unlikely, as is the existence of other "hidden"
nuclei in M83. We thus concur with recent contributors and favour a second option,
in which the nucleus of the galaxy is offset from its kinematic and photometric
centre. This is presumably a result of some past interaction, possibly related
to the event which lies at the origin of the disturbance of the outer disk of
the galaxy. (Abridged)