We present the analysis of 31 observations of 20 bright Compton thin Seyfert
2s, in the 0.1-200 keV band, performed with the BeppoSAX satellite. The sample
consists of all Seyfert 2s in the BeppoSAX public archive, with a 2-10 keV flux
higher than 5x10^(-12) erg/cm^2/s. The good statistics available and the broad
energy band permit a detailed study of the main continuum components of these
sources, i.e. the primary power-law, the reflected component, the soft emission
and the high-energy cut-off. The main results of our analysis are: (1) the
3-200 keV intrinsic power-law has a mean photon index Gamma=1.79+-0.01, with a
dispersion of sigma=0.23. (2) The high-energy exponential cut-off at E~100-300
keV is not an ubiquitous property of Seyfert galaxies: in ~30% of the objects
the continuum power-law does not drop up to energies of 300 keV or more. (3) A
reflected component is present in almost all the sources (17 out of 21). The
small variations of this component with respect to the intrinsic continuum, in
objects with multiple observations, suggests that the reflector is not the
accretion disk, but must be located much farther from the nucleus. (4) The
range of ratios between the reflected and intrinsic components suggests that
the circumnuclear medium is not homogeneous, and a significant fraction of the
solid angle is covered by a gas thicker than that along the line of sight. (5)
The iron Kalpha line is present is all but one the sources. The equivalent
width is in the typical range of Seyfert 1s (EW=100-300 eV) in sources with low
absorption (N_H < 3x10^23 cm^(-2)), and increases in more absorbed objects, as
expected according to unified models. (6) The energy resolution of BeppoSAX is
in general too low to measure the iron line width. However, in 6 cases we
measured a significant line broadening.