The COBE Diffuse Infrared Background Experiment (DIRBE) was designed to
search for the cosmic infrared background (CIB) radiation. Scattered light and
thermal emission from the interplanetary dust (IPD) are major contributors to
the diffuse sky brightness at most infrared wavelengths. Accurate removal of
this zodiacal light foreground is a necessary step toward a direct measurement
of the CIB. The zodiacal light foreground contribution in each of the 10 DIRBE
wavelength bands ranging from 1.25 to 240 microns is distinguished by its
apparent seasonal variation over the whole sky. This contribution has been
extracted by fitting the brightness calculated from a parameterized physical
model to the time variation of the all-sky DIRBE measurements over 10 months of
observations. The model brightness is evaluated as the integral along the line
of sight of the product of a source function and a three-dimensional dust
density distribution function. The dust density distribution is composed of
multiple components: a smooth cloud, three asteroidal dust bands, and a
circumsolar ring near 1 A.U. By using a directly measurable quantity which
relates only to the IPD cloud, we exclude other contributors to the sky
brightness from the IPD model. Using the IPD model described here, high-quality
maps of the infrared sky with the zodiacal foreground removed have been
generated. Imperfections in the model reveal themselves as low-level systematic
artifacts in the residual maps which correlate with components of the IPD. The
most evident of these artifacts are located near the ecliptic plane in the
mid-infrared, and are less than 2% of the zodiacal foreground brightness.
Uncertainties associated with the model are discussed, including implications
for the CIB search.