We have identified 12 Seyfert 1 galaxies that exhibit optical polarization
spectra similar to those of Seyfert 2 galaxies in which polarized broad-lines
are detected. We present new spectropolarimetric observations of 3 of them: Was
45, Mrk 231 and NGC 3227. These objects appear to be polarized as a result of
far-field scattering in the polar illumination cones of the circum-nuclear
torus. We estimate that they represent between 10 and 30 per cent of the
Seyfert 1 population; they are found amongst all the main spectroscopic
sub-types, including narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies. We have shown elsewhere
that Seyfert 1 nuclei more commonly have polarization characteristics that can
be attributed to scattering by a compact 'equatorial' scattering region located
inside the torus. We propose that both equatorial and polar scattering regions
are present in all Seyfert galaxies and argue that the observed range of
polarization properties can be broadly understood as an orientation effect. In
this scheme, polar-scattered Seyfert 1 galaxies represent the transition
between unobscured (the majority of type 1) and obscured (type 2) Seyferts.
They are viewed through the upper layers of the torus and are thus subject to
moderate extinction (Av ~1-4 mag) sufficient to suppress polarized light from
the equatorial scattering region, but not the broad wings of the Balmer lines.
The orientation of the polarization position angle relative to the radio source
is broadly consistent with the two-component scattering model. More generally,
we find that amongst Seyferts 1 galaxies, parallel, perpendicular and
intermediate orientations of the polarization PA relative to the radio axis
occur roughly in the proportions 2:1:1.