Recent numerical simulations of sunspots suggest that overturning convection
is responsible for the existence of penumbral filaments and the Evershed flow,
but there is little observational evidence of this process. Here we carry out a
spectroscopic search for small-scale convective motions in the penumbra of a
sunspot located 5 deg away from the disk center. The position of the spot is
very favorable for the detection of overturning downflows at the edges of
penumbral filaments. Our analysis is based on measurements of the Fe I 709.0 nm
line taken with the Littrow spectrograph of the Swedish 1 m Solar Telescope
under excellent seeing conditions. We compute line bisectors at different
intensity levels and derive Doppler velocities from them. The velocities are
calibrated using a nearby telluric line, with systematic errors smaller than
150 m/s. Deep in the photosphere, as sampled by the bisectors at the 80%-88%
intensity levels, we always observe blueshifts or zero velocities. The maximum
blueshifts reach 1.2 km/s and tend to be cospatial with bright penumbral
filaments. In the line core we detect blueshifts for the most part, with small
velocities not exceeding 300 m/s. Redshifts also occur, but at the level of
100-150 m/s, and only occasionally. The fact that they are visible in high
layers casts doubts on their convective origin. Overall, we do not find
indications of downflows that could be associated with overturning convection
at our detection limit of 150 m/s. Either no downflows exist, or we have been
unable to observe them because they occur beneath tau=1 or the spatial
resolution/height resolution of the measurements is still insufficient.