We present the first multi-epoch study that includes concurrent mid-infrared
and radio interferometry of an oxygen-rich Mira star. We obtained mid-infrared
interferometry of S Ori with VLTI/MIDI at four epochs between December 2004 and
December 2005. We concurrently observed v=1, J=1-0 (43.1 GHz), and v=2, J=1-0
(42.8 GHz) SiO maser emission toward S Ori with the VLBA at three epochs. The
MIDI data are analyzed using self-excited dynamic model atmospheres including
molecular layers, complemented by a radiative transfer model of the
circumstellar dust shell. The VLBA data are reduced to the spatial structure
and kinematics of the maser spots. The modeling of our MIDI data results in
phase-dependent continuum photospheric angular diameters between about 7.9 mas
(Phase 0.55) and 9.7 mas (Phase 1.16). The dust shell can best be modeled with
Al2O3 grains using phase-dependent inner boundary radii between 1.8 and 2.4
photospheric radii. The dust shell appears to be more compact with greater
optical depth near visual minimum, and more extended with lower optical depth
after visual maximum. The ratios of the SiO maser ring radii to the
photospheric radii are between about 1.9 and 2.4. The maser spots mark the
region of the molecular atmospheric layers just beyond the steepest decrease in
the mid-infrared model intensity profile. Their velocity structure indicates a
radial gas expansion. Al2O3 dust grains and SiO maser spots form at relatively
small radii of 1.8-2.4 photospheric radii. Our results suggest increased mass
loss and dust formation close to the surface near the minimum visual phase,
when Al2O3 dust grains are co-located with the molecular gas and the SiO maser
shells, and a more expanded dust shell after visual maximum. Silicon does not
appear to be bound in dust, as our data show no sign of silicate grains.