The helium-peculiar star a Cen exhibits line profile variations of elements
such as iron, nitrogen and oxygen in addition to its well-known extreme helium
variability. New high S/N, high-resolution spectra are used to perform a
quantitative measurement of the abundances of the star and determine the
relation of the concentrations of the heavier elements on the surface of the
star to the helium concentration and the magnetic field orientation. Doppler
images have been created using programs described in earlier papers by Rice and
others. An alternative surface abundance mapping code has been used to model
the helium line variations after our Doppler imaging of certain individual
helium lines produced mediocre results. We confirm the long-known existence of
helium-rich and helium-poor hemispheres on a Cen and we measure a difference of
more than two orders of magnitude in helium abundance from one side of the star
to the other. Helium is overabundant by a factor of about 5 over much of the
helium-rich hemisphere. Of particular note is our discovery that the
helium-poor hemisphere has a very high abundance of helium-3, approximately
equal to the helium-4 abundance. a Cen is therefore a new member of the small
group of helium-3 stars and the first well-established magnetic member of the
class. For the three metals investigated here, there are two strong
concentrations of abundance near the equator consistent with the positive
magnetic maximum and two somewhat weaker concentrations of abundance where the
helium concentration is centered and roughly where the negative peak of the
magnetic field would be found. Another strong concentration is found near the
equator and this is not explainable in terms of any simple symmetry with the
helium abundance or the apparent magnetic field main polar locations.