(Abridged) Context. Stellar limb darkening, I({\mu} = cos{\theta}), is an
important constraint for microlensing, eclipsing binary, planetary transit, and
interferometric observations, but is generally treated as a parameterized
curve, such as a linear-plus-square-root law. Many analyses assume
limb-darkening coefficients computed from model stellar atmospheres. However,
previous studies, using I({\mu}) from plane- parallel models, have found that
fits to the flux-normalized curves pass through a fixed point, a common {\mu}
location on the stellar disk, for all values of T eff, log g and wavelength.
Aims. We study this fixed {\mu}-point to determine if it is a property of the
model stellar atmospheres or a property of the limb-darkening laws.
Furthermore, we use this limb-darkening law as a tool to probe properties of
stellar atmospheres for comparison to limb- darkening observations. Methods.
Intensities computed with plane-parallel and spherically-symmetric Atlas models
(characterized by the three fundamental parameters L\star, M\star and R\star)
are used to reexamine the existence of the fixed {\mu}-point for the
parametrized curves. Results. We find that the intensities from our spherical
models do not have a fixed point, although the curves do have a minimum spread
at a {\mu}-value similar to the parametrized curves. We also find that the
parametrized curves have two fixed points, {\mu}1 and {\mu}2, although {\mu}2
is so close to the edge of the disk that it is missed using plane-parallel
atmospheres. We also find that the spherically- symmetric models appear to
agree better with published microlensing observations relative to
plane-parallel models.