We improve the numerical kludge waveform model introduced in [1] in two ways.
We extend the equations of motion for spinning black hole binaries derived by
Saijo et al. [2] using spin-orbit and spin-spin couplings taken from
perturbative and post-Newtonian (PN) calculations at the highest order
available. We also include first-order conservative self-force corrections for
spin-orbit and spin-spin couplings, which are derived by comparison to PN
results. We generate the inspiral evolution using fluxes that include the most
recent calculations of small body spin corrections, spin-spin and spin-orbit
couplings and higher-order fits to solutions of the Teukolsky equation. Using a
simplified version of this model in [1], we found that small body spin effects
could be measured through gravitational wave observations from
intermediate-mass ratio inspirals (IMRIs) with mass ratio eta ~ 0.001, when
both binary components are rapidly rotating. In this paper we study in detail
how the spin of the small/big body affects parameter measurement using a
variety of mass and spin combinations for typical IMRIs sources. We find that
for IMRI events of a moderately rotating intermediate mass black hole (IMBH) of
ten thousand solar masses, and a rapidly rotating central supermassive black
hole (SMBH) of one million solar masses, gravitational wave observations made
with LISA at a fixed signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 1000 will be able to
determine the inspiralling IMBH mass, the central SMBH mass, the SMBH spin
magnitude, and the IMBH spin magnitude to within fractional errors of ~0.001,
0.001, 0.0001, and 9%, respectively. LISA can also determine the location of
the source in the sky and the SMBH spin orientation to within ~0.0001
steradians. We show that by including conservative corrections up to 2.5PN
order, systematic errors no longer dominate over statistical errors for IMRIs
with typical SNR ~1000.