We report the discovery by the HATSouth network of HATS-7b, a transiting
Super-Neptune with a mass of 0.120+/-0.012 M_Jup, a radius of 0.563+0.046-0.034
R_Jup, and an orbital period of 3.1853 days. The host star is a moderately
bright (V = 13.340+/-0.010 mag, K_S = 10.976+/-0.026 mag) K dwarf star with a
mass of 0.849+/-0.027 M_Sun, a radius of 0.815+0.049-0.035 R_Sun, and a
metallicity of [Fe/H]= +0.250+/-0.080. The star is photometrically quiet to
within the precision of the HATSouth measurements, has low RV jitter, and shows
no evidence for chromospheric activity in its spectrum. HATS-7b is the second
smallest radius planet discovered by a wide-field ground-based transit survey,
and one of only a handful of Neptune-size planets with mass and radius
determined to 10% precision. Theoretical modeling of HATS-7b yields a
hydrogen-helium fraction of 18+/-4% (rock-iron core and H2-He envelope), or
9+/-4% (ice core and H2-He envelope), i.e.it has a composition broadly similar
to that of Uranus and Neptune, and very different from that of Saturn, which
has 75% of its mass in H2-He. Based on a sample of transiting exoplanets with
accurately (<20%) determined parameters, we establish approximate power-law
relations for the envelopes of the mass-density distribution of exoplanets.
HATS-7b, which, together with the recently discovered HATS-8b, is one of the
first two transiting Neptunes discovered in the Southern sky, is a prime target
for additional follow-up observations with southern hemisphere facilities to
characterize the atmospheres of super-Neptunes.