We have obtained deep photometry of NGC 1199 (in the compact group HCG 22)
and NGC 6868 (in the Telescopium loose group) with the Keck II and the VLT-I
telescopes. Both galaxies are the optically brightest galaxy of their groups.
NGC 1199 has two companion galaxies at a median projected distance of only 33
kpc and, based in its peculiar internal structure and large X-ray halo, NGC
6868 has been proposed to be a merger remnant. Our analysis of $B$ and $R$
images uncovered a population of globular clusters around both galaxies, with
total (and local) specific frequency S_N = 3.6\pm1.8 (3.4\pm1.5) for NGC 1199
and S_N = 1.8\pm1.1 (0.8\pm0.4) for NGC 6868. The radial profile of the
globulars of NGC 1199 follows the light distribution of the galaxy and can be
fitted by a power--law and a ``core model'' with a very steep slope (\alpha =
2.5\pm0.3). In the case of NGC 6868, the profile of the globulars is well
fitted by a power--law and a ``core model'' profile of slope 1.4\pm0.3 and is
shallower than the galaxy light distribution. Maximum-likelihood fitting of two
Gaussians to the globular cluster color distribution yields a high significance
for multi-modality with peaks centered at (B-R)_0 = 1.13\pm0.04 and 1.42\pm0.04
(NGC 1199) and (B-R)_0=1.12\pm0.07 and 1.42\pm0.07 (NGC 6868). NGC 1199 and NGC
6868 are good examples of galaxies where the group environment are likely to
have affected their dynamical evolution. We find that for NGC 1199, the
properties of the globular cluster system are similar to those for other
systems around external elliptical galaxies located in less dense environments,
but with a very steep radial profile. In the case of NGC 6868, we find a
regular radial profile and color distribution and a comparatively low specific
frequency for the globular cluster system of the galaxy.