Let $A$ be an $n$ by $N$ real valued random matrix, and $\h$ denote the
$N$-dimensional hypercube. For numerous random matrix ensembles, the expected
number of $k$-dimensional faces of the random $n$-dimensional zonotope $A\h$
obeys the formula $E f_k(A\h) /f_k(\h) = 1-P_{N-n,N-k}$, where $P_{N-n,N-k}$ is
a fair-coin-tossing probability. The formula applies, for example, where the
columns of $A$ are drawn i.i.d. from an absolutely continuous symmetric
distribution. The formula exploits Wendel's Theorem\cite{We62}.
  Let $\po$ denote the positive orthant; the expected number of $k$-faces of
the random cone$A \po$ obeys $ {\cal E} f_k(A\po) /f_k(\po) = 1 - P_{N-n,N-k}$.
The formula applies to numerous matrix ensembles, including those with iid
random columns from an absolutely continuous, centrally symmetric distribution.
There is an asymptotically sharp threshold in the behavior of face counts of
the projected hypercube; thresholds known for projecting the simplex and the
cross-polytope, occur at very different locations. We briefly consider face
counts of the projected orthant when $A$ does not have mean zero; these do
behave similarly to those for the projected simplex. We consider non-random
projectors of the orthant; the 'best possible' $A$ is the one associated with
the first $n$ rows of the Fourier matrix.
  These geometric face-counting results have implications for signal
processing, information theory, inverse problems, and optimization. Most of
these flow in some way from the fact that face counting is related to
conditions for uniqueness of solutions of underdetermined systems of linear
equations.