Stars near the Sun oscillate both horizontally and vertically. In Paper I the
coupling between these motions was modelled by determining the horizontal
motion without reference to the vertical motion, and recovering the coupling by
assuming that the vertical action is adiabatically conserved as the star
oscillates horizontally. Here we show that, although the assumption of
adiabatic invariance works well, more accurate results can be obtained by
taking the vertical action into account when calculating the horizontal motion.
We use orbital tori to present a simple but fairly realistic model of the
Galaxy's discs in which the motion of stars is handled rigorously, without
decomposing it into horizontal and vertical components. We examine the ability
of the adiabatic approximation to calculate the model's observables, and find
that it performs perfectly in the plane, but errs slightly away from the plane.
When the new correction to the adiabatic approximation is used, the density,
streaming velocity and velocity dispersions are in error by less than 10 per
cent for distances up to $2.5\kpc$ from the Sun. The torus-based model reveals
that at locations above the plane the long axis of the velocity ellipsoid
points almost to the Galactic centre, even though the model potential is
significantly flattened. This result contradicts the widespread belief that the
shape of the Galaxy's potential can be strongly constrained by the orientation
of velocity ellipsoid near the Sun. An analysis of orbits reveals that in a
general potential the orientation of the velocity ellipsoid depends on the
structure of the model's distribution function as much as on its gravitational
potential, contrary to what is the case for Staeckel potentials. We argue that
the adiabatic approximation will provide a valuable complement to torus-based
models in the interpretation of current surveys of the Galaxy.