The young cluster NGC 2264 was observed with the Corot satellite for 23 days
uninterruptedly in March 2008 with unprecedent photometric accuracy. We present
here the first results of the analysis of the accreting population. We intended
to look for possible light curve variability of the same nature as that
observed in the classical T Tauri star AA Tau, which was attributed to a
magnetically controlled inner disk warp, which is directly associated with the
interaction between the stellar magnetic field and the inner disk region. We
analysed the Corot light curves of 83 previously known classical T Tauri stars
that belong to NGC 2264 and classified them according to their morphology. We
also studied the Corot light curve morphology as a function of a Spitzer-based
classification of the star-disk systems. The classification derived on the
basis of the Corot light curve morphology agrees very well with the Spitzer
IRAC-based classification of the systems. The percentage of AA Tau-like light
curves decreases as the inner disk dissipates, from 40% +- 10% in systems with
thick inner disks to 36% +- 16% in systems with anemic disks and none in naked
photosphere systems. Indeed, 91% +- 29% of the CTTS with naked photospheres
exhibit pure spot-like variability, while only 18% +- 7% of the thick disk
systems do so, presumably those seen at low inclination and thus free of
variable obscuration. AA Tau-like light curves are found to be fairly common,
with a frequency of at least ~ 30 to 40% in young stars with inner dusty disks.
The temporal evolution of the light curves indicates that the structure of the
inner disk warp, located close to the corotation radius and responsible for the
obscuration episodes, varies over a timescale of a few (~ 1-3) rotational
periods. This probably reflects the highly dynamical nature of the star-disk
magnetospheric interaction.