Several energy-momentum "tensors" of gravitational field are considered and
compared in the lowest approximation. Each of them together with
energy-momentum tensor of point-like particles satisfies the conservation laws
when equations of motion of particles are the same as in general relativity. It
is shown that in Newtonian approximation the considered tensors differ one from
the other in the way their energy density is distributed between energy density
of interaction (nonzero only at locations of particles) and energy density of
gravitational field. Starting from Lorentz invariance the Lagrangians for
spin-2, mass-0 field are considered. They differ only by divergences. From
these Lagrangians by Belinfante-Rosenfeld procedure the energy-momentum tensors
are build. Using each of these tensors in 3-graviton vertex we obtain the
corresponding metric of a Newtonian center in $G^2$ approximation. Only one of
these ''field-theretical''tensors (namely the half sum of Thirring tensor and
tensor obtained from Lagrangian given by Misner, Thorne and Wheeler) leads to
correct value of the perihelion shift. This tensor does not coincide with
Weinberg`s one (directly obtainable from Einstein equation) and gives metric of
a spherical body differing (in space part of metric in the first nonlinear
approximation) from Schwarzschild field in harmonic coordinates. As a result a
relativistic particle in such field must move note according general relativity
prescriptions. This approach puts the gravitational energy-momentum tensor on
the same footing as any other energy-momentum tensor.