This is a preliminary study to examine the prospect of detecting TeV photons
from $\gamma$-ray bursts (GRB) using km-size neutrino telescopes, specifically
for the ANTARES neutrino telescope. Although optimized to detect upgoing
neutrino-induced muons, neutrino telescopes nevertheless have a potential to
detect high-energy photons by detecting downgoing muons from the
electromagnetic cascade induced by the interaction of TeV photons with the
Earth's atmosphere. The photon energy spectrum of a GRB is modeled by a simple
power law and is normalized by simple energy considerations. Taking into
account the absorption of TeV photons by cosmic infrared backgrounds, an
optical depth table calculated from a model by \cite{fin10} is used and the
arriving number of photons on top of the Earth atmosphere is determined. Muon
production in the atmosphere is determined by considering two main channels of
muon production: Pion photoproduction and direct muon pair production. The muon
energy loss during their traverse from the surface to the bottom of the sea is
determined using the standard muon energy loss formula. Assuming different
detector sizes, the number of detectable muons from single GRB events located
at different redshifts and zenith distances is determined. The background is
calculated assuming it consists primarily of cosmic ray-induced downgoing
muons. The detection significance is calculated and it can be concluded that to
obtain at least $3\sigma$ detection significance, a typical GRB has to be
located at redshift $z \lesssim 0.07$ if the detector's muon effective area is
$A^{\mu}_{\rm eff} \sim 10^{-2}\;{\rm km}^{2}$, or redshift $z \lesssim 0.15$,
if the muon effective area is $A^{\mu}_{\rm eff} \sim 1\;{\rm km}^{2}$.