In this paper some specific issues related to point defects in GaAs nanowires
are addressed with the help of density functional theory calculations. These
issues mainly arise from the growth of nanowires under conditions different
from those used for thin films or bulk GaAs, such as the co-existence of
zincblende and wurtzite polytypes, the use of gold particles as catalyst, and
the arsenic-limited growth regime. Hence, we carry out density-functional
calculations for As vacancies, Ga_As antisites, and Au impurities in ZB and WZ
GaAs crystals. Our results show that As vacancies can diffuse within in a ZB
GaAs crystal with migration barriers of ~1.9 eV. Within WZ GaAs, As vacancy
diffusion is found to be anisotropic, with low barriers of 1.60 up to 1.79 eV
(depending on doping conditions) in the ab-plane, while there are higher
barriers of 2.07 to 2.44 eV to diffuse along the c-axis. The formation energy
of Au impurities is found to be generally much lower than those of arsenic
vacancies or Ga_As antisites. Thus, Au impurities will be the dominant defects
formed in Au-catalyzed nanowire growth. Moreover, we find that it is
energetically more favorable by 1 to 2 eV for an Au impurity to replace a
lattice Ga atom than a lattice As atom in GaAs. An Au substitutional defect for
a lattice Ga atom in ZB GaAs is found to create a charge transfer level in the
lower half of the band gap. While our calculations locate this level at E_v +
0.22eV, taking into account the inaccuracy of the density functional that ought
to be corrected by a downshift of E_v by about 0.2eV results in good agreement
with the experimental result of E_v + 0.4eV.