We calculate the effects of finite density of isospin asymmetric strange
hadronic matter, for different strangeness fractions, on the in-medium
properties of vector $\left( D^{\ast}, D_{s}^{\ast}, B^{\ast},
B_{s}^{\ast}\right)$ and axial-vector $\left( D_{1}, D_{1s}, B_{1},
B_{1s}\right)$ mesons using chiral hadronic SU(3) model and QCD sum rules. We
focus on the evaluation of in-medium mass-shift and shift of decay constant of
above vector and axial vector mesons. In QCD sum rule approach the properties
e.g. masses and decay constants of vector and axial vector mesons are written
in terms of quark and gluon condensates. These quarks and gluon condensates are
evaluated in the present work using chiral SU(3) model through the medium
modification of scalar-isoscalar fields $\sigma$ and $\zeta$, the
scalar-isovector field
  $\delta$ and scalar dilaton field $\chi$ in strange hadronic medium which
includes both nucleons as well as hyperons. As we shall see in detail the
masses and decay constants of heavy vector and axial vector mesons are affected
significantly due to isospin asymmetry and strangeness fraction of the medium
and these modifications may influence the experimental observables produced in
heavy ion collision experiments. The results of present investigations of
in-medium properties of vector and axial-vector mesons at finite density of
strange hadronic medium may be helpful for understanding the experimental data
from heavy-ion collision experiments in-particular for the Compressed Baryonic
Matter (CBM) experiment of FAIR facility at GSI, Germany.