This is the first of two papers in which a study is made of a sample of 12
southern radio-luminous Seyfert galaxies. Our aim is to investigate possible
correlations between radio morphology and nuclear/circumnuclear emission-line
properties. In this paper we present radio images at 13, 6, and 3 cm taken with
the Australia Telescope Compact Array (ATCA), global far-infrared (FIR)
properties for the whole sample, and optical and near-infrared (NIR)
spectroscopy of an interesting subset. We find a mixture of radio morphologies,
including linear, diffuse and compact sources. When the FIR colors of the
galaxies are considered there is an indication that the compact radio sources
have warmer FIR colors than the diffuse sources, whereas the linear sources
span a wide range of FIR colors. There is a wide variation in radio
spectral-indices, suggesting that free-free absorption is significant in some
systems, particularly IRAS 11249-2859, NGC 4507, and NGC 7213. Detailed
emission-line studies are presented of 4 galaxies IC 3639, NGC 5135, NGC 3393 &
IRAS 11249-2859. In IC 3639 we present evidence of vigorous, compact star
formation enclosed by very extended [OI]6300 emission, suggestive of the
boundary between a diffuse outflow and the surrounding ISM. In another galaxy,
IC 5063, we see evidence for the possible interaction of a highly collimated
outflow and the surrounding rotating inner disk. Of the 5 galaxies which show
compact radio emission, 4 have radio/FIR flux ratios consistent with an
energetically dominant AGN, whereas IC 4995 exhibits evidence for a very
compact starburst.