we study the possibility of pulsar winds in the Galactic center (GC) to
produce the 511 keV line. We propose that there may exist three possible
scenarios of pulsar winds as the positron sources: normal pulsars; rapidly
spinning strongly magnetized neutron stars in GRB progenitors; a population of
millisecond pulsars in the Galactic center region. These $e^\pm$pairs could be
trapped in the region by the magnetic field in the GC, and cool through the
synchrotron radiation and Coulomb interactions with the medium. The cooling
timescales are lower than the diffuse timescale of positrons, so low energy
positrons could annihilate directly with electrons into 511 keV photons or form
positronium before annihilation. We find that normal pulsars cannot be a
significant contributor to the positron sources. Although magnetars in the GC
could be potential sources of positrons, their birth rate and birth locations
may impose some problems for this scenario. We believe that the most likely
candidate positron sources in the GC may be a population of millisecond pulsars
in the GC. Our preliminary estimations predict the e$^\pm$ annihilation rate in
the GC is $> 5\times 10^{42}$ s$^{-1}$. Therefore, the $e^\pm$ pairs from
pulsars winds can contribute significantly to the positron sources in the GC.
Furthermore, since the diffusion length of positrons is short, we predict that
the intensity distribution of the annihilation line should follow the
distribution of millisecond pulsars, which should correlate to the mass
distribution in the GC.