Using a model based on the rotational modulation of the visibility of active
regions, we analyse the high-accuracy CoRoT lightcurve of the active young star
CoRoT102899501. Spectroscopic follow-up observations are used to derive its
fundamental parameters. We compare its chromospheric activity level with a
model of chrosmospheric activity evolution established by combining
relationships between the R'HK index and the Rossby number with a recent model
of stellar rotation evolution on the main sequence. We measure the spot
coverage of the stellar surface as a function of time, and find evidence for a
tentative increase from 5-14% at the beginning of the observing run to 13-29%
35 days later. A high level of magnetic activity on CoRoT102899501 is
corroborated by a strong emission in the Balmer and Ca II HK lines (logR'HK ~
-4). The starspots used as tracers of the star rotation constrain the rotation
period to 1.625+/-0.002 days and do not show evidence for differential
rotation. The effective temperature (Teff=5180+/-80 K), surface gravity
(logg=4.35+/-0.1), and metallicity ([M/H]=0.05+/-0.07 dex) indicate that the
object is located near the evolutionary track of a 1.09+/-0.12 M_Sun pre-main
sequence star at an age of 23+/-10 Myrs. This value is consistent with the
"gyro-age" of about 8-25 Myrs, inferred using a parameterization of the stellar
rotation period as a function of colour index and time established for the
I-sequence of stars in stellar clusters. We conclude that the high magnetic
activity level and fast rotation of CoRoT102899501 are manifestations of its
stellar youth consistent with its estimated evolutionary status and with the
detection of a strong Li I 6707.8 A absorption line in its spectrum. We argue
that a magnetic activity level comparable to that observed on CoRoT102899501
could have been present on the Sun at the time of planet formation.