Spatial boundaries are a defining feature of a city's social and spatial
organization. Rivers, highways, and train tracks create excess distance between
nearby locations and often mark social separation -- they become dividing lines
that are well known to residents. Qualitative studies are rich with insight
about the local significance of boundaries, but they have been largely ignored
in the quantitative segregation literature. I advance existing scholarship by
integrating spatial boundaries into the way we measure residential segregation
for city populations. I introduce a new method that measures the proximity of
residential locations and the reach of local environments around each location
using road distance. This is more realistic than straight line ("as the crow
flies") distance, because it captures the connectivity of roads and the
distance imposed by physical boundaries. I measure segregation using the
Divergence Index, which evaluates how surprising the composition of each local
environment is given the overall population. I use this new approach to examine
how spatial boundaries structure patterns of racial and ethnic residential
segregation in U.S. cities. Results reveal the salience of city boundaries in
structuring segregation patterns in Detroit, and how the presence of physical
boundaries affects the composition of local environments in Manhattan. Further,
the experience of segregation is highly unequal within cities such as St.
Louis. Some residents live in completely segregated environments, while others
live in areas that are a microcosm of the city's diverse population. This
research bridges qualitative insight on the local experience of segregation and
how we measure segregation for city populations. My emphasis on spatial
boundaries and local context reframes our understanding of segregation, and
offers deeper insight into even the most studied U.S. cities.