In Keck HIRES spectra of 9 QSOs we identify a sample of 908 CIV absorber
components in 188 systems outside the Lyman forest in the redshift range 1.6 <
z < 4.4, with related lines of SiIV, CII, SiII and NV. The properties of the
CIV absorbers are almost constant with z. We find a mild increase in Omega(CIV)
with decreasing z with a mean = (3.8+/-0.7)*10^(-8) (spatially flat LCDM
cosmology and h = 0.71). Using Omega(b) from the CMB and ionization fractions
from our data we obtain [C/H]_(z = 4.0) >/= -3.11(+0.14/-0.19) and [C/H]_(z =
2.1) >/= -2.64(+0.15/-0.22), suggesting a rise by about a factor 3. Relating
Omega(H) more directly to regions containing the absorbers our values become >~
-2.2 and >~ -2.0, respectively. CIV components exhibit strong clustering at
Delta(v) < 300 km/s but there is no clustering on any scale between systems. We
argue that for our sample the CIV clustering is entirely due to the peculiar
velocities of gas present in the outer extensions of galaxies. We find no
change with z in the median column density ratio SiIV/CIV, contrary to previous
observations; other ionic ratios vary continuously with redshift. We show that
these are only partial indicators of ionization state and remedy this by use of
specific pairs of ratios. We demonstrate that the majority of absorbers are
photoionized and find that at z < 2.65 QSOs dominate the ionization whereas at
z > 3.4 an additional, dominant contribution from galaxies with specific
spectral characteristics and high radiative escape fraction in the range 1-4
Ryd is required. These results also indicate that [Si/C] = 0.0-0.4 fits the
data well. We conclude that the heavy element absorbers at z > 3.4 are located
close to galaxies and irradiated dominantly by them, consistent with our
independent conclusion from clustering properties.