We consider a novel class of hard branching hadronic processes a+b->c+d+e,
where hadrons c and d have large and nearly opposite transverse momenta and
large invariant energy which is a finite fraction of the total invariant
energy. We use color transparency logic to argue that these processes can be
used to study quark generalized parton distributions (GPDs) for baryons and
mesons in hadron collisions hence complementing and adding to the studies of
GPDs in the exclusive DIS (deep inelastic scattering) processes. We propose
that a number of GPDs can be investigated in hadron facilities such as J-PARC
(Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex) facility and GSI-FAIR (Gesellschaft
fur Schwerionenforschung -Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research) project. In
this work, the GPDs for the nucleon and for the N->Delta transition are studied
in the reaction N+N->N+pi+B, where N, pi, and B are a nucleon, a pion, and a
baryon (nucleon or Delta), respectively, with a large momentum transfer between
B (or pi) and the incident nucleon. In particular, the
Efremov-Radyushkin-Brodsky-Lepage (ERBL) region of the GPDs can be measured in
such exclusive reactions. We estimate the cross section of the processes
N+N->N+pi+B by using current models for relevant GPDs and information about
large angle pi N reactions. We find that it will be feasible to measure these
cross sections at the high-energy hadron facilities, and get novel information
about the nucleon structure, for example, contributions of quark orbital
angular momenta to the nucleon spin. The studies of N->Delta transition GPDs
could be valuable also for investigating electromagnetic properties of the
transition.