The next generation of telescopes and instruments are facilitating our
understanding of the Universe by producing data at a pace that beats all
projections, and astronomers today are left in the face of an avalanche of data
like never before. In order to cope with this problem and come up with a
reliable and innovative solution, Data Centers were created in various
locations and the concept of Virtual Observatories elaborated. Based at the
National Taiwan Normal University, the Taiwan Extragalactic Astronomical Data
Center plan to join in global efforts by proposing 1Pb of data storage
dedicated to extragalactic astronomy by 2015. In continuation with individual
efforts in Taiwan over the past few years, this is the first stepping-stone
towards the building of a National Virtual Observatory. Besides the common
functionalities generally provided by data centers, our goal is to propose
"on-the-fly" photometry measurements from publicly available surveys: a unique
way for cross-matching information. Also we will propose access to raw and
reducible data available from archives worldwide, a goldmine of under-exploited
information. Finally, we will propose our own specific analysis tools available
on-line through a user-friendly interface. Purchased very recently, the current
Data Storage Unit is capable of accumulating up to 50Tb of data. In the first
phase, we will focus on multiband catalog cross-matching and make the latest
extragalactic datasets available to the world- wide community, which should be
fully functional in 2011.