ABRIDGED: NGC5253 was previously studied by our group with the aim to
elucidate in detail the starburst interaction processes. Some open issues
regarding the 2D structure of the main properties of the ionized gas remain to
be addressed. Using IFS data obtained with FLAMES, we derived 2D maps for
different tracers of electron density (n_e), electron temperature (T_e) and
ionization degree. The maps for n_e as traced by several line ratios are
compatible with a 3D stratified view of the nebula with the highest n_e in the
innermost layers and a decrease of n_e outwards. To our knowledge, this is the
first time that a T_e map based on [SII] lines for an extragalactic object is
presented. The joint interpretation of our two T_e maps is consistent with a
T_e structure in 3D with higher temperatures close to the main ionizing source
surrounded by a colder and more diffuse component. The highest ionization
degree is found at the peak of emission for the gas with relatively high
ionization in the main GHIIR and lower ionization degree delineating the more
extended diffuse component. Abundances for O, Ne and Ar are constant over the
mapped area within <0.1 dex. The mean 12+log(O/H) is 8.26 while the relative
abundances of log(N/O), log(Ne/O) and log(Ar/O) were \sim-1.32, -0.65 and
-2.33, respectively. There are two locations with enhanced N/O. The first
(log(N/O)\sim-0.95) is associated to two super star clusters. The second
(log(N/O)\sim-1.17), reported here for the first time, is associated to two
moderately massive (2-4x10^4 M_sun) and relatively old (\sim10 Myr) clusters. A
comparison of the N/O map with those produced by strong line methods supports
the use of N2O2 over N2S2 in the search for chemical inhomogeneities within a
galaxy. The results on the localized nitrogen enhancement were used to compile
and discuss the factors that affect the complex relationship between Wolf-Rayet
stars and N/O excess.