Gene duplication is believed to play a major role in the evolution of genomic
complexity. The presence of a duplicate removes the constraint of natural
selection upon the gene, leading to its likely loss of function or,
occasionally, the gain of a novel one. Alternately, a pleiotropic gene might
partition its functions among its duplicates, thus preserving both copies.
Duplicate genes is not a novelty for diploid genotypes, but only for
haplotypes. In this paper, we study the consequences of regulatory interactions
in diploid genotypes and explore how the context of allelic interactions gives
rise to dynamical phenotypes that enable duplicate genes to spread in a
population. The regulatory network we study is that of a single autoregulatory
activator gene, and the two copies of the gene diverge either as alleles in a
diploid species or as duplicates in haploids. These differences are in their
transcriptional ability -- either via alterations to its activating domain, or
to its cis-regulatory binding repertoire. When cis-regulatory changes are
introduced that partition multiple regulatory triggers among the duplicates, it
is shown that mutually exclusive expression states of the duplicates that
emerge are accompanied by a back-up facility: when a highly expressed gene is
deleted, the previously unexpressed duplicate copy compensates for it. The
diploid version of the regulatory network model can account for allele-specific
expression variants, and a model of inheritance of the haplotype network
enables us to trace the evolutionary consequence of heterozygous phenotypes.
This is modelled for the variations in the activating domain of one copy,
whereby stable as well as transiently bursting oscillations ensue in single
cells. The evolutionary model shows that these phenotypic states accessible to
a diploid, heterozygous genotype enable the spread of a duplicated haplotype.