We present a near- to mid-infrared point source catalog of 5 photometric
bands at 3.2, 7, 11, 15 and 24 um for a 10 deg2 area of the Large Magellanic
Cloud (LMC) obtained with the Infrared Camera (IRC) onboard the AKARI
satellite. To cover the survey area the observations were carried out at 3
separate seasons from 2006 May to June, 2006 October to December, and 2007
March to July.
  The 10-sigma limiting magnitudes of the present survey are 17.9, 13.8, 12.4,
9.9, and 8.6 mag at 3.2, 7, 11, 15 and 24 um, respectively. The photometric
accuracy is estimated to be about 0.1 mag at 3.2 um and 0.06--0.07 mag in the
other bands. The position accuracy is 0.3" at 3.2, 7 and 11um and 1.0" at 15
and 24 um. The sensitivities at 3.2, 7, and 24 um are roughly comparable to
those of the Spitzer SAGE LMC point source catalog, while the AKARI catalog
provides the data at 11 and 15 um, covering the mid-infrared spectral range
contiguously. Two types of catalog are provided: a Catalog and an Archive. The
Archive contains all the detected sources, while the Catalog only includes the
sources that have a counterpart in the Spitzer SAGE point source catalog. The
Archive contains about 650,000, 140,000, 97,000, 43,000, and 52,000 sources at
3.2, 7, 11, 15, and 24 um, respectively. Based on the catalog, we discuss the
luminosity functions at each band, the color-color diagram, and the
color-magnitude diagram using the 3.2, 7, and 11 um band data. Stars without
circumstellar envelopes, dusty C-rich and O-rich stars, young stellar objects,
and background galaxies are located at distinct regions in the diagrams,
suggesting that the present catalog is useful for the classification of objects
towards the LMC.