The cortex is composed of large-scale cell assemblies sharing the same
individual properties and receiving the same input, in charge of certain
functions, and subject to noise. Such assemblies are characterized by specific
space locations and space-dependent delayed interactions. The mean-field
equations for such systems were rigorously derived in a recent paper for
general models, under mild assumptions on the network, using probabilistic
methods. We summarize and investigate general implications of this result. We
then address the dynamics of these stochastic neural field equations in the
case of firing-rate neurons. This is a unique case where the very complex
stochastic mean-field equations exactly reduce to a set of delayed differential
or integro-differential equations on the two first moments of the solutions,
this reduction being possible due to the Gaussian nature of the solutions. The
obtained equations differ from more customary approaches in that it
incorporates intrinsic noise levels nonlinearly and make explicit the
interaction between the mean activity and its correlations. We analyze the
dynamics of these equations, with a particular focus on the influence of noise
levels on shaping the collective response of neural assemblies and brain
states. Cascades of Hopf bifurcations are observed as a function of noise
amplitude, for noise levels small enough, and delays, in a finite-population
system. The presence of spatially homogeneous solutions in law is discussed in
different non-delayed neural fields and an instability, as noise amplitude is
varied, of the homogeneous state, is found. In these regimes, very complex
irregular and structured spatio-temporal patterns of activity are exhibited
including in particular wave or bump splitting.