The Twisted Stacked-Tape Cable (TSTC) is one of the major high temperature
superconductor cable concepts combining scalability, ease of fabrication and
high current density making it a possible candidate as conductor for large
scale magnets. To simulate the boundary conditions of such a magnets as well as
the temperature dependence of Twisted Stacked-Tape Cables a 1.16 m long sample
consisting of 40, 4 mm wide SuperPower REBCO tapes is characterized using the
"FBI" (force - field - current) superconductor test facility of the Institute
for Technical Physics (ITEP) of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT). In
a first step, the magnetic background field is cycled while measuring the
current carrying capabilities to determine the impact of Lorentz forces on the
TSTC sample performance. In the first field cycle, the critical current of the
TSTC sample is tested up to 12 T. A significant Lorentz force of up to 65.6
kN/m at the maximal magnetic background field of 12 T result in a 11.8 %
irreversible degradation of the current carrying capabilities. The degradation
saturates (critical cable current of 5.46 kA at 4.2 K and 12 T background
field) and does not increase in following field cycles. In a second step, the
sample is characterized at different background fields (4-12 T) and surface
temperatures (4.2-37.8 K) utilizing the variable temperature insert of the
"FBI" test facility. In a third step, the performance along the length of the
sample is determined at 77 K, self-field. A 15 % degradation is obtained for
the central part of the sample which was within the high field region of the
magnet during the in-field measurements.