We present derived stellar and disc parameters for a sample of Taurus brown
dwarfs both with and without evidence of an associated disc. These parameters
have been derived using an online fitting tool
(http://bd-server.astro.ex.ac.uk/), which includes a statistically robust
derivation of uncertainties, an indication of pa- rameter degeneracies, and a
complete treatment of the input photometric and spectroscopic observations. The
observations of the Taurus members with indications of disc presence have been
fitted using a grid of theoretical models including detailed treatments of
physical processes accepted for higher mass stars, such as dust sublimation,
and a simple treatment of the accretion flux. This grid of models has been
designed to test the validity of the adopted physical mechanisms, but we have
also constructed models using parameterisation, for example semi-empirical dust
sublimation radii, for users solely interested in parameter derivation and the
quality of the fit. The parameters derived for the naked and disc brown dwarf
systems are largely consistent with literature observations. However, our inner
disc edge locations are consistently closer to the star than previous results
and we also derive elevated accretion rates over non-SED based accretion rate
derivations. For inner edge locations we attribute these differences to the
detailed modelling we have performed of the disc structure, particularly at the
crucial inner edge where departures in geometry from the often adopted vertical
wall due to dust sublimation (and therefore accretion flux) can compensate for
temperature (and therefore distance) changes to the inner edge of the dust
disc. In the case of the elevated derived accretion rates, in some cases, this
may be caused by the intrinsic stellar luminosities of the targets exceeding
that predicted by the isochrones we have adopted.