We explore the accretion mechanisms in EX Lupi, prototype of EXor variables,
during its quiescence and outburst phases. We analyse high-resolution optical
spectra taken before, during, and after its 2008 outburst. In quiescence and
outburst, the star presents many permitted emission lines, including typical
CTTS lines and numerous neutral and ionized metallic lines. During the
outburst, the number of emission lines increases to over a thousand, with
narrow plus broad component structure (NC+BC). The BC profile is highly
variable on short timescales (24-72h). An active chromosphere can explain the
metallic lines in quiescence and the outburst NC. The dynamics of the BC line
profiles suggest an origin in a hot, dense, non-axisymmetric, and non-uniform
accretion column that suffers velocity variations along the line-of-sight on
timescales of days. Assuming Keplerian rotation, the emitting region would be
located at ~0.1-0.2 AU, consistent with the inner disk rim, but the velocity
profiles of the lines reveal a combination of rotation and infall. Line ratios
of ions and neutrals can be reproduced with a temperature of T~6500 K for
electron densities of a few times 10$^{12}$cm$^{-3}$ in the line-emitting
region. The data confirm that the 2008 outburst was an episode of increased
accretion, albeit much stronger than previous EX Lupi and typical EXors
outbursts. The line profiles are consistent with the infall/rotation of a
non-axisymmetric structure that could be produced by clumpy accretion during
the outburst phase. A strong inner disk wind appears in the epochs of higher
accretion. The rapid recovery of the system after the outburst and the
similarity between the pre-outburst and post-outburst states suggest that the
accretion channels are similar during the whole period, and only the accretion
rate varies, providing a superb environment for studying the accretion
processes.