We present stereoscopic reconstructions of the location and inclination of
polar plumes of two data sets based on the two simultaneously recorded images
taken by the EUVI telescopes in the SECCHI instrument package onboard the
\emph{STEREO (Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory)} spacecraft. The ten
plumes investigated show a superradial expansion in the coronal hole in 3D
which is consistent with the 2D results. Their deviations from the local
meridian planes are rather small with an average of $6.47^{\circ}$. By
comparing the reconstructed plumes with a dipole field with its axis along the
solar rotation axis, it is found that plumes are inclined more horizontally
than the dipole field. The lower the latitude is, the larger is the deviation
from the dipole field. The relationship between plumes and bright points has
been investigated and they are not always associated. For the first data set,
based on the 3D height of plumes and the electron density derived from
SUMER/\emph{SOHO} Si {\sc viii} line pair, we found that electron densities
along the plumes decrease with height above the solar surface. The temperature
obtained from the density scale height is 1.6 to 1.8 times larger than the
temperature obtained from Mg {\sc ix} line ratios. We attribute this
discrepancy to a deviation of the electron and the ion temperatures. Finally,
we have found that the outflow speeds studied in the O {\sc vi} line in the
plumes corrected by the angle between the line of sight and the plume
orientation are quite small with a maximum of 10 $\mathrm{km s^{-1}}$. It is
unlikely that plumes are a dominant contributor to the fast solar wind.