The Burst and Transient Source Experiment (BATSE), aboard the Compton Gamma
Ray Observatory (CGRO), provided a record of the low-energy gamma-ray sky
(20-1000 keV) between 1991 April and 2000 May (9.1y). Using the Earth
Occultation Technique to extract flux information, a catalog of sources using
data from the BATSE large area detectors has been prepared. The first part of
the catalog consists of results from the monitoring of 58 sources, mostly
Galactic. For these sources, we have included tables of flux and spectral data,
and outburst times for transients. Light curves (or flux histories) have been
placed on the world wide web. We then performed a deep-sampling of 179 objects
(including the aforementioned 58 objects) combining data from the entire 9.1y
BATSE dataset. Source types considered were primarily accreting binaries, but a
small number of representative active galaxies, X-ray-emitting stars, and
supernova remnants were also included. The deep sample results include definite
detections of 83 objects and possible detections of 36 additional objects. The
definite detections spanned three classes of sources: accreting black hole and
neutron star binaries, active galaxies and supernova remnants. Flux data for
the deep sample are presented in four energy bands: 20-40, 40-70, 70-160, and
160-430 keV. The limiting average flux level (9.1 y) for the sample varies from
3.5 to 20 mCrab (5 sigma) between 20 and 430 keV, depending on systematic
error, which in turn is primarily dependent on the sky location. To strengthen
the credibility of detection of weaker sources (5-25 mCrab), we generated Earth
occultation images, searched for periodic behavior using FFT and epoch folding
methods, and critically evaluated the energy-dependent emission in the four
flux bands.