BD+6073 is the optical counterpart of the X-ray source IGR J00370+6122, a
probable accretion-powered X-ray pulsar. The X-ray light curve of this binary
system shows clear periodicity at 15.7 d, which has been interpreted as
repeated outbursts around the periastron of an eccentric orbit. We obtained
high-resolution spectra of BD+6073 at different epochs. We used the FASTWind
code to generate a stellar atmosphere model to fit the observed spectrum and
obtain physical magnitudes. The synthetic spectrum was used as a template for
cross-correlation with the observed spectra to measure radial velocities. The
radial velocity curve provided an orbital solution for the system. We have also
analysed the RXTE/ASM and Swift/BAT light curves to confirm the stability of
the periodicity. BD +6073 is a BN0.7 Ib low-luminosity supergiant located at an
approximate distance of 3.1 kpc, in the CasOB4 association. We derive
Teff=24000 K and log gc=3.0, and chemical abundances consistent with a
moderately high level of evolution. The spectroscopic and evolutionary masses
are consistent at the 1 sigma level with a mass of 15 solar masses. The
recurrence time of the X-ray flares is the orbital period of the system. The NS
is in a high eccentricity (e=0.56) orbit, and the X-ray emission is strongly
peaked around orbital phase 0.2, though the observations are consistent with
some level of X-ray activity happening at all orbital phases. The X-ray
behaviour of IGR J00370+6122 is reminiscent of intermediate SFXTs, though its
peak luminosity is rather low. The orbit is somewhat wider than those of
classical persistent supergiant X-ray binaries, which, combined with the low
luminosity of the mass donor, explains the low X-ray luminosity. IGR
J00370+6122 will likely evolve towards a persistent supergiant system,
highlighting the evolutionary connection between different classes of
wind-accreting X-ray sources.