Two-dimensional spectra of Supernova 1987A were obtained on 1998 November
14-15 (4282 days after outburst) with the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph
(STIS) on board the Hubble Space Telescope (HST). The slit sampled portions of
the inner circumstellar ring at the east and west ansae as well as small
sections of both the northern and southern outer rings. The temperature and
density at these locations are estimated by nebular analysis of [N II], [O
III], and [S II] emission line ratios, and with time-dependent
photoionization/recombination models. The results from these two methods are
mutually consistent. The electron density in the inner ring is ~ 4000 cm-3 for
S II, with progressively lower densities for N II and O III. The electron
temperatures determined from [N II] and [O III] line ratios are ~11,000 K and
\~22,000 K, respectively. These results are consistent with evolutionary trends
in the circumstellar gas from similar measurements at earlier epochs. We find
that emission lines from the outer rings come from gas of lower density (n_e
\la 2000 cm-3) than that which emits the same line in the inner ring. The N/O
ratio appears to be the same in all three rings. Our results also suggest that
the CNO abundances in the northern outer ring are the same as in the inner
ring, contrary to earlier results of Panagia et al. (1996). Physical conditions
in the southern outer ring are less certain because of poorer signal-to-noise
data. The STIS spectra also reveal a weak Ha emission redshifted by ~100 km s-1
at p.a. 103\arcdeg that coincides with the recently discovered new regions that
are brightening (Lawrence et al. 2000). This indicates that the shock
interaction in the SE section of the inner ring commenced over a year before it
became apparent in HST images.