Due to the finite size effects, the localisation of the phase transition in
finite systems and the determination of its order, become an extremely
difficult task, even in the simplest known cases. In order to identify and
locate the finite volume transition point $T_{0}(V)$ of the QCD deconfinement
phase transition to a Colorless QGP, we have developed a new approach using the
finite size cumulant expansion of the order parameter and the $L_{mn}$-method.
The first six cumulants $C_{1,2,3,4,5,6}$ with the corresponding
under-normalized ratios(skewness $\Sigma$, kurtosis $\kappa$ ,pentosis
$\Pi_{\pm}$ and hexosis $\mathcal{H}_{1,2,3}$) and three unnormalized
combinations of them ($\mathcal{O}={\mathcal{\sigma }^{2} \mathcal{\kappa }
}{\mathbf{\Sigma }^{-1} }$, $\mathcal{U} ={\mathcal{\sigma }^{-2}
\mathbf{\Sigma }^{-1} }$, $\mathcal{N} = \mathcal{\sigma }^{2} \mathcal{\kappa
}$) are calculated and studied as functions of $(T,V)$. A new approach,
unifying in a clear and consistent way the definitions of cumulant ratios, is
proposed. A numerical FSS analysis of the obtained results has allowed us to
locate accurately the finite volume transition point. The extracted transition
temperature value $T_{0}(V)$ agrees with that expected $T_{0}^{N}(V)$ from the
order parameter and the thermal susceptibility $\chi _{T}\left( T,V\right)$,
according to the standard procedure of localization to within about $2\%$. In
addition to this, a very good correlation factor is obtained proving the
validity of our cumulants method. The agreement of our results with those
obtained by means of other models is remarkable.