A sample of 178 extragalactic objects is defined by correlating the 60 micron
IRAS FSC with the 5 GHz PMN catalog. Of these, 98 objects lie above the
radio/far-infrared relation for radio-quiet objects. These radio-excess
galaxies and quasars have a uniform distribution of radio excesses and appear
to be a new population of active galaxies not present in previous
radio/far-infrared samples. The radio-excess objects extend over the full range
of far-infrared luminosities seen in extragalactic objects. Objects with small
radio excesses are more likely to have far-infrared colors similar to
starbursts, while objects with large radio excesses have far-infrared colors
typical of pure AGN. Some of the most far-infrared luminous radio-excess
objects have the highest far-infrared optical depths. These are good candidates
to search for hidden broad line regions in polarized light or via near-infrared
spectroscopy. Some low far-infrared luminosity radio-excess objects appear to
derive a dominant fraction of their far-infrared emission from star formation,
despite the dominance of the AGN at radio wavelengths. Many of the radio-excess
objects have sizes likely to be smaller than the optical host, but show
optically thin radio emission. We draw parallels between these objects and high
radio luminosity Compact Steep-Spectrum (CSS) and GigaHertz Peaked-Spectrum
(GPS) objects. Radio sources with these characteristics may be young AGN in
which the radio activity has begun only recently. Alternatively, high central
densities in the host galaxies may be confining the radio sources to compact
sizes. We discuss future observations required to distinguish between these
possibilities and determine the nature of radio-excess objects.