Dawn is the first NASA mission to operate in the vicinity of the two most
massive asteroids in the main belt, Ceres and Vesta. This double-rendezvous
mission is enabled by the use of low-thrust solar electric propulsion. Dawn
will arrive at Vesta in 2011 and will operate in its vicinity for approximately
one year. Vesta's mass and non-spherical shape, coupled with its rotational
period, presents very interesting challenges to a spacecraft that depends
principally upon low-thrust propulsion for trajectory-changing maneuvers. The
details of Vesta's high-order gravitational terms will not be determined until
after Dawn's arrival at Vesta, but it is clear that their effect on Dawn
operations creates the most complex operational environment for a NASA mission
to date. Gravitational perturbations give rise to oscillations in Dawn's
orbital radius, and it is found that trapping of the spacecraft is possible
near the 1:1 resonance between Dawn's orbital period and Vesta's rotational
period, located approximately between 520 and 580 km orbital radius.This
resonant trapping can be escaped by thrusting at the appropriate orbital phase.
Having passed through the 1:1 resonance, gravitational perturbations ultimately
limit the minimum radius for low-altitude operations to about 400 km,in order
to safely prevent surface impact. The lowest practical orbit is desirable in
order to maximize signal-to-noise and spatial resolution of the Gamma-Ray and
Neutron Detector and to provide the highest spatial resolution observations by
Dawn's Framing Camera and Visible InfraRed mapping spectrometer. Dawn dynamical
behavior is modeled in the context of a wide range of Vesta gravity models.
Many of these models are distinguishable during Dawn's High Altitude Mapping
Orbit and the remainder are resolved during Dawn's Low Altitude Mapping Orbit,
providing insight into Vesta's interior structure.