Neutral hydrogen VLA D-array observations of the dwarf irregular galaxy HoII,
a prototype galaxy for studies of shell formation, are presented. HI is
detected to radii over 16' or 4 R_25, and M_HI=6.44x10^8 M_sun. The total HI
map has a comet-like appearance suggesting that HoII is affected by ram
pressure from an intragroup medium (IGM). A rotation curve corrected for
asymmetric drift was derived and an analysis of the mass distribution yields a
total mass 6.3x10^9 M_sun, of which about 80% is dark. HoII lies northeast of
the M81 group's core, along with Kar52 (M81dwA) and UGC4483. No signs of
interaction are observed and it is argued that HoII is part of the NGC2403
subgroup, infalling towards M81. A case is made for ram pressure stripping and
an IGM in the M81 group. Stripping of the disk outer parts would require an IGM
density n_IGM>=4.0x10^-6 atoms/cm^3 at the location of HoII. This corresponds
to 1% of the virial mass of the group uniformly distributed over a volume just
enclosing HoII and is consistent with the X-ray properties of small groups. It
is argued that existing observations of HoII do not support self-propagating
star formation scenarios, whereby the HI holes and shells are created by
supernova explosions and stellar winds. Many HI holes are located in low
surface density regions of the disk, where no star formation is expected or
observed. Ram pressure has the capacity to enlarge preexisting holes and lower
their creation energies, helping to bridge the gap between the observed star
formation rate and that required to create the holes. (abridged)