To investigate the finite time singularity in three-dimensional (3D) Euler
flows, the simplified model of 3D axisymmetric incompressible fluids (i.e.,
two-dimensional Boussinesq approximation equations) is studied numerically. The
system describes a cap-like hot zone of fluid rising from the bottom, while the
edges of the cap lag behind, forming eye-like vortices. The hot liquid is
driven by the buoyancy and meanwhile attracted by the vortices, which leads to
the singularity-forming mechanism in our simulation. In the previous 2D
Boussinesq simulations, the symmetricial initial data is used. However, it is
observed that the adoption of symmetry leads to coordinate singularity.
Moreover, as demonstrated in this work that the locations of peak values for
the vorticity and the temperature gradient becomes far apart as $t$ approaches
the predicted blow-up time. This suggests that the symmetry assumption may be
unreasonable for searching solution blow-ups. One of the main contributions of
this work is to propose an appropriate asymmetric initial condition, which
avoids coordinate singularity and also makes the blow-up to occur much earlier
than that given by the previously simulations. The shorter simulation time
suppresses the development of the round-off error. On the numerical side, the
pseudo-spectral method with filtering technique is adopted. The resolutions
adopted in this study vary from $1024^2$, $2048^2$, $4096^2$ to $6144^2$. With
our proposed asymmetric initial condition, it is shown that the $4096^2$ and
$6144^2$ runs yield convergent results when $t$ is fairly close to the
predicted blow-up time. Moreover, as expected the locations of peak values for
the vorticity and the temperature gradient are very close to each other as $t$
approaches the predicted blow-up time.