The Sloan Digital Sky Survey Reverberation Mapping project (SDSS-RM) is a
dedicated multi-object RM experiment that has spectroscopically monitored a
sample of 849 broad-line quasars in a single 7 deg$^2$ field with the SDSS-III
BOSS spectrograph. The RM quasar sample is flux-limited to i_psf=21.7 mag, and
covers a redshift range of 0.1<z<4.5. Optical spectroscopy was performed during
2014 Jan-Jul dark/grey time, with an average cadence of ~4 days, totaling more
than 30 epochs. Supporting photometric monitoring in the g and i bands was
conducted at multiple facilities including the CFHT and the Steward Observatory
Bok telescopes in 2014, with a cadence of ~2 days and covering all lunar
phases. The RM field (RA, DEC=14:14:49.00, +53:05:00.0) lies within the CFHT-LS
W3 field, and coincides with the Pan-STARRS 1 (PS1) Medium Deep Field MD07,
with three prior years of multi-band PS1 light curves. The SDSS-RM 6-month
baseline program aims to detect time lags between the quasar continuum and
broad line region (BLR) variability on timescales of up to several months (in
the observed frame) for ~10% of the sample, and to anchor the time baseline for
continued monitoring in the future to detect lags on longer timescales and at
higher redshift. SDSS-RM is the first major program to systematically explore
the potential of RM for broad-line quasars at z>0.3, and will investigate the
prospects of RM with all major broad lines covered in optical spectroscopy.
SDSS-RM will provide guidance on future multi-object RM campaigns on larger
scales, and is aiming to deliver more than tens of BLR lag detections for a
homogeneous sample of quasars. We describe the motivation, design and
implementation of this program, and outline the science impact expected from
the resulting data for RM and general quasar science.