As part of an ongoing search for dwarf elliptical galaxies (dE) in the
vicinity of the Local Group, we acquired deep B and R-band images for five dE
candidates identified in the Sculptor (Scl) group region. We carried out a
surface brightness fluctuation (SBF) analysis on the R-band images to measure
the apparent fluctuation magnitude \bar{m}_R for each dE. Using predictions
from stellar population synthesis models the galaxy distances were determined.
All of these dE candidates turned out to be satellites of Scl group major
members. A redshift measurement of the dE candidate ESO294-010 yielded an
independent confirmation of its group membership: the [OIII] and H$_\alpha$
emission lines from a small HII region gave a heliocentric velocity of 117(\pm
5) km s-1, in close agreement with the velocity of its parent galaxy NGC 55
(v_\odot=125 km s-1). The precision of the SBF distances (5 to 10%) contributes
to delineating the cigar-like distribution of the Scl group members, which
extend over distances from 1.7 to 4.4 Mpc and are concentrated in three,
possibly four subclumps. The Hubble diagram for nine Scl galaxies, including
two of our dEs, exhibits a tight linear velocity--distance relation with a
steep slope of 119 km s-1 Mpc-1. The results indicate that gravitational
interaction among the Scl group members plays only a minor role in the dynamics
of the group. However, the Hubble flow of the entire system appears strongly
disturbed by the large masses of our Galaxy and M31 leading to the observed
shearing motion. From the distances and velocities of 49 galaxies located in
the Local Group and towards the Scl group, we illustrate the continuity of the
galaxy distribution which strongly supports the view that the two groups form a
single supergalactic structure.