In this paper, we present a multi-wavelength analysis of an eruptive
white-light M3.2 flare which occurred in active region NOAA 10486 on November
1, 2003. Excellent set of high resolution observations made by RHESSI and TRACE
provide clear evidence of significant pre-flare activities for ~9 minutes in
the form of an initiation phase observed at EUV/UV wavelengths followed by the
X-ray precursor phase. During the initiation phase, we observed localized
brightenings in the highly sheared core region close to the filament and
interactions among short EUV loops overlying the filament which led to the
opening of magnetic field lines. The X-ray precursor phase is manifested in
RHESSI measurements below ~30 keV and coincided with the beginning of flux
emergence at the flaring location along with early signatures of the eruption.
From the RHESSI observations, we conclude that both plasma heating and electron
acceleration occurred during the precursor phase. The main flare is consistent
with the standard flare model. However, after the impulsive phase, intense HXR
looptop source was observed without significant footpoint emission. More
intriguingly, for a brief period the looptop source exhibited strong HXR
emission with energies up to 100 keV and significant non-thermal
characteristics. The present study indicates a causal relation between the
activities in the preflare and main flare. We also conclude that pre-flare
activities, occurred in the form of subtle magnetic reorganization along with
localized magnetic reconnection, played a crucial role in destabilizing the
active region filament leading to solar eruptive flare and associated
large-scale phenomena.