Upcoming facilities such as the Herschel Space Observatory or ALMA will
deliver a wealth of molecular line observations of young stellar objects
(YSOs). Based on line fluxes, chemical abundances can then be estimated by
radiative transfer calculations. To derive physical properties from abundances,
the chemical network needs to be modeled and fitted to the observations. This
modeling process is however computationally exceedingly demanding, particularly
if in addition to density and temperature, far UV (FUV) irradiation, X-rays,
and multi-dimensional geometry have to be considered.
  We develop a fast tool, suitable for various applications of chemical
modeling in YSOs. A grid of the chemical composition of the gas having a
density, temperature, FUV irradiation and X-ray flux is pre-calculated as a
function of time. A specific interpolation approach is developed to reduce the
database to a feasible size. Published models of AFGL 2591 are used to verify
the accuracy of the method. A second benchmark test is carried out for FUV
sensitive molecules. The novel method for chemical modeling is more than
250,000 times faster than direct modeling and agrees within a mean factor of
1.35. The tool is distributed for public use.
  In the course of devloping the method, the chemical evolution is explored: We
find that X-ray chemistry in envelopes of YSOs can be reproduced by means of an
enhanced cosmic-ray ionization rate. We further find that the abundance of CH+
in low-density gas with high ionization can be enhanced by the recombination of
doubly ionized carbon (C++) and suggest a new value for the initial abundance
of the main sulphur carrier in the hot-core.