We report on a detailed investigation of the high-energy gamma-ray emission
from NGC\,1275, a well-known radio galaxy hosted by a giant elliptical located
at the center of the nearby Perseus cluster. With the increased photon
statistics, the center of the gamma-ray emitting region is now measured to be
separated by only 0.46' from the nucleus of NGC1275, well within the 95%
confidence error circle with radius ~1.5'. Early Fermi-LAT observations
revealed a significant decade-timescale brightening of NGC1275 at GeV photon
energies, with a flux about seven times higher than the one implied by the
upper limit from previous EGRET observations. With the accumulation of one-year
of Fermi-LAT all-sky-survey exposure, we now detect flux and spectral
variations of this source on month timescales, as reported in this paper. The
average >100 MeV gamma-ray spectrum of NGC1275 shows a possible deviation from
a simple power-law shape, indicating a spectral cut-off around an observed
photon energy of E = 42.2+-19.6 GeV, with an average flux of F = (2.31+-0.13) X
10^{-7} ph/cm^2/s and a power-law photon index, Gamma = 2.13+-0.02. The largest
gamma-ray flaring event was observed in April--May 2009 and was accompanied by
significant spectral variability above E > 1-2 GeV. The gamma-ray activity of
NGC1275 during this flare can be described by a hysteresis behavior in the flux
versus photon index plane. The highest energy photon associated with the
gamma-ray source was detected at the very end of the observation, with the
observed energy of E = 67.4GeV and an angular separation of about 2.4' from the
nucleus. In this paper we present the details of the Fermi-LAT data analysis,
and briefly discuss the implications of the observed gamma-ray spectral
evolution of NGC1275 in the context of gamma-ray blazar sources in general.