We explore the detailed and broad properties of carbon burning in Super
Asymptotic Giant Branch (SAGB) stars with 2755 MESA stellar evolution models.
The location of first carbon ignition, quenching location of the carbon burning
flames and flashes, angular frequency of the carbon core, and carbon core mass
are studied as a function of the ZAMS mass, initial rotation rate, and mixing
parameters such as convective overshoot, semiconvection, thermohaline and
angular momentum transport. In general terms, we find these properties of
carbon burning in SAGB models are not a strong function of the initial rotation
profile, but are a sensitive function of the overshoot parameter. We
quasi-analytically derive an approximate ignition density, $\rho_{ign} \approx
2.1 \times 10^6$ g cm$^{-3}$, to predict the location of first carbon ignition
in models that ignite carbon off-center. We also find that overshoot moves the
ZAMS mass boundaries where off-center carbon ignition occurs at a nearly
uniform rate of $\Delta M_{\rm ZAMS}$/$\Delta f_{\rm{ov}}\approx$ 1.6
$M_{\odot}$. For zero overshoot, $f_{\rm{ov}}$=0.0, our models in the ZAMS mass
range $\approx$ 8.9 to 11 $M_{\odot}$ show off-center carbon ignition. For
canonical amounts of overshooting, $f_{\rm{ov}}$=0.016, the off-center carbon
ignition range shifts to $\approx$ 7.2 to 8.8 $M_{\odot}$. Only systems with
$f_{\rm{ov}}$ $\geq 0.01$ and ZAMS mass $\approx$ 7.2-8.0 $M_{\odot}$ show
carbon burning is quenched a significant distance from the center. These
results suggest a careful assessment of overshoot modeling approximations on
claims that carbon burning quenches an appreciable distance from the center of
the carbon core.