Context. While searching the NRAO VLA Sky Survey (NVSS) for diffuse radio
emission, we have serendipitously discovered extended radio emission close to
the Galactic plane. The radio morphology suggests the presence of a previously
unknown Galactic supernova remnant. An unclassified {\gamma}-ray source
detected by EGRET (3EG J1744-3934) is present in the same location and may stem
from the interaction between high-speed particles escaping the remnant and the
surrounding interstellar medium.
  Aims. Our aim is to confirm the presence of a previously unknown supernova
remnant and to determine a possible association with the {\gamma}-ray emission
3EG J1744-3934.
  Methods. We have conducted optical and radio follow-ups of the target using
the Dark Energy Camera (DECam) on the Blanco telescope at Cerro Tololo
Inter-American Observatory (CTIO) and the Giant Meterwave Radio Telescope
(GMRT). We then combined these data with archival radio and {\gamma}-ray
observations.
  Results. While we detected the extended emission in four different radio
bands (325, 1400, 2417, and 4850 MHz), no optical counterpart has been
identified. Given its morphology and brightness, it is likely that the radio
emission is caused by an old supernova remnant no longer visible in the optical
band. Although an unclassified EGRET source is co-located with the supernova
remnant, Fermi-LAT data do not show a significant {\gamma}-ray excess that is
correlated with the radio emission. However, in the radial distribution of the
{\gamma}-ray events, a spatially extended feature is related with SNR at a
confidence level $\sim 1.5$ {\sigma}.
  Conclusions. We classify the newly discovered extended emission in the radio
band as the old remnant of a previously unknown Galactic supernova: SNR
G351.0-5.4.