Let $M$ be the number of bounded and Lipschitz regular obstacles $D_j, j:=1,
..., M$ having a maximum radius $a$, $a<<1$, located in a bounded domain
$\Omega$ of $\mathbb{R}^3$. We are concerned with the acoustic scattering
problem with a very large number of obstacles, as $M:=M(a):=O(a^{-1})$,
$a\rightarrow 0$, when they are arbitrarily distributed in $\Omega$ with a
minimum distance between them of the order $d:=d(a):=O(a^t)$ with $t$ in an
appropriate range. We show that the acoustic farfields corresponding to the
scattered waves by this collection of obstacles, taken to be soft obstacles,
converge uniformly in terms of the incident as well the propagation directions,
to the one corresponding to an acoustic refraction index as $a\rightarrow 0$.
This refraction index is given as a product of two coefficients $C$ and $K$,
where the first one is related to the geometry of the obstacles (precisely
their capacitance) and the second one is related to the local distribution of
these obstacles. In addition, we provide explicit error estimates, in terms of
$a$, in the case when the obstacles are locally the same (i.e. have the same
capacitance, or the coefficient $C$ is piecewise constant) in $\Omega$ and the
coefficient $K$ is H$\ddot{\mbox{o}}$lder continuous. These approximations can
be applied, in particular, to the theory of acoustic materials for the design
of refraction indices by perforation using either the geometry of the holes,
i.e. the coefficient $C$, or their local distribution in a given domain
$\Omega$, i.e. the coefficient $K$.