Supernova 1987A (SN1987A) in the neighbouring Large Magellanic Cloud offers a
superb opportunity to follow the evolution of a supernova and its remnant in
unprecedented detail. Recently, far-infrared (far-IR) and sub-mm emission was
detected from the direction of SN1987A, which was interpreted as due to the
emission from dust, possibly freshly synthesized in the SN ejecta. To better
constrain the location and hence origin of the far-IR and sub-mm emission in
SN1987A, we have attempted to resolve the object in that part of the
electro-magnetic spectrum. We observed SN1987A during July-September 2011 with
the Atacama Pathfinder EXperiment (APEX), at a wavelength of 350 micron with
the Submillimetre APEX Bolometer CAmera (SABOCA) and at 870 micron with the
Large APEX BOlometer CAmera (LABOCA). The 350-micron image has superior angular
resolution (8") over that of the Herschel Space Observatory 350-micron image
(25"). The 870-micron observation (at 20" resolution) is a repetition of a
similar observation made in 2007. In both images, at 350 and 870 micron,
emission is detected from SN1987A, and the source is unresolved. The flux
densities in the new (2011) measurements are consistent with those measured
before with Herschel at 350 micron (in 2010) and with APEX at 870 micron (in
2007). A higher dust temperature (approximately 33 K) and lower dust mass might
be possible than what was previously thought. The new measurements, at the
highest angular resolution achieved so far at far-IR and sub-mm wavelengths,
strengthen the constraints on the location of the emission, which is thought to
be close to the site of SN1987A and its circumstellar ring structures. These
measurements set the stage for upcoming observations at even higher angular
resolution with the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA).