There is accumulating evidence that the faint end of the galaxy luminosity
function might be very different in different locations. The luminosity
function might be rising in rich clusters and flat or declining in regions of
low density. If galaxies form according to the model of hierarchical clustering
then there should be many small halos compared to the number of big halos. If
this theory is valid then there must be a mechanism that eliminates at least
the visible component of galaxies in low density regions. A plausible mechanism
is photoionization of the intergalactic medium at a time before the epoch that
most dwarf galaxies form in low density regions but after the epoch of
formation for similar systems that ultimately end up in rich clusters. The
dynamical timescales are found to accommodate this hypothesis in a flat
universe with Omega_m < 0.4.
  If small halos exist but simply cannot be located because they have never
become the sites of significant star formation, they still might have dynamical
manifestations. These manifestations are hard to identify in normal groups of
galaxies because small halos do not make a significant contribution to the
global mass budget. However, it could be entertained that there are clusters of
halos where there are only small systems, clusters that are at the low mass end
of the hierarchical tree. There may be places where only a few small galaxies
managed to form, enough for us to identify and use as test probes of the
potential. It turns out that such environments might be common. Four probable
groups of dwarfs are identified within 5 Mpc and the assumption they are
gravitationally bound suggests M/L_B ~ 300 - 1200 M_sun/L_sun, 6 +/- factor 2
times higher than typical values for groups with luminous galaxies.