We investigate multi-spacecraft observations of the January 17, 2010 solar
energetic particle event. Energetic electrons and protons have been observed
over a remarkable large longitudinal range at the two STEREO spacecraft and
SOHO suggesting a longitudinal spread of nearly 360 degrees at 1AU. The flaring
active region, which was on the backside of the Sun as seen from Earth, was
separated by more than 100 degrees in longitude from the magnetic footpoints of
each of the three spacecraft. The event is characterized by strongly delayed
energetic particle onsets with respect to the flare and only small or no
anisotropies in the intensity measurements at all three locations. The presence
of a coronal shock is evidenced by the observation of a type II radio burst
from the Earth and STEREO B. In order to describe the observations in terms of
particle transport in the interplanetary medium, including perpendicular
diffusion, a 1D model describing the propagation along a magnetic field line
(model 1) (Dr\"oge, 2003) and the 3D propagation model (model 2) by (Dr\"oge et
al., 2010) including perpendicular diffusion in the interplanetary medium have
been applied, respectively. While both models are capable of reproducing the
observations, model 1 requires injection functions at the Sun of several hours.
Model 2, which includes lateral transport in the solar wind, reveals high
values for the ratio of perpendicular to parallel diffusion. Because we do not
?find evidence for unusual long injection functions at the Sun we favor a
scenario with strong perpendicular transport in the interplanetary medium as
explanation for the observations.