We present strong-lensing models, as well as mass and magnification maps, for
the cores of the six HST Frontier Fields galaxy clusters. Our parametric lens
models are constrained by the locations and redshifts of multiple image systems
of lensed background galaxies. We use a combination of photometric redshifts
and spectroscopic redshifts of the lensed background sources obtained by us
(for Abell 2744 and Abell S1063), collected from the literature, or kindly
provided by the lensing community. Using our results, we (1) compare the
derived mass distribution of each cluster to its light distribution, (2)
quantify the cumulative magnification power of the HFF clusters, (3) describe
how our models can be used to estimate the magnification and image multiplicity
of lensed background sources at all redshifts and at any position within the
cluster cores, and (4) discuss systematic effects and caveats resulting from
our modeling methods. We specifically investigate the effect of the use of
spectroscopic and photometric redshift constraints on the uncertainties of the
resulting models. We find that the photometric redshift estimates of lensed
galaxies are generally in excellent agreement with spectroscopic redshifts,
where available. However, the flexibility associated with relaxed redshift
priors may cause the complexity of large-scale structure that is needed to
account for the lensing signal to be underestimated. Our findings thus
underline the importance of spectroscopic arc redshifts, or tight photometric
redshift constraints, for high precision lens models.
  All products from our best-fit lens models (magnification, convergence,
shear, deflection field) and model simulations for estimating errors are made
available via the Mikulski Archive for Space Telescopes.