Using high resolution cosmological simulations, we study hydrogen and helium
gravitational cooling radiation. We focus on the HeII cooling lines, which
arise from gas with a different temperature history (T_max ~ 10^5K) than HI
line emitting gas. We examine whether three major atomic cooling lines, HI
1216A, HeII 1640A and HeII 304A are observable, finding that HI 1216A and HeII
1640A cooling emission at z=2-3 are potentially detectable with deep narrow
band (R>100) imaging and/or spectroscopy from the ground. While the expected
strength of HI 1216A cooling emission depends strongly on the treatment of the
self-shielded phase of the IGM in the simulations, our predictions for the HeII
1640A line are more robust because the HeII 1640A emissivity is negligible
below T~10^4.5 K and less sensitive to the UV background. Although HeII 1640A
cooling emission is fainter than HI 1216A by at least a factor of 10 and,
unlike HI 1216A, might not be resolved spatially with current observational
facilities, it is more suitable to study gas accretion in the galaxy formation
process because it is optically thin and less contaminated by the recombination
lines from star-forming galaxies. The HeII 1640A line can be used to
distinguish among mechanisms for powering the so-called "Lyman alpha blobs" --
including gravitational cooling radiation, photoionization by stellar
populations, and starburst-driven superwinds -- because (1) HeII 1640A emission
is limited to very low metallicity (log(Z/Z_sun) < -5.3) and Population III
stars, and (2) the blob's kinematics are probed unambiguously through the HeII
1640A line width, which, for cooling radiation, is narrower (sigma < 400 km/s)
than typical wind speeds.