The red MSX source G034.5964-01.0292 (MSXG34), catalogued as a massive YSO,
was observed in molecular lines with the aim of discover and study molecular
outflows. We mapped a region of 3'x3' centered at MSXG34 using the Atacama
Submillimeter Telescope Experiment in the 12CO J=3-2 and HCO+ J=4-3 lines with
an angular and spectral resolution of 22" and 0.11 km/s, respectively.
Additionally, public 13CO J=1-0 and near-IR UKIDSS data obtained from the
Galactic Ring Survey and the WFCAM Sciencie Archive, respectively, were
analyzed. We found that the 12CO spectra towards the YSO present a
self-absorption dip, as it is usual in star forming regions, and spectral wings
evidencing outflow activity. The HCO+ was detected only towards the MSXG34
position at v_LSR ~ 14.2 km/s, in coincidence with the 12CO absorption dip and
approximately with the velocity of previous ammonia observations. HCO+ and NH3
are known to be enhanced in molecular outflows. Analyzing the spectral wings of
the 12CO line, we discovered misaligned red- and blue-shifted molecular
outflows associated with MSXG34. The near-IR emission shows a cone-like shape
nebulosity composed by two arc-like features related to the YSO, which can be
due to a cavity cleared in the circumstellar material by a precessing jet. This
can explain the misalignment in the molecular outflows. From the analysis of
the 13CO J=1--0 data we suggest that the YSO is very likely related to a
molecular clump ranging between 10 and 14 km/s. This suggests that MSXG34, with
an associated central velocity of about 14 km/s, may be located in the
background of this clump. Thus, the blue-shifted outflow is probably deflected
by the interaction with dense gas along the line of sight.