The distribution of high redshift Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia) with respect to
projected distance from the center of the host galaxy is studied and compared
to the distribution of local SNe. The distribution of high-z SNe Ia is found to
be similar to the local sample of SNe Ia discovered with CCDs, but different
than the sample discovered photographically. This is shown to be due to the
Shaw effect. These results have implications for the use of SNe Ia to determine
cosmological parameters if the local sample of supernovae used to calibrate the
light curve decline relationships is drawn from a sample discovered
photographically. A K-S test shows that the probability that the high redshift
SNe of the Supernova Cosmology Project are drawn from the same distribution as
the low redshift calibrators of Riess et al. is 0.1%. This is a potential
problem because photographically discovered SNe are preferentially discovered
farther away from the galaxy nucleus, where SNe show a lower scatter in
absolute magnitude, and are on average 0.3 magnitudes fainter than SNe located
closer to the center of their host galaxy. This raises questions about whether
or not the calibration SNe sample the full range of parameters potentially
present in high redshift SNe Ia. The limited data available suggest that the
calibration process is adequate; however, it would be preferable if high
redshift SNe and the low redshift SNe used to calibrate them were drawn from
the same sample, as subtle differences may be important. Data are also
presented which suggest that the seeming anti-Malmquist trend noticed by
Tammann et al.(1996, 1998) for SNe Ia in galaxies with Cepheid distances may be
due to the location of the SNe in their host galaxies.