We report on the 2.5 arcsec (400 pc) resolution CO (J = 1 -> 0) observations
covering the whole length of the bar in the strongly barred late-type spiral
galaxy NGC 7479. CO emission is detected only along a dust lane that traverses
the whole length of the bar, including the nucleus. The emission is strongest
in the nucleus. The distribution of emission is clumpy along the bar outside
the nucleus, and consists of gas complexes that are unlikely to be
gravitationally bound. The CO kinematics within the bar consist of two separate
components. A kinematically distinct circumnuclear disk, < 500 pc in diameter,
is undergoing predominantly circular motion with a maximum rotational velocity
of 245 km/s at a radius of 1 arcsec (160 pc). The CO-emitting gas in the bar
outside the circumnuclear disk has substantial noncircular motions which are
consistent with a large radial velocity component, directed inwards. The CO
emission has a large velocity gradient across the bar dust lane, ranging from
0.5 to 1.9 km/s/pc after correcting for inclination, and the projected velocity
change across the dust lane is as high as 200 km/s. This sharp velocity
gradient is consistent with a shock front at the location of the bar dust lane.
A comparison of H-alpha and CO kinematics across the dust lane shows that
although the H-alpha emission is often observed both upstream and downstream
from the dust lane, the CO emission is observed only where the velocity
gradient is large. We also compare the observations with hydrodynamic models
and discuss star formation along the bar.