The locations of supernovae in the local stellar and gaseous environment in
galaxies contain important clues to their progenitor stars. Access to this
information, however, has been hampered by the limited resolution achieved by
ground-based observations. High spatial resolution Hubble Space Telescope (HST)
images of galaxy fields in which supernovae had been observed can improve the
situation considerably. We have examined the immediate environments of a few
dozen supernovae using archival post-refurbishment HST images. Although our
analysis is limited due to signal-to-noise ratio and filter bandpass
considerations, the images allow us for the first time to resolve individual
stars in, and to derive detailed color-magnitude diagrams for, several
environments. We are able to place more rigorous constraints on the masses of
these supernovae. A search was made for late-time emission from supernovae in
the archival images, and for the progenitor stars in presupernova images of the
host galaxies. We have detected SN 1986J in NGC 891 and, possibly, SN 1981K in
NGC 4258. We have also identified the progenitor of the Type IIn SN 1997bs in
NGC 3627. By removing younger resolved stars in the environments of SNe Ia, we
can measure the colors of the unresolved stellar background and attribute these
colors generally to an older, redder population. HST images ``accidentally''
caught the Type Ia SN 1994D in NGC 4526 shortly after its outburst; we measure
its brightness. Finally, we add to the statistical inferences that can be made
from studying the association of SNe with recent star-forming regions.