[abridged] We present a detailed comparison of fundamental dark matter halo
properties retrieved by a substantial number of different halo finders. These
codes span a wide range of techniques including friends-of-friends (FOF),
spherical-overdensity (SO) and phase-space based algorithms. We further
introduce a robust (and publicly available) suite of test scenarios that allows
halo finder developers to compare the performance of their codes against those
presented here. This set includes mock haloes containing various levels and
distributions of substructure at a range of resolutions as well as a
cosmological simulation of the large-scale structure of the universe. All the
halo finding codes tested could successfully recover the spatial location of
our mock haloes. They further returned lists of particles (potentially)
belonging to the object that led to coinciding values for the maximum of the
circular velocity profile and the radius where it is reached. All the finders
based in configuration space struggled to recover substructure that was located
close to the centre of the host halo and the radial dependence of the mass
recovered varies from finder to finder. Those finders based in phase space
could resolve central substructure although they found difficulties in
accurately recovering its properties. Via a resolution study we found that most
of the finders could not reliably recover substructure containing fewer than
30-40 particles. However, also here the phase space finders excelled by
resolving substructure down to 10-20 particles. By comparing the halo finders
using a high resolution cosmological volume we found that they agree remarkably
well on fundamental properties of astrophysical significance (e.g. mass,
position, velocity, and peak of the rotation curve).