We present 5.2-37.2 micron spectroscopy of the edge-on circumstellar disk
CRBR 2422.8-3423 obtained using the InfraRed Spectrograph (IRS) of the Spitzer
Space Telescope. The IRS spectrum is combined with ground-based 3-5 micron
spectroscopy to obtain a complete inventory of solid state material present
along the line of sight toward the source. We model the object with a 2D
axisymmetric (effectively 3D) Monte Carlo radiative transfer code. It is found
that the model disk, assuming a standard flaring structure, is too warm to
contain the very large observed column density of pure CO ice, but is possibly
responsible for up to 50% of the water, CO2 and minor ice species. In
particular the 6.85 micron band, tentatively due to NH4+, exhibits a prominent
red wing, indicating a significant contribution from warm ice in the disk. It
is argued that the pure CO ice is located in the dense core Oph-F in front of
the source seen in the submillimeter imaging, with the CO gas in the core
highly depleted. The model is used to predict which circumstances are most
favourable for direct observations of ices in edge-on circumstellar disks. Ice
bands will in general be deepest for inclinations similar to the disk opening
angle, i.e. ~70 degrees. Due to the high optical depths of typical disk
mid-planes, ice absorption bands will often probe warmer ice located in the
upper layers of nearly edge-on disks. The ratios between different ice bands
are found to vary by up to an order of magnitude depending on disk inclination
due to radiative transfer effects caused by the 2D structure of the disk.
Ratios between ice bands of the same species can therefore be used to constrain
the location of the ices in a circumstellar disk. [Abstract abridged]