The main purpose of the paper is the analysis of seismic site effects in
various alluvial basins. The analysis is performed considering a numerical
approach (Boundary Element Method). Two main cases are considered : a shallow
deposit in the centre of Nice (France) [1] and a deep irregular basin in
Caracas (Venezuela) [2]. The amplification of seismic motion is analysed in
terms of level, occuring frequency and location. For both sites, the
amplification factor is found to reach maximum values of 20 (weak motion). Site
effects nevertheless have very different features concerning the frequency
dependence and the location of maximum amplification. For the shallow deposit
in Nice, the amplification factor is very small for low frequencies and fastly
increases above 1.0 Hz. The irregular Caracas basin gives a much different
frequency dependence with many different peaks at various frequencies. The
model for Caracas deep alluvial basin also includes a part of the local
topography such as the nearest mountain. One can estimate seismic site effects
due to both velocity contrast (between the basin and the bedrock) and local
topography of the site. Furthermore, the maximum amplification is located on
the surface for Nice, whereas some strong amplification areas also appear
inside the basin itself in the case of Caracas. One investigates the influence
of this focusing effect on the motion vs depth dependence. This is of great
interest for the analysis of seismic response of underground structures. The
form and the depth of alluvial deposits are then found to have a great
influence on the location of maximum amplification on the surface but also
inside the deposit for deep irregular basins. It is essential for the analysis
of the seismic response of both surface and underground structures.