We investigate the dust and gas distribution in the disk around HD 142527
based on ALMA observations of dust continuum, 13CO(3-2), and C18O(3-2)
emission. The disk shows strong azimuthal asymmetry in the dust continuum
emission, while gas emission is more symmetric. In this paper, we investigate
how gas and dust are distributed in the dust-bright northern part of the disk
and in the dust-faint southern part. We construct two axisymmetric disk models.
One reproduces the radial profiles of the continuum and the velocity moments 0
and 1 of CO lines in the north and the other reproduces those in the south. We
have found that the dust is concentrated in a narrow ring having ~50AU width
(in FWHM; w_d=30AU in our parameter definition) located at ~170-200AU from the
central star. The dust particles are strongly concentrated in the north. We
have found that the dust surface density contrast between the north and south
amounts to ~70. Compared to the dust, the gas distribution is more extended in
the radial direction. We find that the gas component extends at least from
~100AU to ~250AU from the central star, and there should also be tenuous gas
remaining inside and outside of these radii. The azimuthal asymmetry of gas
distribution is much smaller than dust. The gas surface density differs only by
a factor of ~3-10 between the north and south. Hence, gas-to-dust ratio
strongly depends on the location of the disk: ~30 at the location of the peak
of dust distribution in the south and ~3 at the location of the peak of dust
distribution in the north. Despite large uncertainties, the overall gas-to-dust
ratio is inferred to be ~10-30, indicating that the gas depletion may have
already been under way.