In research paper "Accurate estimation of the target location of object with
energy constraint & Adaptive Update Algorithms to Save Data" one of the central
issues in sensor networks is track the location, of moving object which have
overhead of saving data, an accurate estimation of the target location of
object with energy constraint .We do not have any mechanism which control and
maintain data .The wireless communication bandwidth is also very limited. Some
field which is using this technique are flood and typhoon detection, forest
fire detection, temperature and humidity and ones we have these information use
these information back to a central air conditioning and ventilation system. In
this research paper, we propose protocol based on the prediction and adaptive
based algorithm which is using less sensor node reduced by an accurate
estimation of the target location. we are using minimum three sensor node to
get the accurate position .We can extend it upto four or five to find more
accurate location but we have energy constraint so we are using three with
accurate estimation of location help us to reduce sensor node..We show that our
tracking method performs well in terms of energy saving regardless of mobility
pattern of the mobile target .We extends the life time of network with less
sensor node. Once a new object is detected, a mobile agent will be initiated to
track the roaming path of the object. The agent is mobile since it will choose
the sensor closest to the object to stay. The agent may invite some nearby
slave sensors to cooperatively position the object and inhibit other irrelevant
(i.e., farther) sensors from tracking the object. As a result, the
communication and sensing overheads are greatly reduced.