Observations of the solar corona with the Large Angle Spectrometric
Coronograph (LASCO) and Extreme ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (EIT) instruments
on the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) provide an unprecedented
opportunity to study coronal mass ejections (CMEs) from their initiation
through their evolution out to 30 \rsun. The objective of this study is to gain
an understanding of the source regions from which the CMEs emanate. To this
end, we have developed a list of 32 CMEs whose source regions are located on
the solar disk and are well observed in EIT 195 {\AA} data during the period
from so lar minimum in January 1996 through the rising part of the cycle in May
1998. We compare the EIT source regions with photospheric magnetograms from the
Michelson Doppler Imager (MDI) instrument on SOHO and the NSO/Kitt Peak
Observatory and also with H$\alpha$ data from various sources. The overall
results of our study show that 41% of the CME related transients observed are
associated with active regions and have no prominence eruptions, 44% are
associated with eruptions of prominences embedded in active regions and 15% are
associated with eruptions of prominences outside active regions. Those CMEs
that do not involve prominence eruptions originate in active regions both with
and without prominences. We describe 6 especially well observed events. These
case studies suggest that active region CMEs (without eruptive prominences) are
associated with active regions with lifetimes between 11--80 days. They are
also often associated with small scale emerging or cancelling flux over
timescales of 6--7 hours. CMEs associated with active region prominence
eruptions, on the other hand, are typically associated with old active regions
with lifetimes $\sim$ 6-7 months.