There is increasing evidence of a connection between AGN activity and galaxy
evolution. To obtain further insight into this potentially important
evolutionary phase, we analyse the properties of quasar host galaxies. In this
paper, we present a population synthesis modeling technique for off-axis
spectra, the results of which constrain host colour and the stellar ages of
luminous quasars (M_V(nuc)<-23). Our technique is similar to well established
quiescent-galaxy models, modified to accommodate scattered nuclear light (a
combination of atmospheric, instrumental and host galaxy scattered light)
observed off axis. In our model, subtraction of residual scattered quasar light
is performed, while simultaneously modeling the constituent stellar populations
of the host galaxy. The reliability of this technique is tested via a
Monte-Carlo routine in which the correspondence between synthetic spectra with
known parameters and the model output is determined. Application of this model
to a preliminary sample of 10 objects is presented and compared to previous
studies. Spectroscopic data was obtained via long-slit and integral-field unit
observations on the Keck and WIYN telescopes. We confirm that elliptical quasar
hosts are distinguishable (bluer) from inactive ellipticals in rest frame B-V
colour. Additionally, we note a trend for radio luminous (L_5GHz > 10^40 erg
s^-1) quasars to be located in redder host galaxies in comparison to their less
luminous radio counterparts. While the host colour and age of our radio
luminous sample is in close proximity to the green valley, our radio faint
sample is consistent with quiescent star-forming galaxies. However, further
observations are needed to confirm these results. Finally, we discuss future
applications for our technique on a larger sample of objects being obtained via
SALT and WIYN telescope observing campaigns.