We present N2D+ 3-2 (IRAM) and H2D+ 1_11 - 1_10 and N2H+ 4-3 (JCMT) maps of
the small cluster-forming Ophiuchus B2 core in the nearby Ophiuchus molecular
cloud. In conjunction with previously published N2H+ 1-0 observations, the N2D+
data reveal the deuterium fractionation in the high density gas across Oph B2.
The average deuterium fractionation R_D = N(N2D+)/N(N2H+) ~ 0.03 over Oph B2,
with several small scale R_D peaks and a maximum R_D = 0.1. The mean R_D is
consistent with previous results in isolated starless and protostellar cores.
The column density distributions of both H2D+ and N2D+ show no correlation with
total H2 column density. We find, however, an anticorrelation in deuterium
fractionation with proximity to the embedded protostars in Oph B2 to distances
>= 0.04 pc. Destruction mechanisms for deuterated molecules require gas
temperatures greater than those previously determined through NH3 observations
of Oph B2 to proceed. We present temperatures calculated for the dense core gas
through the equating of non-thermal line widths for molecules (i.e., N2D+ and
H2D+) expected to trace the same core regions, but the observed complex line
structures in B2 preclude finding a reasonable result in many locations. This
method may, however, work well in isolated cores with less complicated velocity
structures. Finally, we use R_D and the H2D+ column density across Oph B2 to
set a lower limit on the ionization fraction across the core, finding a mean
x_e, lim >= few x 10^{-8}. Our results show that care must be taken when using
deuterated species as a probe of the physical conditions of dense gas in
star-forming regions.