Context: The physical origin behind organic emission in embedded low-mass
star formation has been fiercely debated in the last two decades. A multitude
of scenarios have been proposed, from a hot corino to PDRs on cavity walls to
shock excitation.
  Aims: The aim of this paper is to determine the location and the
corresponding physical conditions of the gas responsible for organics emission
lines. The outflows around the small protocluster NGC 2071 are an ideal testbed
to differentiate between various scenarios.
  Methods: Using Herschel-HIFI and the SMA, observations of CH3OH, H2CO and
CH3CN emission lines over a wide range of excitation energies were obtained.
Comparisons to a grid of radiative transfer models provide constraints on the
physical conditions. Comparison to H2O line shape is able to trace gas-phase
synthesis versus a sputtered origin.
  Results: Emission of organics originates in three spots: the continuum
sources IRS 1 ('B') and IRS 3 ('A') as well as a outflow position ('F').
Densities are above 10$^7$ cm$^{-3}$ and temperatures between 100 to 200 K.
CH3OH emission observed with HIFI originates in all three regions and cannot be
associated with a single region. Very little organic emission originates
outside of these regions.
  Conclusions: Although the three regions are small (<1,500 AU), gas-phase
organics likely originate from sputtering of ices due to outflow activity. The
derived high densities (>10$^7$ cm$^{-3}$) are likely a requirement for organic
molecules to survive from being destroyed by shock products. The lack of
spatially extended emission confirms that organic molecules cannot (re)form
through gas-phase synthesis, as opposed to H2O, which shows strong line wing
emission. The lack of CH3CN emission at 'F' is evidence for a different history
of ice processing due to the absence of a protostar at that location and recent
ice mantle evaporation.