Four-dimensional spacetimes foliated by a two-parameter family of homologous
two-surfaces are considered in Einstein's theory of gravity. By combining a
1+(1+2) decomposition, the canonical form of the spacetime metric and a
suitable specification of the conformal structure of the foliating two-surfaces
a gauge fixing is introduced. It is shown that, in terms of the chosen
geometrically distinguished variables, the 1+3 Hamiltonian and momentum
constraints can be recast into the form of a parabolic equation and a first
order symmetric hyperbolic system, respectively. Initial data to this system
can be given on one of the two-surfaces foliating the three-dimensional initial
data surface. The 1+3 reduced Einstein's equations are also determined. By
combining the 1+3 momentum constraint with the reduced system of the secondary
1+2 decomposition a mixed hyperbolic-hyperbolic system is formed. It is shown
that solutions to this mixed hyperbolic-hyperbolic system are also solutions to
the full set of Einstein's equations provided that the 1+3 Hamiltonian
constraint is solved on the initial data surface $\Sigma_0$ and the 1+2
Hamiltonian and momentum type expressions vanish on a world-tube yielded by the
Lie transport of one of the two-surfaces foliating $\Sigma_0$ along the time
evolution vector field. Whenever the foliating two-surfaces are compact without
boundary in the spacetime and a regular origin exists on the time-slices---this
is the location where the foliating two-surfaces smoothly reduce to a
point---it suffices to guarantee that the 1+3 Hamiltonian constraint holds on
the initial data surface. A short discussion on the use of the geometrically
distinguished variables in identifying the degrees of freedom of gravity are
also included.