Using extensive Monte Carlo simulations we study the phase diagram of a
symmetric binary (AB) polymer blend confined into a thin film as a function of
the film thickness D. The monomer-wall interactions are short ranged and
antisymmetric, i.e, the left wall attracts the A-component of the mixture with
the same strength as the right wall the B-component, and give rise to a first
order wetting transition in a semi-infinite geometry. The phase diagram and the
crossover between different critical behaviors is explored. For large film
thicknesses we find a first order interface localisation/delocalisation
transition and the phase diagram comprises two critical points, which are the
finite film width analogies of the prewetting critical point. Using finite size
scaling techniques we locate these critical points and present evidence of 2D
Ising critical behavior. When we reduce the film width the two critical points
approach the symmetry axis $\phi=1/2$ of the phase diagram and for $D \approx 2
R_g$ we encounter a tricritical point. For even smaller film thickness the
interface localisation/delocalisation transition is second order and we find a
single critical point at $\phi=1/2$.
  Measuring the probability distribution of the interface position we determine
the effective interaction between the wall and the interface. This effective
interface potential depends on the lateral system size even away from the
critical points. Its system size dependence stems from the large but finite
correlation length of capillary waves. This finding gives direct evidence for a
renormalization of the interface potential by capillary waves in the framework
of a microscopic model.