We present stellar and gaseous kinematics of the inner 350 pc radius of the
Seyfert galaxy Mrk1066 derived from J and Kl bands data obtained with the
Gemini NIFS at a spatial resolution of 35 pc. The stellar velocity field is
dominated by rotation in the galaxy plane but shows an S-shape distortion along
the galaxy minor axis which seems to be due to an oval structure seen in an
optical continuum image. Along this oval, between 170 and 280 pc from the
nucleus we find a partial ring of low sigma (~50 km/s) attributed to an
intermediate age stellar population. Fro measurements of the emission-line
fluxes and profiles ([PII]1.19um, [FeII]1.26um, Pa-beta and H2 2.12um), we have
constructed maps for the gas centroid velocity, velocity dispersion, as well as
channel maps. The velocity fields for all emission lines are dominated by a
similar rotation pattern to that observed for the stars, but are distorted by
the presence of two structures: (i) a compact rotating disc with radius r~70
pc; (ii) outflows along the radio jet which is oriented approximately along the
galaxy major axis. The compact rotating disc is more conspicuous in the H2
emitting gas, which presents the smallest sigma values and most clear rotation
pattern, supporting a location in the galaxy plane. We estimate a gas mass for
the disc of ~10^7Msun. The H2 kinematics further suggests that the nuclear disc
is being fed by gas coming from the outer regions. The outflow is more
conspicuous in the [FeII] emitting gas, which presents the highest sigma values
(up to 150 km/s) and the highest blue and redshifts of up to 500 km/s, while
the highest stellar rotation velocity is only 130 km/s. We estimate a
mass-outflow rate in ionized gas of 0.06 Msun/yr. The derived kinematics for
the emitting gas is similar to that observed in previous studies supporting
that the H2 is a tracer of the AGN feeding and the [FeII] of its feedback.