We present deep Halpha+[NII], [SII] (6716,6731A) and [OII] (3726,3729A)
images of the highly inclined, actively star--forming SBm galaxy NGC 55,
located in the nearby Sculptor Group. Due to its proximity, NGC 55 provides a
unique opportunity to study the disk--halo interface in a late--type galaxy
with unprecedented spatial resolution. Our images reveal a spectacular variety
of ionized gas features, ranging from giant HII region complexes, to supergiant
filamentary and shell features, to patches of very faint diffuse emission. Many
of these features protrude well above the plane of the galaxy, including a very
faint fragmented shell of emission which is visible at 2.6 kpc above the disk.
We identify candidate `chimneys' extending out of the disk, which could be the
conduits into the halo for hot gas around disk star-forming regions, and could
also provide low-density paths for the passage of UV photons from the disk to
the halo. Several of the identified chimneys are `capped' with clumps of
ionized gas, one of which, located at 1.5 kpc above the disk plane, appears to
be the site of recent star formation. Emission--line ratios
([OII]/Halpha+[NII], [SII]/Halpha+[NII]) constrain the ionization mechanism of
the gas, and our images allow the first measurement of [OII]/Halpha+[NII] in
extra-planar diffuse ionized gas. The diffuse gas is characterized by
emission--line ratios which are enhanced on average by a factor of two compared
to those of bright HII regions. Each line ratio increases in value smoothly
from the cores of HII regions, through the haloes of HII regions, into the
diffuse ionized gas. Such a continuous trend is predicted by models in which
the diffuse gas is ionized by photons produced by massive stars in HII regions.