The spectra of protoplanetary disks contain mid- and far- infrared emission
features produced by forsterite dust grains. The spectral features contain
information about the forsterite temperature, chemical composition and grain
size. We aim to characterize how the 23 and 69 micron features can be used to
constrain the physical locations of forsterite in disks. We check for
consistency between two independent forsterite temperature measurements: the
23/69 feature strength ratio and the shape of the 69 micron band. We performed
radiative transfer modeling to study the effect of disk properties to the
forsterite spectral features. Temperature-dependent forsterite opacities were
considered in self-consistent models to compute forsterite emission from
protoplanetary disks. Modelling grids are presented to study the effects of
grain size, disk gaps, radial mixing and optical depth to the forsterite
features. Independent temperature estimates derived from the 23/69 feature
strength ratio and the 69 micron band shape are most inconsistent for HD141569
and Oph IRS 48. A case study of the disk of HD141569 shows two solutions to fit
the forsterite spectrum. A model with T ~ 40 K, iron-rich (~0-1 % Fe) and 1
micron forsterite grains, and a model with warmer (T ~ 100 K), iron-free, and
larger (10 micron) grains. We find that for disks with low upper limits of the
69 micron feature (most notably in flat, self-shadowed disks), the forsterite
must be hot, and thus close to the star. We find no correlation between disk
gaps and the presence or absence of forsterite features. We argue that the 69
micron feature of the evolved transitional disks HD141569 and Oph IRS 48 is
most likely a tracer of larger (i.e. ~10 micron) forsterite grains.