We have performed very large and high resolution cosmological hydrodynamics
simulations in order to investigate detectability of nebular lines in the
rest-frame UV to optical wavelength range from galaxies at z>7. We use a
light-cone output to select galaxies at z~7-10 by the same color and magnitude
criteria as real observations (Hubble Ultra Deep Survey). The UV dust
attenuation is ~ 0.5 mag for galaxies with H160 < 28 AB mag and < 0.2 mag for
fainter objects in our simulation. The expected line fluxes are very well
correlated with apparent UV magnitudes independent of the redshift. We find
that the C IV 1549 and the C III] 1909 line of galaxies brighter than 26 AB can
be detectable with current facilities such as the VLT/XShooter and the
Keck/MOSFIRE. Metal lines such as C IV 1549, C III] 1909, [O II] 3727 and [O
III] 4959/5007 can be good targets for the spectroscopic observation with the
Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT), the European Extremely Large Telescope (ELT), the
Giant Magellan Telescope (GMT) and the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST).
H$\alpha$ and H$\beta$ lines are also expected to be strong enough to be
detected with these telescopes. Finally, we predict detectability of the
nebular lines for z > 10 galaxies will be found with the next generation
telescopes such as the JWST, the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST)
and Wide-field Imaging Surveyor for High-Redshift (WISH) (11<z<15). We conclude
that C IV 1549, C III] 1909, [O III] 4959/5007 and H$\beta$ lines even from z ~
15 galaxies can be strong targets for the TMT, the ELTs and the JWST. We also
find that the magnification by gravitational lensing is of great help to detect
such high-z galaxies. According to our model, C III] 1909 line in z > 9 galaxy
candidates (MACS1149JD and MACS0647JD1) can be detectable using even the
current facilities such as the VLT/X-Shooter and the Keck/MOSFIRE with high
probability.