We study the interactions between the stellar wind plasma flow of a typical M
star, such as GJ 436, and hydrogen-rich upper atmospheres of an Earth-like
planet and a "super-Earth" with the radius of 2 R_Earth and a mass of 10
M_Earth, located within the habitable zone at ~0.24 AU. We investigate the
formation of extended atomic hydrogen coronae under the influences of the
stellar XUV flux (soft X-rays and EUV), stellar wind density and velocity,
shape of a planetary obstacle (e.g., magnetosphere, ionopause), and the loss of
planetary pick-up ions on the evolution of hydrogen-dominated upper
atmospheres. Stellar XUV fluxes which are 1, 10, 50 and 100 times higher
compared to that of the present-day Sun are considered and the formation of
high-energy neutral hydrogen clouds around the planets due to the
charge-exchange reaction under various stellar conditions have been modeled.
Charge-exchange between stellar wind protons with planetary hydrogen atoms, and
photoionization, leads to the production of initially cold ions of planetary
origin. We found that the ion production rates for the studied planets can vary
over a wide range, from ~1.0x10^{25} s^{-1} to ~5.3x10^{30} s^{-1}, depending
on the stellar wind conditions and the assumed XUV exposure of the upper
atmosphere. Our findings indicate that most likely the majority of these
planetary ions are picked up by the stellar wind and lost from the planet.
Finally, we estimate the long-time non-thermal ion pick-up escape for the
studied planets and compare them with the thermal escape. According to our
estimates, non-thermal escape of picked up ionized hydrogen atoms over a
planet's lifetime varies between ~0.4 Earth ocean equivalent amounts of
hydrogen (EO_H) to <3 EO_H and usually is several times smaller in comparison
to the thermal atmospheric escape rates.