We have mapped the gaseous kinematics and the emission-line flux
distributions and ratios from the inner ~680pc radius of the Seyfert 1 galaxy
Mrk79, using two-dimensional (2D) near-IR J- and Kl-band spectra obtained with
the Gemini instrument NIFS at a spatial resolution of ~100pc and velocity
resolution of ~40km/s. The molecular hydrogen flux distribution presents two
spiral arms extending by ~700pc, one to the north and another to the south of
the nucleus, with an excitation indicating heating by X-rays from the central
source. The low velocity dispersion (sigma~50km/s) and rotation pattern
supports a location of the H2 gas in the disk of the galaxy. Blueshifts
observed along the spiral arm in the far side of the galaxy and redshifts in
the spiral arm in the near side, suggest that the spiral arms are feeding
channels of H2 to the inner 200pc. From channel maps along the H2 l2.1218um
emission-line profile we estimate a mass inflow rate of ~4E-3 M_Sun/year, which
is one order of magnitude smaller than the mass accretion rate necessary to
power the AGN of Mrk79. The emission from the ionized gas (traced by Pabeta and
[FeII]l1.2570um emission lines) is correlated with the radio jet and with the
narrow-band [OIII] flux distribution. Its kinematics shows both rotation and
outflows to the north and south of the nucleus. The ionized gas mass outflow
rate through a cross section with radius ~320pc located at a distance of ~455pc
from the nucleus is 3.5 MSun/year, which is much larger than the AGN mass
accretion rate, indicating that most of the outflowing gas originates in the
interstellar medium surrounding the galaxy nucleus, which is pushed away by a
nuclear jet.