Water fountain stars represent a stage between the asymptotic giant branch
(AGB) and planetary nebulae phases, when the mass loss changes from spherical
to bipolar. These types of evolved objects are characterized by high-velocity
jets in the 22 GHz water maser emission. We surveyed the CO and 13CO line
emission towards a sample of ten water fountain stars through observing the
J=1-0 and 2-1 lines of CO and 13CO, using the 30m IRAM radio telescope at Pico
Veleta. All the water fountains visible from the observatory were surveyed.
Most of the line emission arises from foreground or background Galactic clouds,
and we had to thoroughly analyse the spectra to unveil the velocity components
related to the stars. In two sources, IRAS 18460-0151 and IRAS 18596+0315, we
identified wide velocity components with a width of 35-40 km/s that are centred
at the stellar velocities. These wide components can be associated with the
former AGB envelope of the progenitor star. A third case, IRAS 18286-0959, is
reported as tentative; in this case a pair of narrow velocity components,
symmetrically located with respect to the stellar velocity, has been
discovered. We also modelled the line emission using an LVG code and derived
some global physical parameters, which allowed us to discuss the possible
origin of this gas in relation to the known bipolar outflows. For IRAS
18460-0151 and IRAS 18596+0315, we derived molecular masses close to 0.2 solar
masses, mean densities of 10^4 cm^{-3}, and mass-loss rates of 10^{-4}
M_sun/yr. The kinetic temperatures are rather low, between 10 and 50 K in both
cases, which suggests that the CO emission is arising from the outer and cooler
regions of the envelopes. No fitting was possible for IRAS 18286-0959, because
line contamination can not be discarded in this case.