Two-ribbon brightenings are one of the most remarkable characteristics of an
eruptive solar flare and are often used for predicting the occurrence of
coronal mass ejections (CMEs). Nevertheless, it was called in question recently
whether all two-ribbon flares are eruptive. In this paper, we investigate a two
ribbon-like white-light (WL) flare that is associated with a failed magnetic
flux rope (MFR) eruption on 2015 January 13, which has no accompanying CME in
the WL coronagraph. Observations by \textit{Optical and Near-infrared Solar
Eruption Tracer} and \textit{Solar Dynamics Observatory} reveal that, with the
increase of the flare emission and the acceleration of the unsuccessfully
erupting MFR, two isolated kernels appear at the WL 3600 {\AA} passband and
quickly develop into two elongated ribbon-like structures. The evolution of the
WL continuum enhancement is completely coincident in time with the variation of
\textit{Fermi} hard X-ray 26--50 keV flux. Increase of continuum emission is
also clearly visible at the whole FUV and NUV passbands observed by
\textit{Interface Region Imaging Spectrograph}. Moreover, in one WL kernel, the
\ion{Si}{4}, \ion{C}{2}, and \ion{Mg}{2} h/k lines display significant
enhancement and non-thermal broadening. However, their Doppler velocity pattern
is location-dependent. At the strongly bright pixels, these lines exhibit a
blueshift; while at moderately bright ones, the lines are generally redshifted.
These results show that the failed MFR eruption is also able to produce a
two-ribbon flare and high-energy electrons that heat the lower atmosphere,
causing the enhancement of the WL and FUV/NUV continuum emissions and
chromospheric evaporation.