We propose a technique, to be used for time-resolved pump-probe experiments,
for timing an x-ray free electron laser (XFEL) to a high-power conventional
laser with femtosecond accuracy. Our method takes advantage of the same
electron bunch to produce both an XFEL pulse and an ultrashort optical pulse
with the help of an optical radiator downstream of the x-ray undulator. Since
both pulses are produced by the same electron bunch, they are perfectly
synchronized. Application of cross-correlation techniques will allow to
determine relative jitter between the optical pulse (and, thus, the XFEL pulse)
and a pulse from an external pump-laser with femtosecond resolution. Technical
realization of the proposed timing scheme uses an optical replica synthesizer
(ORS) setup to be installed after the final bunch-compression stage of the
XFEL. The electron bunch is modulated in the ORS setup by an external optical
laser. Subsequently, it travels through the main undulator, and produces the
XFEL pulse. Finally, a powerful optical pulse of coherent edge radiation is
generated as the bunch passes through a long straight section and a separation
magnet downstream of the main undulator. Our study shows that at a moderate
(about 10%) density modulation of the electron bunch at the location of the
optical radiator allows production of high power x-ray and optical pulses.
Relative synchronization of these pulses is preserved by using the same
mechanical support for both x-ray and optical elements transporting radiation
down to the experimental area, where single-shot cross-correlation between
optical pulse and pump-laser pulse is performed. We illustrate the potential of
the proposed timing technique with numerical examples referring to the European
XFEL facility.