We give an expression for the Lindblad torque acting on a low-mass planet
embedded in a protoplanetary disk that is valid even at locations where the
surface density or temperature profile cannot be approximated by a power law,
such as an opacity transition. At such locations, the Lindblad torque is known
to suffer strong deviation from its standard value, with potentially important
implications for type I migration, but the full treatment of the tidal
interaction is cumbersome and not well suited to models of planetary population
synthesis. The expression that we propose retains the simplicity of the
standard Lindblad torque formula and gives results that accurately reproduce
those of numerical simulations, even at locations where the disk temperature
undergoes abrupt changes. Our study is conducted by means of customized
numerical simulations in the low-mass regime, in locally isothermal disks, and
compared to linear torque estimates obtained by summing fully analytic torque
estimates at each Lindblad resonance. The functional dependence of our modified
Lindblad torque expression is suggested by an estimate of the shift of the
Lindblad resonances that mostly contribute to the torque, in a disk with sharp
gradients of temperature or surface density, while the numerical coefficients
of the new terms are adjusted to seek agreement with numerics. As side results,
we find that the vortensity related corotation torque undergoes a boost at an
opacity transition that can counteract migration, and we find evidence from
numerical simulations that the linear corotation torque has a non-negligible
dependency upon the temperature gradient, in a locally isothermal disk.