The multipath-rich wireless environment associated with typical wireless
usage scenarios is characterized by a fading channel response that is
time-varying, location-sensitive, and uniquely shared by a given
transmitter-receiver pair. The complexity associated with a richly scattering
environment implies that the short-term fading process is inherently hard to
predict and best modeled stochastically, with rapid decorrelation properties in
space, time and frequency. In this paper, we demonstrate how the channel state
between a wireless transmitter and receiver can be used as the basis for
building practical secret key generation protocols between two entities. We
begin by presenting a scheme based on level crossings of the fading process,
which is well-suited for the Rayleigh and Rician fading models associated with
a richly scattering environment. Our level crossing algorithm is simple, and
incorporates a self-authenticating mechanism to prevent adversarial
manipulation of message exchanges during the protocol. Since the level crossing
algorithm is best suited for fading processes that exhibit symmetry in their
underlying distribution, we present a second and more powerful approach that is
suited for more general channel state distributions. This second approach is
motivated by observations from quantizing jointly Gaussian processes, but
exploits empirical measurements to set quantization boundaries and a heuristic
log likelihood ratio estimate to achieve an improved secret key generation
rate. We validate both proposed protocols through experimentations using a
customized 802.11a platform, and show for the typical WiFi channel that
reliable secret key establishment can be accomplished at rates on the order of
10 bits/second.