We present an analysis of a pointed 141 ks Chandra high resolution
transmission gratings observation of the Be X-ray emitting star HD110432, a
prominent member of the gamma Cas analogs. The Chandra lightcurve shows a high
variability but its analysis fails to detect any coherent periodicity up to a
frequency of 0.05 Hz. The analysis of the Chandra HETG spectrum shows that, to
correctly describe the spectrum, three model components are needed. Two of
those components are optically thin thermal plasmas of different temperatures
(kT~8-9 and 0.2-0.3 keV respectively). Two different models seem to describe
well the third component. One possibility is a third hot optically thin thermal
plasma at kT=16-21 keV with an Fe abundance Z~0.3Zo, definitely smaller than
for the other two thermal components. Alternatively, the third component can be
described by a powerlaw with a photon index Gamma=1.56. In either case, the
Chandra HETG spectrum establishes that each one of these components must be
modified by distinct absorption columns. The analysis of a non contemporaneous
25 ks Suzaku observation shows the presence of a hard tail extending up to at
least 33 keV. The Suzaku spectrum is described with the sum of two components:
an optically thin thermal plasma at kT ~ 9 keV and a very hot second plasma
with kT ~33 keV or, alternatively, a powerlaw with photon index Gamma=1.58. The
analysis of the Si XIII and S XV He like triplets present in the Chandra
spectrum point to a very dense (n_e ~ 10^13 cm^-3) plasma located either close
to the stellar surface (r<3R_*) of the Be star or, alternatively, very close (r
~1.5R_WD) to the surface of a (hypothetical) WD companion. We argue, however,
that the available data supports the first scenario.