We report the detection in Ks-band of the secondary eclipse of the hot
Jupiter CoRoT-1b, from time series photometry with the ARC 3.5-m telescope at
Apache Point Observatory. The eclipse shows a depth of 0.336+/-0.042 percent
and is centered at phase 0.5022 (+0.0023,-0.0027), consistent with a zero
eccentricity orbit ecos{\omega} = 0.0035 (+0.0036,-0.0042). We perform the
first optical to near-infrared multi-band photometric analysis of an
exoplanet's atmosphere and constrain the reflected and thermal emissions by
combining our result with the recent 0.6, 0.71, and 2.09 micron secondary
eclipse detections by Snellen et al. (2009), Gillon et al. (2009), and Alonso
et al. (2009a). Comparing the multi-wavelength detections to state-of-the-art
radiative-convective chemical-equilibrium atmosphere models, we find the
near-infrared fluxes difficult to reproduce. The closest blackbody-based and
physical models provide the following atmosphere parameters: a temperature T =
2454 (+84,-170) K, a very low Bond albedo A_B = 0.000 (+0.087,-0.000), and an
energy redistribution parameter P_n = 0.1, indicating a small but nonzero
amount of heat transfer from the day- to night-side. The best physical model
suggests a thermal inversion layer with an extra optical absorber of opacity
kappa_e =0.05cm^2g^-1, placed near the 0.1-bar atmospheric pressure level. This
inversion layer is located ten times deeper in the atmosphere than the
absorbers used in models to fit mid-infrared Spitzer detections of other
irradiated hot Jupiters.