In non-destructive evaluation with X-rays light elements embedded in dense,
heavy (or high-Z) matrices show little contrast and their structural details
can hardly be revealed. Neutron radiography, on the other hand, provides a
solution for those cases, in particular for hydrogenous materials, owing to the
large neutron scattering cross section of hydrogen and uncorrelated dependency
of neutron cross section on the atomic number. The majority of neutron imaging
experiments at the present time is conducted with static objects mainly due to
the limited flux intensity of neutron beamline facilities and sometimes due to
the limitations of the detectors. However, some applications require the
studies of dynamic phenomena and can now be conducted at several high intensity
beamlines such as the recently rebuilt ANTARES beam line at the FRM-II reactor.
In this paper we demonstrate the capabilities of time resolved imaging for
repetitive processes, where different phases of the process can be imaged
simultaneously and integrated over multiple cycles. A fast MCP/Timepix neutron
counting detector was used to image the water distribution within a model steam
engine operating at 10 Hz frequency. Within <10 minutes integration the amount
of water was measured as a function of cycle time with a sub-mm spatial
resolution, thereby demonstrating the capabilities of time-resolved neutron
radiography for the future applications. The neutron spectrum of the ANTARES
beamline as well as transmission spectra of a Fe sample were also measured with
the Time Of Flight (TOF) technique in combination with a high resolution beam
chopper. The energy resolution of our setup was found to be ~0.8% at 5 meV and
~1.7% at 25 meV.