We propose a realistic Beta-Beam experiment with four source ions and two
baselines for the best possible sensitivity to theta_{13}, CP violation and
mass hierarchy. Neutrinos from 18Ne and 6He with Lorentz boost gamma=350 are
detected in a 500 kton water Cerenkov detector at a distance L=650 km (first
oscillation peak) from the source. Neutrinos from 8B and 8Li are detected in a
50 kton magnetized iron detector at a distance L=7000 km (magic baseline) from
the source. Since the decay ring requires a tilt angle of 34.5 degrees to send
the beam to the magic baseline, the far end of the ring has a maximum depth of
d=2132 m for magnetic field strength of 8.3 T, if one demands that the fraction
of ions that decay along the straight sections of the racetrack geometry decay
ring (called livetime) is 0.3. We alleviate this problem by proposing to trade
reduction of the livetime of the decay ring with the increase in the boost
factor of the ions, such that the number of events at the detector remains
almost the same. This allows to substantially reduce the maximum depth of the
decay ring at the far end, without significantly compromising the sensitivity
of the experiment to the oscillation parameters. We take 8B and 8Li with
gamma=390 and 656 respectively, as these are the largest possible boost factors
possible with the envisaged upgrades of the SPS at CERN. This allows us to
reduce d of the decay ring by a factor of 1.7 for 8.3 T magnetic field.
Increase of magnetic field to 15 T would further reduce d to 738 m only. We
study the sensitivity reach of this two baseline two storage ring Beta-Beam
experiment, and compare it with the corresponding reach of the other proposed
facilities.