We analyzed the ground motion time histories due to the local seismicity near
the Itoiz reservoir, in order to estimate the surface 3D displacement-gradients
and dynamic deformations. The seismic data were obtained by a semi-permanent
broadband and accelerometric network installed by the University of Almeria
during 2008 and 2009. Seismic sensors were located on surface and at
underground sites in the vicinity of the dam. The dynamic deformation field was
calculated by two different methods. On one hand, by the Seismo-Geodetic method
using the data from a three-station micro-array. On the other hand, by
Single-Station estimates of displacement gradients, assuming the incidence of
body wave fields propagating through the recording site. The dynamic
deformations obtained from both methods were compared and analyzed in the
context of the local effects near the dam. The shallow 1D velocity structure
was estimated from seismic data by modeling the body-wave travel times. After
the comparison of the dynamic displacement gradients, the time histories result
quite similar within the time-window of body-wave arrivals. The strain misfits
between methods vary from 3.9% to 11.6% and rotational misfits vary from 1.5%
to 22.7%. Amplitudes of displacement gradients vary in the range of 10-8 to
10-7 strains. From the analysis, these low amplitudes appear directly related
with the low-magnitudes of earthquakes analyzed. The misfits between the two
methods studied here are small and within the same values with respect to
direct measurements. While both methods studied here have shown to be adequate
for dynamic deformation evaluations, the Single-Station method has proved to be
a good option for the analysis of local seismicity, where few three-component
stations are available. The results obtained here would help to extend the
applicability of these methodologies to other sites of engineering interest.