We present observations of the Zeeman effect in OH thermal absorption main
lines at 1665 and 1667 MHz taken with the Very Large Array (VLA) toward the
star forming region S88B. The OH absorption profiles toward this source are
complicated, and contain several blended components toward a number of
positions. Almost all of the OH absorbing gas is located in the eastern parts
of S88B, toward the compact continuum source S88B-2 and the eastern parts of
the extended continuum source S88B-1. The ratio of 1665/1667 MHz OH line
intensities indicates the gas is likely highly clumped, in agreement with other
molecular emission line observations in the literature. S88-B appears to
present a similar geometry to the well-known star forming region M17, in that
there is an edge-on eastward progression from ionized to molecular gas. The
detected magnetic fields appear to mirror this eastward transition; we detected
line-of-sight magnetic fields ranging from 90-400 \mu G, with the lowest values
of the field to the southwest of the S88B-1 continuum peak, and the highest
values to its northeast. We used the detected fields to assess the importance
of the magnetic field in S88B by a number of methods; we calculated the ratio
of thermal to magnetic pressures, we calculated the critical field necessary to
completely support the cloud against self-gravity and compared it to the
observed field, and we calculated the ratio of mass to magnetic flux in terms
of the critical value of this parameter. All these methods indicated that the
magnetic field in S88B is dynamically significant, and should provide an
important source of support against gravity. Moreover, the magnetic energy
density is in approximate equipartition with the turbulent energy density,
again pointing to the importance of the magnetic field in this region.