We present Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope HI images, Lovell Telescope
multibeam HI wide-field mapping, Wisconsin H-alpha Mapper facility images,
William Herschel Telescope longslit echelle CaII observations, and IRAS ISSA 60
and 100 micron coadded images towards the intermediate velocity cloud located
in the general direction of the M15 globular cluster. When combined with
previously-published Arecibo data, the HI gas in the IVC is found to be clumpy,
with peak HI column density of 1.5x10^(20) cm^(-2), inferred volume density
(assuming spherical symmetry) of 24 cm^(-3)/(D kpc), and maximum brightness
temperature at a resolution of 81x14 arcsec of 14 K. The HI gas in the cloud is
warm, with a minimum FWHM value of 5 km/s, corresponding to a kinetic
temperature, in the absence of turbulence, of 540 K. There are indications in
the HI data of 2-component velocity structure in the IVC, indicative of
cloudlets. This velocity structure is also tentatively seen in the CaK spectra,
although the SNR is low. The main IVC condensation is detected by WHAM in
H-alpha with intensities uncorrected for Galactic absorption of upto 1.3
Rayleigh, indicating that the cloud is partially ionised. The FWHM of the
ionised component, at a resolution of 1 degree, exceeds 30 km/s. The spatial
and velocity coincidence of the H-alpha and HI peaks in emission is
qualitatively good. Finally, the 100 and 60 micron IRAS images show spatial
coincidence over a 0.7 degree field, with low and intermediate-velocity gas,
respectively, indicating that the IVC may contain dust.