We present a detailed kinematical analysis of two selected nebulae in the
Local Group irregular galaxy IC 1613. The nebulae are: S8, the only known
supernova remnant in this galaxy, and S3, a Wolf-Rayet nebula associated with
the only WO star in this galaxy. For S8, we have obtained and analyzed its
radial velocity field, where we found complex profiles which can be fitted by
several velocity components. These profiles also show the presence of high
velocity, low density gas. From this, we have obtained the expansion velocity,
estimated the preshock density and calculated the basic kinematical parameters
of this SNR. We suggest that in S8 we are seing a SNR partially hidden by dust.
This suggestion comes from the fact that the SNR is located between two
superbubbles where a ridge of obscured material unveils the existence of dust.
Moreover, we show that this hypothesis prevails when energetic arguments are
taken into account. In the case of S3, this nebula shows bipolar structure. By
means of its kinematics, we have analyzed its two lobes, the ``waist'', as well
as its relation with the nearest superbubbles. For the first time we are able
to see closed the NW lobe, showing a clover leaf shape. This fact allows a
better quantitative knowledge of the nebula as a whole. Furthermore, we found
evidence of an expansion motion in the NW lobe. In the light of our results, we
can express that these nebulae are the product of very massive stellar
evolution. It is surprising the influence these stars still have in shaping
their surrounding gas, and on the energy liberation towards the interstellar
medium of this galaxy.