We examine the globular cluster systems (GCS) of a sample of 34 S0 galaxies
from a WFPC2 snapshot survey in the V and I-bands. Of these 34 galaxies, 29
have measurable globular cluster systems. The mean color of the GCSs of
individual galaxies vary from V-I=0.85 mag to V-I=1.17 mag. The average color
of GCSs in all 29 S0 galaxies, V-I=1.00 +/- 0.07 mag, is similar to the value
of V-I=1.04 +/- 0.04 derived for ellipticals in a companion paper. The mean
metallicity of a cluster system is correlated to the luminosity (or mass) of
the host galaxy, but is not dependent on the Hubble type. Our measurements of
the local specific frequency, on the other hand, confirm that the cluster
formation efficiency is a function of Hubble type. The mean local specific
frequency of our sample within the WFPC2 field-of-view is 1.0 +/- 0.6, lower
than S_(N Local)=2.4 +/- 1.8 derived for ellipticals in a similar analysis.
Although we are able to confirm a bimodal color distribution in only one galaxy
from the shallow 'snapshot' images analyzed in this paper statistical tests
suggest that 10-20% of S0s are bimodal it at the present level of photometric
accuracy. There are no significant trends in GCS properties with membership or
location of the S0 host in a galaxy cluster. We have measured the turnover
luminosity of the globular cluster luminosity function (GCLF) for the richest
few GCSs and find the GCLF distances to be in agreement with other estimates.
The globular clusters in S0 galaxies have average half-light radii of ~2.6 pc
which is similar to that of other galaxies, including our own.