We present a 3-D NLTE Monte Carlo radiative transfer code that we use to
study the temperature and ionization structure of Keplerian disks around
Classical Be stars. The method we employ is largely similiar to the Monte Carlo
transition probability method developed by Lucy. Here we present a
simplification of his method that avoids the use of the macro atom concept. Our
investigations of the temperature structure of Be star disks show that the disk
temperature behavior is a hybrid between the behavior of Young Stellar Object
(YSO) disks and Hot Star winds. The optically thick inner parts of Be star
disks have temperatures that are similar to YSO disks, while the optically thin
outer parts are like stellar winds. Thus, the temperature at the disk midplane
initially drops, reaching a minimum at 3--5 stellar radii, after which it rises
back to the optically thin radiative equilibrium temperature at large
distances. On the other hand, the optically thin upper layers of the disk are
approximately isothermal -- a behavior that is analogous to the hot upper
layers of YSO disks. We also find that the disks are fully ionized, as
expected, but there is an ionization minimum in the vicinity of the temperature
minimum. Finally, we find that, despite the complex temperature structure, the
infrared excess is well-approximated by an equivalent isothermal disk model
whose temperature is about 60% of the stellar temperature. This is largely
because, at long wavelengths, the effective photosphere of the disk is located
in its isothermal regions.