We report the results of a search for a point X-ray source (stellar remnant)
in the southwest protrusion of the supernova remnant G 315.4-2.30 (MSH 14-63,
RCW 86) using the archival data of the Chandra X-ray Observatory. The search
was motivated by a hypothesis that G 315.4-2.30 is the result of an
off-centered cavity supernova explosion of a moving massive star, which ended
its evolution just near the edge of the main-sequence wind-driven bubble. This
hypothesis implies that the southwest protrusion in G 315.4-2.30 is the
remainder of a pre-existing bow shock-like structure created by the interaction
of the supernova progenitor's wind with the interstellar medium and that the
actual location of the supernova blast center is near the center of this
hemispherical structure. We have discovered two point X-ray sources in the
"proper" place. One of the sources has an optical counterpart with the
photographic magnitude $13.38\pm0.40$, while the spectrum of the source can be
fitted with an optically thin plasma model. We interpret this source as a
foreground active star of late spectral type. The second source has no optical
counterpart to a limiting magnitude $\sim 21$. The spectrum of this source can
be fitted almost equally well with several simple models (power law: photon
index $=1.87$; two-temperature blackbody: $kT_1 =0.11$ keV, $R_1 =2.34 $ km and
$kT_2 =0.71$ keV, $R_2 =0.06$ km; blackbody plus power law: $kT =0.07$ keV,
photon index $=2.3$). We interpret this source as a candidate stellar remnant
(neutron star), while the photon index and non-thermal luminosity of the source
(almost the same as those of the Vela pulsar and the recently discovered pulsar
PSR J 0205+6449 in the supernova remnant 3C 58) suggest that it can be a young
"ordinary" pulsar.