High-resolution cameras produce huge volume of high quality images everyday.
It is extremely challenging to store, share and especially search those huge
images, for which increasing number of cloud services are presented to support
such functionalities. However, images tend to contain rich sensitive
information (\eg, people, location and event), and people's privacy concerns
hinder their readily participation into the services provided by untrusted
third parties. In this work, we introduce PIC: a Privacy-preserving large-scale
Image search system on Cloud. Our system enables efficient yet secure
content-based image search with fine-grained access control, and it also
provides privacy-preserving image storage and sharing among users. Users can
specify who can/cannot search on their images when using the system, and they
can search on others' images if they satisfy the condition specified by the
image owners. Majority of the computationally intensive jobs are outsourced to
the cloud side, and users only need to submit the query and receive the result
throughout the entire image search. Specially, to deal with massive images, we
design our system suitable for distributed and parallel computation and
introduce several optimizations to further expedite the search process. We
implement a prototype of PIC including both cloud side and client side. The
cloud side is a cluster of computers with distributed file system (Hadoop HDFS)
and MapReduce architecture (Hadoop MapReduce). The client side is built for
both Windows OS laptops and Android phones. We evaluate the prototype system
with large sets of real-life photos. Our security analysis and evaluation
results show that PIC successfully protect the image privacy at a low cost of
computation and communication.