The features of pulsed $\gamma$-ray emission from classical and millisecond
pulsars indicate that the high energy radiation processes in their inner
magnetospheres occur in a similar way. In the last decade several TeV
$\gamma$-ray nebulae have been discovered around classical pulsars. The above
facts suggest that $\gamma$-rays should be produced also in the surroundings of
millisecond pulsars. We discuss a model for the bow shock nebula around the
well known Black Widow binary system containing the millisecond pulsar
B1957+20. This model predicts the existence of a synchrotron X-ray and inverse
Compton $\gamma$-ray nebula around this system. We want to find out whether
$\gamma$-ray emission from the nebula around B1957+20 could be detected by the
future and present Cherenkov telescopes. Using the Monte Carlo method we
followed the propagation of relativistic electrons in the vicinity of the
pulsar. We calculated the very high energy radiation produced by them in the
synchrotron process and the inverse Compton scattering of the Microwave
Background Radiation and of the infrared radiation from the galactic disk. We
also computed the X-ray emission produced by the electrons in the synchrotron
process. We show that the hard X-ray tail emission observed from the vicinity
of B1957+20 can be explained by our model. Moreover, we predict that the TeV
$\gamma$-ray emission produced by the electrons in the inverse Compton process
should be detectable by the future Cherenkov Telescope Array and possibly by
the long term observations with the present Cherenkov arrays such as MAGIC and
VERITAS. The $\gamma$-ray emission from B1957+20 is expected to be extended,
inhomogeneous, and shifted from the present location of the binary system by a
distance comparable to the radius of the nebula.