We present high-dynamic-range images of circumstellar dust around HR 4796A
that were obtained with MIRLIN at the Keck II telescope at lambda = 7.9, 10.3,
12.5 and 24.5 um. We also present a new continuum measurement at 350 um
obtained at the Caltech Submillimeter Observatory. Emission is resolved in Keck
images at 12.5 and 24.5 um with PSF FWHM's of 0.37" and 0.55", respectively,
and confirms the presence of an outer ring centered at 70 AU. Unresolved excess
infrared emission is also detected at the stellar position and must originate
well within 13 AU of the star. A model of dust emission fit to flux densities
at 12.5, 20.8, and 24.5 um indicates dust grains are located 4(+3/-2) AU from
the star with effective size, 28+/-6 um, and an associated temperature of
260+/-40 K.
  We simulate all extant data with a simple model of exozodiacal dust and an
outer exo-Kuiper ring. A two-component outer ring is necessary to fit both Keck
thermal infrared and HST scattered-light images. Bayesian parameter estimates
yield a total cross-sectional area of 0.055 AU^2 for grains roughly 4 AU from
the star and an outer-dust disk composed of a narrow large-grain ring embedded
within a wider ring of smaller grains. The narrow ring is 14+/-1 AU wide with
inner radius 66+/-1 AU and total cross-sectional area 245 AU^2. The outer ring
is 80+/-15 AU wide with inner radius 45+/-5 AU and total cross-sectional area
90 AU^2. Dust grains in the narrow ring are about 10 times larger and have
lower albedos than those in the wider ring. These properties are consistent
with a picture in which radiation pressure dominates the dispersal of an
exo-Kuiper belt.