We investigate the local correlation betwen the 1.4 GHz radio continuum and
60 micron far-infrared (FIR) emission within the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC)
on spatial scales between 0.05 and 1.5 kpc. On scales below ~1 kpc, the
radio-FIR correlation is clearly better than the correlation of the cold gas
tracers with either the radio or the FIR emission. For the LMC as a whole,
there is a tight correlation between the radio and FIR emission on spatial
scales above ~50 pc. By decomposing the radio emission into thermal and
non-thermal components, however, we show that the scale on which the radio-FIR
correlation breaks down is inversely proportional to the thermal fraction of
the radio emission: regions that show a strong correlation to very small scales
are the same regions where the thermal fraction of the radio emission is high.
Contrary to previous studies of the local radio-FIR correlation in the LMC, we
show that the slope of the relation between the radio and FIR emission is
non-linear. In bright star-forming regions, the radio emission increases faster
than linearly with respect to the FIR emission (power-law slope of ~1.2),
whereas a flatter slope of ~0.6-0.9 applies more generally across the LMC. Our
results are consistent with a scenario in which the UV photons and cosmic rays
in the LMC have a common origin in massive star formation, but the cosmic rays
are able to diffuse away from their production sites. Our results do not
provide direct evidence for coupling between the magnetic field and the local
gas density, but we note that synchrotron emission may not be a good tracer of
the magnetic field if cosmic rays can readily escape the LMC.