The fine dust detected by IR emission around the nearby Beta Pic analogue
star HD172555 is very peculiar. The dust mineralogy is composed primarily of
highly refractory, non-equilibrium materials, with approximately three-quarters
of the Si atoms in silica (SiO2) species. Tektite and obsidian lab thermal
emission spectra (non-equilibrium glassy silicas found in impact and magmatic
systems) are required to fit the data. The best-fit model size distribution for
the observed fine dust is dn/da = a-3.95 +/- 0.10. This steep a size
distribution, with abundant micron-sized particles, argues for a fresh source
of material within the last 0.1 Myr. The location of the dust with respect to
the star is at 5.8 +/- 0.6 AU (equivalent to 1.9 +/- 0.2 AU from the Sun),
within the terrestrial planet formation region but at the outer edge of any
possible terrestrial habitability zone. The mass of fine dust is 4 x 10^19 - 2
x 10^20 kg, equivalent to a 150 - 200 km radius asteroid. Significant emission
features centered at 4 and 8 um due to fluorescing SiO gas are also found.
Roughly 10^22 kg of SiO gas, formed by vaporizing silicate rock, is also
present in the system, and a separate population of very large, cool grains,
massing 10^21 - 10^22 kg and equivalent to the largest sized asteroid currently
found in the Solar System's main asteroid belt, dominates the solid
circumstellar material by mass. The makeup of the observed dust and gas, and
the noted lack of a dense circumstellar gas disk, strong primary x-ray
activity, or an extended disk of Beta-meteroids argues that the source of the
observed circumstellar materials is a giant hypervelocity (> 10 km sec^-1)
impact between large rocky planetesimals, similar to the ones which formed the
Moon and which stripped the surface crustal material off of Mercury's surface.