Vega and Fomalhaut, are similar in terms of mass, ages, and global debris
disk properties; therefore, they are often referred as "debris disk twins". We
present Spitzer 10-35 um spectroscopic data centered at both stars, and
identify warm, unresolved excess emission in the close vicinity of Vega for the
first time. The properties of the warm excess in Vega are further characterized
with ancillary photometry in the mid infrared and resolved images in the
far-infrared and submillimeter wavelengths. The Vega warm excess shares many
similar properties with the one found around Fomalhaut. The emission shortward
of ~30 um from both warm components is well described as a blackbody emission
of ~170 K. Interestingly, two other systems, eps Eri and HR 8799, also show
such an unresolved warm dust using the same approach. These warm components may
be analogous to the solar system's zodiacal dust cloud, but of far greater. The
dust temperature and tentative detections in the submillimeter suggest the warm
excess arises from dust associated with a planetesimal ring located near the
water-frost line and presumably created by processes occurring at similar
locations in other debris systems as well. We also review the properties of the
2 um hot excess around Vega and Fomalhaut, showing that the dust responsible
for the hot excess is not spatially associated with the dust we detected in the
warm belt. We suggest it may arise from hot nano grains trapped in the magnetic
field of the star. Finally, the separation between the warm and cold belt is
rather large with an orbital ratio >~10 in all four systems. In light of the
current upper limits on the masses of planetary objects and the large gap, we
discuss the possible implications for their underlying planetary architecture,
and suggest that multiple, low-mass planets likely reside between the two belts
in Vega and Fomalhaut.