We traced the age of the last star formation event (LSFE) in the inner Large
& Small Magellanic Cloud (L&SMC) using the photometric data from the Optical
Gravitational Lensing Experiment (OGLE-III) and the Magellanic Cloud
Photometric Survey (MCPS). The LSFE is estimated from the main-sequence turn
off point in the color-magnitude diagram (CMD) of a region. Extinction
corrected turn off magnitude is converted to age, which represents the LSFE in
a region. The spatial map of the LSFE age shows that the star formation has
shrunk to the central regions in the last 100Myr in both the galaxies. The
location and age of LSFE is found to correlate well with those of the star
cluster in both the Clouds. The SMC map shows two separate concentrations of
young star formation. We detect peaks of star formation at 0-10, 90-100Myr in
the LMC, and 0-10, 50- 60Myr in the SMC. The quenching of star formation in the
LMC is found to be asymmetric with respect to the optical center such that most
of the young star forming regions are located to the north and east. On
deprojecting the data on the LMC plane, the recent star formation appears to be
stretched in the north-east direction and the HI gas is found to be distributed
preferentially in the North. The centroid is found to shift to north in
200-40Myr, and to north-east in the last 40Myr. In the SMC, we detect a shift
in centroid of population of 500-40Myr in the direction of the LMC. We propose
that the HI gas in the LMC is pulled to the north of the LMC in the last 200Myr
due to the gravitational attraction of our Galaxy at the time of perigalactic
passage. The shifted HI gas is preferentially compressed in the north during
200-40Myr and in the north-east in the last 40Myr, due to the motion of the LMC
in the Galactic halo. The recent star formation in the SMC is due to the
combined gravitational effect of the LMC and the perigalactic passage.