We report on the first ultracool dwarf discoveries from the UKIRT Infrared
Deep Sky Survey (UKIDSS) Large Area Survey Early Data Release (LAS EDR), in
particular the discovery of T dwarfs which are fainter and more distant than
those found using the 2MASS and SDSS surveys. We aim to show that our
methodologies for searching the ~27 sq degs of the LAS EDR are successful for
finding both L and T dwarfs $via$ cross-correlation with the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey (SDSS) DR4 release. While the area searched so far is small, the numbers
of objects found shows great promise for near-future releases of the LAS and
great potential for finding large numbers of such dwarfs. Ultracool dwarfs are
selected by combinations of their YJH(K) UKIDSS colours and SDSS DR4 z-J and
i-z colours, or, lower limits on these red optical/infrared colours in the case
of DR4 dropouts. After passing visual inspection tests, candidates have been
followed up by methane imaging and spectroscopy at 4m and 8m-class facilities.
Our main result is the discovery following CH4 imaging and spectroscopy of a
T4.5 dwarf, ULASJ 1452+0655, lying ~80pc distant. A further T dwarf candidate,
ULASJ 1301+0023, has very similar CH4 colours but has not yet been confirmed
spectroscopically. We also report on the identification of a brighter L0 dwarf,
and on the selection of a list of LAS objects designed to probe for T-like
dwarfs to the survey J-band limit. Our findings indicate that the combination
of the UKIDSS LAS and SDSS surveys provide an excellent tool for identifying L
and T dwarfs down to much fainter limits than previously possible. Our
discovery of one confirmed and one probable T dwarf in the EDR is consistent
with expectations from the previously measured T dwarf density on the sky.