We use Chandra X-ray and Spitzer infrared observations to explore the AGN and
starburst populations of XMMXCS J2215.9-1738 at z=1.46, one of the most distant
spectroscopically confirmed galaxy clusters known. The high resolution X-ray
imaging reveals that the cluster emission is contaminated by point sources that
were not resolved in XMM observations of the system, and have the effect of
hardening the spectrum, leading to the previously reported temperature for this
system being overestimated. From a joint spectroscopic analysis of the Chandra
and XMM data, the cluster is found to have temperature T=4.1_-0.9^+0.6 keV and
luminosity L_X=(2.92_-0.35^+0.24)x10^44 erg/s extrapolated to a radius of 2
Mpc. As a result of this revised analysis, the cluster is found to lie on the
sigma_v-T relation, but the cluster remains less luminous than would be
expected from self-similar evolution of the local L_X-T relation. Two of the
newly discovered X-ray AGN are cluster members, while a third object, which is
also a prominent 24 micron source, is found to have properties consistent with
it being a high redshift, highly obscured object in the background. We find a
total of eight >5 sigma 24 micron sources associated with cluster members (four
spectroscopically confirmed, and four selected using photometric redshifts),
and one additional 24 micron source with two possible optical/near-IR
counterparts that may be associated with the cluster. Examining the IRAC colors
of these sources, we find one object is likely to be an AGN. Assuming that the
other 24 micron sources are powered by star formation, their infrared
luminosities imply star formation rates ~100 M_sun/yr. We find that three of
these sources are located at projected distances of <250 kpc from the cluster
center, suggesting that a large amount of star formation may be taking place in
the cluster core, in contrast to clusters at low redshift.