We discuss the physical properties of four quasar jets imaged with the
Chandra X-ray Observatory in the course of a survey for X-ray emission from
radio jets. These objects have sufficient counts to study their spatially
resolved properties, even in the 5 ks survey observations. We have acquired
Australia Telescope Compact Array data with resolution matching Chandra. We
have searched for optical emission with Magellan, with sub-arcsecond
resolution. The radio to X-ray spectral energy distribution for most of the
individual regions indicates against synchrotron radiation from a
single-component electron spectrum. We therefore explore the consequences of
assuming that the X-ray emission is the result of inverse Compton scattering on
the cosmic microwave background. If particles and magnetic fields are near
minimum energy density in the jet rest frames, then the emitting regions must
be relativistically beamed, even at distances of order 500 kpc from the quasar.
We estimate the magnetic field strengths, relativistic Doppler factors, and
kinetic energy flux as a function of distance from the quasar core for two or
three distinct regions along each jet. We develop, for the first time,
estimates in the uncertainties in these parameters, recognizing that they are
dominated by our assumptions in applying the standard synchrotron minimum
energy conditions. The kinetic power is comparable with, or exceeds, the quasar
radiative luminosity, implying that the jets are a significant factor in the
energetics of the accretion process powering the central black hole. The
measured radiative efficiencies of the jets are of order 10^(-4).