The COMPTEL unidentified source GRO J1411-64 was observed by INTEGRAL, and
its central part, also by XMM-Newton. The data analysis shows no hint for new
detections at hard X-rays. The upper limits in flux herein presented constrain
the energy spectrum of whatever was producing GRO J1411-64, imposing, in the
framework of earlier COMPTEL observations, the existence of a peak in power
output located somewhere between 300-700 keV for the so-called low state. The
Circinus Galaxy is the only source detected within the 4$\sigma$ location error
of GRO J1411-64, but can be safely excluded as the possible counterpart: the
extrapolation of the energy spectrum is well below the one for GRO J1411-64 at
MeV energies. 22 significant sources (likelihood $> 10$) were extracted and
analyzed from XMM-Newton data. Only one of these sources, XMMU
J141255.6-635932, is spectrally compatible with GRO J1411-64 although the fact
the soft X-ray observations do not cover the full extent of the COMPTEL source
position uncertainty make an association hard to quantify and thus risky. The
unique peak of the power output at high energies (hard X-rays and gamma-rays)
resembles that found in the SED seen in blazars or microquasars. However, an
analysis using a microquasar model consisting on a magnetized conical jet
filled with relativistic electrons which radiate through synchrotron and
inverse Compton scattering with star, disk, corona and synchrotron photons
shows that it is hard to comply with all observational constrains. This and the
non-detection at hard X-rays introduce an a-posteriori question mark upon the
physical reality of this source, which is discussed in some detail.