The turbulent magnetic fields of a large set of fast solar wind streams
measured onboard ACE and STEREO A and B are analyzed in an effort to identify
the effects of the turbulence-level broad variations on the orientations of the
local, time-averaged magnetic fields. The power level of turbulence, roughly
defined as the power in the transverse field fluctuations normalized to the
medium-scale average background field, tightly orders the location of the peaks
in the probability distribution functions (PDFs) of the angles between local
fields and Parker spiral. As a result, the broad variations in the power level
of turbulence cause a steep dependence of the average power level of turbulence
on the angle of the local field to the Parker spiral, with the highest
turbulence levels found near the normal to the Parker spiral and the lowest
levels near the Parker spiral direction. Generalized quasilinear estimates of
the mean cross-field displacements adapted to intermittent time-varying
turbulence lead to accurate fits of the observed angle PDFs at all stable
levels of turbulence, supporting the idea that isotropic turbulence could
account for the observed angle PDFs. Modeling of the angles alpha_r between
local fields and radial direction, from the PDFs of the angles alpha between
local and background fields under an assumption of axisymmetry of the turbulent
fields around a background field in or near the direction of the Parker spiral,
also produces fairly good fits of the observed PDFs of alpha_r, thereby
validating the assumption. Finally, local field reversals are found to be quite
common even within very broad streams of "unipolar" fast solar wind.