The SINR model for the quality of wireless connections has been the subject
of extensive recent study. It attempts to predict whether a particular
transmitter is heard at a specific location, in a setting consisting of $n$
simultaneous transmitters and background noise. The SINR model gives rise to a
natural geometric object, the SINR diagram, which partitions the space into $n$
regions where each of the transmitters can be heard and the remaining space
where no transmitter can be heard.
  Efficient point location in the SINR diagram, i.e., being able to build a
data structure that facilitates determining, for a query point, whether any
transmitter is heard there, and if so, which one, has been recently
investigated in several papers. These planar data structures are constructed in
time at least quadratic in $n$ and support logarithmic-time approximate
queries. Moreover, the performance of some of the proposed structures depends
strongly not only on the number $n$ of transmitters and on the approximation
parameter $\varepsilon$, but also on some geometric parameters that cannot be
bounded a priori as a function of $n$ or $\varepsilon$.
  We address the question of batched point location queries, i.e., answering
many queries simultaneously. Specifically, in one dimension, we can answer $n$
queries exactly in amortized polylogarithmic time per query, while in the plane
we can do it approximately.
  We also show how to answer $n^2$ queries exactly in amortized polylogarithmic
time per query, assuming the queries are located on a possibly non-uniform $n
\times n$ grid.
  All these results can handle arbitrary power assignments to the transmitters.
Moreover, the amortized query time in these results depends only on $n$ and
$\varepsilon$.
  These results demonstrate the (so far underutilized) power of combining
algebraic tools with those of computational geometry and other fields.