We have obtained mid-infrared images of the nucleus of NGC 1068 from the Hale
5 m telescope at Mt. Palomar with diffraction-limited resolution and high
sensitivity at 8.8, 10.3, and 12.5 microns. Deconvolved images show that the
infrared emission extends north to south in the inner 2", consisting of a
central peak, a component extending 1" north of the central source, a component
extending 1" south of the central source, and several smaller structures
located 1" to the northeast. The central peak is extended 0.4" N-S and
unresolved (<= 0.2") E-W. We find that 50 +/- 5% of the flux emerges from the
central 0.4" and that a single unresolved point source can account for only 27
+/- 5% of the total flux. However, if the central peak arises from optically
thick emission, we estimate that the emitting region has a projected area >= 2
pc^2, and may thus contain a compact source such as a parsec-scale torus. We
observe a correspondence between the northern extension and the northeastern
sources appearing on the mid-infrared images and the [OIII] clouds A-C & E. We
interpret the faint optical counterpart to the mid-infrared southern extension
as being due to partial obscuration by the intervening disk of the host galaxy.
The N-S extension of the mid-infrared emission coincides with one wall of the
conical narrow line region and aligns with the N-S orientation of the radio jet
close to the nucleus. We interpret the infrared emission as arising from
optically thick dust lining the walls of the low density cavity formed by the
radio jet and heated by radiation from the central source.