Wavefront sampling experiments record arrival times of \v{C}erenkov photons
with high precision at various locations in \v{C}erenkov pool using a
distributed array of telescopes. It was shown earlier that this photon front
can be fitted with a spherical surface traveling at a speed of light and
originating from a single point on the shower axis. Radius of curvature of the
spherical shower front ($R$) is approximately equal to the height of shower
maximum from observation level. For a given primary species, it is also found
that $R$ varies with the primary energy ($E$) and this provides a method of
estimating the primary energy. In general, one can estimate the arrival times
at each telescope using the radius of curvature, arrival direction of the
primary and the core location. This, when compared with the data enables us to
estimate the above parameters for each shower. This method of obtaining the
arrival direction alleviates the difficulty in the form of systematics arising
out of the plane wavefront approximation for the \v{C}erenkov front. Another
outstanding problem in the field of atmospheric \v{C}erenkov technique is the
difficulty in locating the shower core. This method seems to solve both these
problems and provides an elegant method to determine the arrival direction as
well as the core location from timing information alone. In addition, using the
\v{C}erenkov photon density information and the core position we can estimate
the energy of the primary if the nature of the primary is known. Combining
these two independent estimates of the primary energy, the energy resolution
can be further improved. Application of this methodology to simulated data and
the results will be presented. The intrinsic uncertainties on the various
estimated parameters also will be discussed.