For the four-dimensional SU(N) Euclidean Yang-Mills theory in the Landau
gauge, we present two sets of gauge field configurations that satisfy the
Euclidean equations of motion. These configurations generate four-dimensional
chromo-field flux sheets whose spatial cross sections are three-dimensional
chromo-field flux tubes. In lattice simulations, they may be detected as center
vortices. The first set of gauge field configurations generates chromo-electric
flux tubes that should contribute to a chromo-electric flux tube between two
static color charges. The string tension for two static color charges in
representation r then naturally satisfies the Casimir scaling. Applying a gauge
transformation to this set of gauge field configurations, we can transform them
into those in the maximal Abelian gauge. These transformed configurations
generate chromo-electric flux tubes that should contribute to those observed
between two static quarks in lattice simulations performed in the maximal
Abelian gauge. The second set of gauge field configurations generates
chromo-magnetic flux tubes. When rotated in a plane that includes the
temporal-axis and is perpendicular to the flux tube axis, the rotated gauge
field configuration generates a chromo-electric flux tube and should contribute
to the chromo-electric flux tubes observed in lattice simulations in the Landau
gauge. We also argue that when regulated on a lattice, any of the flux sheet
gauge field configuration with a finite flux sheet thickness is located on the
Gribov horizon in the infinite lattice volume limit. We thus suggest that these
sets of gauge field configurations contribute significantly to the low energy
properties of QCD, particularly the quark confinement.