The recent development of a new minimum mass solar nebula, under the
assumption that the giant planets formed in the compact configuration of the
Nice model, has shed new light on planet formation in the solar system. Desch
previously found that a steady state protoplanetary disk with an outer boundary
truncated by photoevaporation by an external massive star would have a steep
surface density profile. In a completely novel way, we have adapted numerical
methods for solving propagating phase change problems to astrophysical disks.
We find that a one-dimensional time-dependent disk model that self-consistently
tracks the location of the outer boundary produces shallower profiles than
those predicted for a steady state disk. The resulting surface density profiles
have a radial dependence of Sigma(r) \alpha r^(-1.25+0.88-0.33) with a
power-law exponent that in some models becomes as large as ~Sigma(r) \alpha
r^(-2.1). The evolutionary timescales of the model disks can be sped up or
slowed down by altering the amount of far-ultraviolet flux or the viscosity
parameter alpha. Slowing the evolutionary timescale by decreasing the incident
far ultraviolet flux, or similarly by decreasing alpha, can help to grow
planets more rapidly, but at the cost of decreased migration timescales.
Although they similarly affect relevant timescales, changes in the far
ultraviolet flux or alpha produce disks with drastically different outer radii.
Despite their differences, these disks are all characterized by outward mass
transport, mass loss at the outer edge, and a truncated outer boundary. The
transport of mass from small to large radii can potentially prevent the rapid
inward migration of Jupiter and Saturn, while at the same time supply enough
mass to the outer regions of the disk for the formation of Uranus and Neptune.