We present the results of dust continuum and molecular line observations of
two massive cluster-forming clumps, NGC 2264-C and NGC 2264-D, including
extensive mapping performed with the MAMBO bolometer array and the HERA
heterodyne array on the IRAM 30m telescope. Both NGC 2264 clumps are located in
the Mon OB1 giant molecular cloud complex, adjacent to one another. Twelve and
fifteen compact millimeter continuum sources (i.e. MMSs) are identified in
clumps C and D, respectively. Evidence for widespread infall motions is found
in, e.g., HCO+(3-2) or CS(3-2) in both NGC 2264-C and NGC 2264-D. A sharp
velocity discontinuity ~ 2 km/s in amplitude is observed in N_2H+(1-0) and
H^{13}CO+(1-0) in the central, innermost part of NGC 2264-C, which we interpret
as the signature of a strong dynamical interaction between two MMSs and their
possible merging with the central MMS C-MM3. Radiative transfer modelling
supports the idea that NGC 2264-C is a highly unstable prolate clump in the
process of collapsing along its long axis on a near free-fall dynamical
timescale ~ 1.7x10^5 yr. Our model fit of this large-scale collapse suggests a
maximum mass inflow rate ~ 3x10^{-3} Msun/yr toward the central protostellar
object C-MM3. Such infall rates are sufficiently high to overcome radiation
pressure and allow the formation of ~ 20 Msun stars by accretion in ~ 1.7x10^5
yr, i.e., a time similar to the global dynamical timescale of the central part
of NGC 2264-C. We conclude that we are likely witnessing the formation of a
high-mass (> 10 Msun) protostar in the central part of NGC 2264-C. Our results
suggest a picture of massive star formation intermediate between the scenario
of stellar mergers of Bonnell et al. (1998) and the massive turbulent core
model of McKee & Tan (2003).