Aims: To explore the infrared and radio properties of one of the closest
Galactic starburst regions. Methods: Images obtained with the Herschel Space
Observatory at wavelengths of 70, 160, 250, 350, and 500 microns using the PACS
and SPIRE arrays are analyzed and compared with radio continuum VLA data and 8
micron images from the Spitzer Space Telescope. The morphology of the
far-infrared emission is combined with radial velocity measurements of
millimeter and centimeter wavelength transitions to identify features likely to
be associated with the W43 complex. Results: The W43 star-forming complex is
resolved into a dense cluster of protostars, infrared dark clouds, and ridges
of warm dust heated by massive stars. The 4 brightest compact sources with L >
1.5 x 10^4 Lsun embedded within the Z-shaped ridge of bright dust emission in
W43 remain single at 4" (0.1 pc) resolution. These objects, likely to be
massive protostars or compact clusters in early stages of evolution are
embedded in clumps with masses of 10^3 to 10^4 Msun, but contribute only 2% to
the 3.6 x 10^6 Lsun far-IR luminosity of W43 measured in a 16 by 16 pc box. The
total mass of gas derived from the far-IR dust emission inside this region is
~10^6 Msun. Cometary dust clouds, compact 6 cm radio sources, and warm dust
mark the locations of older populations of massive stars. Energy release has
created a cavity blowing-out below the Galactic plane. Compression of molecular
gas in the plane by the older HII region near G30.684-0.260 and the bipolar
structure of the resulting younger W43 HII region may have triggered the
current mini-star burst.