The measurement of precise galaxy distances by Cepheid observations out to
the distance of the Virgo cluster is important for the determination of the
Hubble constant ($H_0$). The Virgo cluster is thereby often used as an
important stepping stone. The first HST measurement of the distance of a Virgo
galaxy (M100) using Cepheid variables provided a value for $H_0=80(\pm 17)$
km/s/Mpc (Freedman et al. 1994). This measurement was preceeded by a ground
based study of the Virgo spiral NGC4571 (Pierce et al. 1994) formally providing
$H_0= 87\pm7$ km/s/Mpc. These determinations rely on the accuracy with which
the position of this observed spiral galaxy can be located with respect to the
Virgo cluster center. This uncertainty introduces a major error in the
determination of $H_0$, together with the uncertainty in the adopted Virgo
infall velocity of the Local Group. Here we propose the use of spiral galaxies
which show clear signs of being stripped off their interstellar medium by the
intracluster gas of the Virgo cluster as targets for the Cepheid distance
measurements. We show that the stripping process and the knowledge of the
intracluster gas distribution from ROSAT X-ray observations allow us to locate
these galaxies with an at least three times higher precision with respect to
M87 than in the case of other spirals like M100. The X-ray observations further
imply that M87 is well centered within the intracluster gas halo of the Virgo
cluster and that M86 is associated with a group of galaxies and a larger dark
matter halo. The combination of these informations could enable us to locate
the two stripped spiral galaxies quite precisely within the Virgo cluster and
could greatly improve the determination of the Virgo cluster distance.