We present a subset of multi-wavelengths observations obtained with the
Japanese Hinode mission, the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO), and the Vacuum
Tower Telescope (VTT) at Observatorio del Teide, Tenerife, Spain during the
time period from 2010 November 18-23. Horizontal proper motions were derived
from G-band and Ca II H images, whereas line-of-sight velocities were extracted
from VTT Echelle H-alpha 656.28 nm spectra and Fe I 630.25 nm spectral data of
the Hinode/Spectro-Polarimeter, which also provided three-dimensional magnetic
field information. The Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager on board SDO provided
continuum images and line-of-sight magnetograms as context for the
high-resolution observations for the entire disk passage of the active region.
  We have performed a quantitative study of photospheric and chromospheric flow
fields in and around decaying sunspots. In one of the trailing sunspots of
active region NOAA 11126, we observed moat flow and moving magnetic features
(MMFs), even after its penumbra had decayed. We also noticed a superpenumbral
structure around this pore. MMFs follow well-defined, radial paths from the
spot all the way to the border of a supergranular cell surrounding the spot. In
contrast, flux emergence near the other sunspot prevented it from establishing
such well ordered flow patterns, which could even be observed around a tiny
pore of just 2 Mm diameter. After the disappearance of the sunspots/pores a
coherent patch of abnormal granulation remained at their location, which was
characterized by more uniform horizontal proper motions, low divergence values,
and diminished photospheric Doppler velocities. This region, thus, differs
significantly from granulation and other areas covered by G-band bright points.
We conclude that this peculiar flow pattern is a signature of sunspot decay and
the dispersal of magnetic flux.