We present images of C110$\alpha$ and H110$\alpha$ radio recombination line
(RRL) emission at 4.8 GHz and images of H166$\alpha$, C166$\alpha$ and
X166$\alpha$ RRL emission at 1.4 GHz, observed toward the starforming region
NGC 2024. The 1.4 GHz image with angular resolution $\sim$ 70\arcsec\ is
obtained using VLA data. The 4.8 GHz image with angular resolution $\sim$
17\arcsec\ is obtained by combining VLA and GBT data. The similarity of the LSR
velocity (10.3 \kms\) of the C110$\alpha$ line to that of lines observed from
molecular material located at the far side of the \HII\ region suggests that
the photo dissociation region (PDR) responsible for C110$\alpha$ line emission
is at the far side. The LSR velocity of C166$\alpha$ is 8.8 \kms. This velocity
is comparable with the velocity of molecular absorption lines observed from the
foreground gas, suggesting that the PDR is at the near side of the \HII\
region. Non-LTE models for carbon line forming regions are presented. Typical
properties of the foreground PDR are $T_{PDR} \sim 100$ K, $n_e^{PDR} \sim 5$
\cmthree, $n_H \sim 1.7 \times 10^4$ \cmthree, path length $l \sim 0.06$ pc and
those of the far side PDR are $T_{PDR} \sim$ 200 K, $n_e^{PDR} \sim$ 50
\cmthree, $n_H \sim 1.7 \times 10^5$ \cmthree, $l \sim$ 0.03 pc. Our modeling
indicates that the far side PDR is located within the \HII\ region. We estimate
magnetic field strength in the foreground PDR to be 60 $\mu$G and that in the
far side PDR to be 220 $\mu$G. Our field estimates compare well with the values
obtained from OH Zeeman observations toward NGC 2024.