We present V and I equivalent HST/WFPC2 photometry of two areas in the Large
Magellanic Cloud: The southern part of the stellar association LH 52, located
on the western edge of the super-shell LMC 4, and a field between two
associations, which is located on the southwestern edge of the shell, and which
accounts for the general background field of the galaxy. The HST/WFPC2
observations reach magnitudes as faint as V=25 mag, much deeper than have been
observed earlier in stellar associations in the LMC. We determine the MF for
main-sequence stars in the areas. Its slope (Gamma) in both areas is steeper
for stars with masses M < 2 M_solar (-4 < Gamma < -6), compared with stars of M
> 2 M_solar (-1 < Gamma < -2). Thus, as far as the field of the LMC concerns
the MF does not have a uniform slope throughout its observed mass range. The MF
of the general field of the LMC was found previously to be steeper than the MF
of a stellar association for massive stars with M > 5 M_solar. We conclude that
this seems to be also the case toward lower masses down to M ~ 1 M_solar. Our
data allow to construct the field-subtracted, incompleteness-corrected,
main-sequence MF of the southwestern part of the young stellar association LH
52, which accounts for the Initial Mass Function (IMF) of the system. Its mean
slope is found to be comparable, but still more shallow than a typical Salpeter
IMF (Gamma = -1.12 +/- 0.24) for masses down to ~ 1 M_solar. We found
indications that the IMF of the association probably is ``top-heavy'', due to
the large number of intermediate-mass stars in the field of the system, while
the general LMC field is found to be responsible for the low-mass population,
with M < 2 M_solar, observed in both fields.