With the arrival of km**3 volume scale neutrino detectors the chances to
detect the first astronomical sources of TeV neutrinos will be dramatically
increased. While the theoretical estimates of the neutrino fluxes contain large
uncertainties, we can formulate the conditions for the detectability of certain
neutrino sources phenomenologically. In fact, since most galactic neutrino
sources are transparent for TeV gamma-rays, their detectability implies a
minimum flux of the accompanying gamma-rays. For a typical energy-dependence of
detection areas of km**3 volume neutrino detectors, we obtain the quantitative
condition I_gamma(20 TeV)>2*10^-15 ph/(cm**2 s), that thanks to the
normalization of the gamma-ray spectrum at 20 TeV appears to be quite robust,
i.e. almost independent of the shape of energy spectrum of neutrinos. We remark
that this condition is satisfied by the young supernova remnants RX
J1713.7-3946 and RX J0852.0-4622 (Vela Jr) - two of the strongest galactic
gamma-ray sources. The preliminary condition for the detectability of high
energy neutrinos is that the bulk of gamma-rays has a hadronic origin: A new
way to test this hypothesis for RX J1713.7-3946 is proposed. Finally, we assess
the relevance of a neutrino detector located in the Northern Hemisphere for the
search for galactic neutrino sources. In particular, we argue that if the TeV
neutrino sources correlate with the galactic mass distribution, the probability
that some of them will be observed by a detector in the Mediterranean Sea is
larger by a factor of 1.4-2.9 compared to the one of IceCube.