In the last decade star clusters have been found in the centers of spiral
galaxies across all Hubble types. We here present a spectroscopic study of the
exceptionally bright (10^6 - 10^8 Lsun) but compact (Re ~ 5 pc) nuclear star
clusters in very late type spirals with UVES at the VLT. We find the velocity
dispersions of the nine clusters in our sample to range from 13 to 34 km/s.
Using photometric data from the HST/WFPC2 and spherically symmetric dynamical
models we determine masses between 8*10^5 and 6*10^7 Msun. The mass to light
ratios range from 0.2 to 1.5 in the I band. This indicates a young mean age for
most clusters, in agreement with previous studies. Given their high masses and
small sizes we find that nuclear clusters are among the objects with the
highest mean surface density known (up to 10^5 Msun pc^-2). From their
dynamical properties we infer that, rather than small bulges, the closest
structural kin of nuclear clusters appear to be massive compact star clusters.
This includes such different objects as globular clusters, "super star
clusters", ultra compact dwarf galaxies and the nuclei of dwarf elliptical
galaxies. It is a challenge to explain why, despite the wildly different
current environments, all different types of massive star clusters share very
similar and structural properties. A possible explanation links UCDs and
massive globular clusters to nuclear star clusters through stripping of
nucleated dwarf galaxies in a merger event. The extreme properties of this type
of clusters would then be a consequence of their location in the centers of
their respective host galaxies.