Colliding winds of massive star binary systems are considered as potential
sites of non-thermal high-energy photon production. This is motivated merely by
the detection of synchrotron radio emission from the expected colliding wind
location. Here we investigate the properties of high-energy photon production
in colliding winds of long-period WR+OB-systems. We found that in the
dominating leptonic radiation process anisotropy and Klein-Nishina effects may
yield spectral and variability signatures in the gamma-ray domain at or above
the sensitivity of current or upcoming gamma-ray telescopes. Analytical
formulae for the steady-state particle spectra are derived assuming diffusive
particle acceleration out of a pool of thermal wind particles, and taking into
account adiabatic and all relevant radiative losses. For the first time we
include their advection/convection in the wind collision zone, and distinguish
two regions within this extended region: the acceleration region where spatial
diffusion is superior to convective/advective motion, and the convection region
defined by the convection time shorter than the diffusion time scale. The
calculation of the Inverse Compton radiation uses the full Klein-Nishina cross
section, and takes into account the anisotropic nature of the scattering
process. This leads to orbital flux variations by up to several orders of
magnitude which may, however, be blurred by the geometry of the system. The
calculations are applied to the typical WR+OB-systems WR 140 and WR 147 to
yield predictions of their expected spectral and temporal characteristica and
to evaluate chances to detect high-energy emission with the current and
upcoming gamma-ray experiments. (abridged)