In this paper we present a high-resolution spectroscopic analysis of the
chemically peculiar star HD207561. During a survey programme to search for new
roAp stars in the Northern hemisphere, Joshi et al. (2006) observed significant
photometric variability on two consecutive nights in the year 2000. The
amplitude spectra of the light curves obtained on these two nights showed
oscillations with a frequency of 2.79 mHz [P~6-min]. However, subsequent
follow-up observations could not confirm any rapid variability. In order to
determine the spectroscopic nature of HD207561, high-resolution spectroscopic
and spectro-polarimetric observations were carried out. A reasonable fit of the
calculated Hbeta line profile to the observed one yields the effective
temperature (Teff) and surface gravity (log g) as 7300 K and 3.7 dex,
respectively. The derived projected rotational velocity (vsin i) for HD207561
is 74 km/sec indicative of a relatively fast rotator. The position of HD207561
in the H-R diagram implies that this is slightly evolved from the main-sequence
and located well within the delta-Scuti instability strip. The abundance
analysis indicates the star has slight under-abundances of Ca and Sc and mild
over-abundances of iron-peak elements. The spectro-polarimetric study of
HD207561 shows that the effective magnetic field is within the observational
error of 100 gauss (G). The spectroscopic analysis revealed that the star has
most of the characteristics similar to an Am star, rather than an Ap star, and
that it lies in the delta-Scuti instability strip; hence roAp pulsations are
not expected in HD207561, but low-overtone modes might be excited.