This paper presents a study of the ISW effect from the Planck 2015
temperature and polarization data release. The CMB is cross-correlated with
different LSS tracers: the NVSS, SDSS and WISE catalogues, and the Planck 2015
convergence lensing map. This cross-correlation yields a detection at
$4\,\sigma$, where most of the signal-to-noise is due to the Planck lensing and
NVSS. In fact, the ISW effect is detected only from the Planck data (through
the ISW-lensing bispectrum) at $\approx 3\,\sigma$, which is similar to the
detection level achieved by combining the cross-correlation signal coming from
all the catalogues. This cross-correlation analysis is performed only with the
Planck temperature data, since the polarization scales available in the 2015
release do not permit significant improvement of the CMB-LSS cross-correlation
detectability. Nevertheless, polarization data is used to study the anomalously
large ISW signal previously reported through the aperture photometry on stacked
CMB features at the locations of known superstructures, which is in conflict
with $\Lambda$CDM expectations. We find that the current Planck polarization
data do not reject that this signal could be caused by the ISW effect. In
addition, the stacking of the Planck lensing map on the superstructures'
locations exhibits a positive cross-correlation with these large-scale
structures. Finally, we have improved our previous reconstruction of the ISW
temperature fluctuations by combining the information encoded in all the
previously mentioned LSS tracers. In particular, we construct a map of the ISW
secondary anisotropies and the corresponding uncertainties map, obtained from
simulations. We also explore the reconstruction of the ISW anisotropies caused
by the LSS traced by the 2MPZ survey, by directly inverting the density field
into the gravitational potential field.