We investigate by two-dimensional axisymmetric relativistic hydrodynamical
simulations (1) jet propagations through an envelope of a rapidly rotating and
collapsing massive star, which is supposed to be a progenitor of long duration
gamma ray bursts (GRBs), (2) breakouts and subsequent expansions into stellar
winds and (3) accompanying photospheric emissions. We find that if the envelope
rotates uniformly almost at the mass shedding limit, its outer part stops
contracting eventually when the centrifugal force becomes large enough. Then
another shock wave is formed, propagates outwards and breaks out of the
envelope into the stellar wind. Which breaks out earlier, the jet or the
centrifugal bounce-induced shock, depends on the timing of jet injection. If
the shock breakout occurs earlier owing to a later injection, the jet
propagation and subsequent photospheric emissions are affected substantially.
We pay particular attention to observational consequences of the difference in
the timing of jet injection. We calculate optical depths to find the location
of photospheres, extracting densities and temperatures at appropriate retarded
times from the hydrodynamical data. We show that the luminosity and observed
temperature of the photospheric emissions are both much lower than those
reported in previous studies. Although luminosities are still high enough for
GRBs, the observed temperature are lower than the energy at the spectral peak
expected by the Yonetoku-relation. This may imply that energy exchanges between
photons and matter are terminated deeper inside or some non-thermal processes
are operating to boost photon energies.