Experimental microstylolites have been observed at stressed contacts between
quartz grains loaded for several weeks in the presence of an aqueous silica
solution, at 350 8C and 50 MPa of differential stress. Stereoscopic analysis of
pairs of SEM images yielded a digital elevation model of the surface of the
microstylolites. Fourier analyses of these microstylolites reveal a self-affine
roughness (with a roughness exponent H of 1.2). Coupled with observations of
close interactions between dissolution pits and stylolitic peaks, these data
illustrate a possible mechanism for stylolite formation. The complex geometry
of stylolite surfaces is imposed by the interplay between the development of
dissolution peaks in preferential locations (fast dissolution pits) and the
mechanical properties of the solid-fluid-solid interfaces. Simple mechanical
modeling expresses the crucial competition that could rule the development of
microstylolites: (i) a stress-related process, modeled in terms of the
stiffness of springs that activate the heterogeneous dissolution rates of the
solid interface, promotes the deflection. In parallel, (ii) the strength of the
solid interface, modeled in terms of the stiffness of a membrane, is equivalent
to a surface tension that limits the deflection and opposes its development.
The modeling produces stylolitic surfaces with characteristic geometries
varying from conical to columnar when both the effect of dissolution-rate
heterogeneity and the strength properties of the rock are taken into account. A
self-affine roughness exponent (Hz1.2) measured on modeled surfaces is
comparable with natural stylolites at small length scale and experimental
microstylolites.