We analyze how the process of dust settling affects the spectral energy
distribution and optical appearance of protoplanetary disks. Using simple
analytic estimates on the one hand, and detailed 1+1-D models on the other
hand, we show that, while the time scale for settling down to the equator may
exceed the life time of the disk, it takes much less time for even small grains
of 0.1 micron to settle down to a few pressure scale heights. This is often
well below the original location of the disk's photosphere, and the disk
therefore becomes effectively 'flatter'. If turbulent stirring is included, a
steady state solution can be found, which is typically reached after a few
times 1E5 years. Dependent on the strength of the turbulence, the shape of the
disk in such a steady state can be either fully flaring, or flaring only up to
a certain radius and self-shadowed beyond that radius. We show that these
partly self-shadowed disks have a much weaker mid- to far-infrared flux than
the fully flaring ones. We also show that these self-shadowed regions of the
disk are very weak in resolved images of scattered light, in contrast to the
fully flaring disks. From the calculations with compact grains it follows that,
after about 1E6 years, most disks should be self-shadowed. The fact that some
older disks are still observed with the characteristics of flaring disks
therefore seems somewhat inconsistent with the time scales predicted by the
settling model based on compact grains. This suggests that perhaps even the
small grains (lesssim 0.1 micron) have a porous or fractal structure, or that
the different geometries of observed disks is merely a reflection of the
turbulent state of these disks.