Pregnant women have increased susceptibility to malaria infection. In these
women, malaria parasites are frequently found sequestered in the placental
intervillous spaces, a condition referred to as placental malaria (PM).
Placental malaria threatens the health of the mother and the child's life by
causing still births and reduction in gestational age. An estimated 24 million
pregnant women in Sub-Saharan Africa are at risk. Mechanisms responsible for
increased susceptibility in pregnant women are not fully understood. Pregnancy
malaria studies have been limited by the lack of a suitable animal model. This
research aimed to develop a baboon (Papio anubis) model for studying PM. The
pregnancies of three adult female baboons were synchronized and their
gestational levels confirmed by ultrasonography. On the 150th day of gestation
the pregnant baboons were infected with Plasmodium knowlesi H strain parasites
together with four nulligravid control baboons. Parasitaemia was monitored from
two days post inoculation until the 159th day of gestation when caesarean
section was done on one baboon in order to obtain the placenta. Two baboons
aborted their conceptus. Smears prepared from placental blood demonstrated the
presence of Plasmodium knowlesi parasites in all the three sampled placentas.
These new findings show that P. knowlesi sequesters in the baboon placenta. In
addition, this study has characterized haemoglobin, eosinophil, Immunoglobulin
G and Immunoglobulin M profiles in this model. Thus a non human primate
(baboon) model for studying PM has been established. The established baboon -
P. knowlesi model for studying human placental/pregnancy malaria now offers an
opportunity for circumventing the obstacles experienced during human studies
like having inadequate tissue for analysis, inaccurate estimation of
gestational age, moral, ethical and financial limitations.