Saturn's main rings exhibit variations in both their opacity and spectral
properties on a broad range of spatial scales, and the correlations between
these parameters can provide insights into the processes that shape the
composition and dynamics of the rings. The Visual and Infrared Mapping
Spectrometer (VIMS) instrument onboard the Cassini Spacecraft has obtained
spectra of the rings between 0.35 and 5.2 microns with sufficient spatial
resolution to discern variations on scales below 200 km. These relatively
high-resolution spectral data reveal that both the depths of the near-infrared
water-ice absorption bands and the visible spectral slopes are often correlated
with structural parameters such as the rings' optical depth. Using a simplified
model for the ring-particles' regolith properties, we have begun to disentangle
the trends due to changes in the gross composition of the ring particles from
those that may be due to shifts in the texture of the ring particles' regolith.
Consistent with previous studies, this analysis finds that the C ring and the
Cassini Division possess enhanced concentrations of a contaminant that absorbs
light over a broad range of wavelengths. On the other hand, a second
contaminant that preferentially absorbs at short visible and near-ultraviolet
wavelengths is found to be more evenly distributed throughout the rings. The
optical activity of this short-wavelength absorber increases in the inner B
ring inwards of 100,000 km from Saturn center, which may provide clues to the
origin of this contaminant. The spectral variations identified as shifts in the
regolith texture are in some places clearly correlated with the ring's optical
depth, and in other locations they appear to be associated with the
disturbances generated by strong mean-motion resonances with Saturn's various
moons.