The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) is a private
non-profit company which, pursuant to contracts with the US government, acts as
the de facto regulator for DNS policy. ICANN decides what TLDs will be made
available to users, and which registrars will be permitted to offer those TLDs
for sale. In this article we focus on a hitherto-neglected implication of
ICANN's assertion that it is a private rather than a public actor: its
potential liability under the U.S. antitrust laws, and the liability of those
who transact with it. ICANN argues that it is not as closely tied to the
government as NSI and IANA were in the days before ICANN was created. If this
is correct, it seems likely that ICANN will not benefit from the antitrust
immunity those actors enjoyed. Some of ICANN's regulatory actions may restrain
competition, e.g. its requirement that applicants for new gTLDs demonstrate
that their proposals would not enable competitive (alternate) roots and ICANN's
preventing certain types of non-price competition among registrars (requiring
the UDRP). ICANN's rule adoption process might be characterized as
anticompetitive collusion by existing registrars, who are likely not be subject
to the Noerr-Pennington lobbying exemption. Whether ICANN has in fact violated
the antitrust laws depends on whether it is an antitrust state actor, whether
the DNS is an essential facility, and on whether it can shelter under
precedents that protect standard-setting bodies. If (as seems likely) a private
ICANN and those who petition it are subject to antitrust law, everyone involved
in the process needs to review their conduct with an eye towards legal
liability. ICANN should act very differently with respect to both the UDRP and
the competitive roots if it is to avoid restraining trade.