Non-thermal pressure from turbulence and bulk flows is a fundamental
ingredient in hot gaseous halos, and in the intracluster medium it will be
measured through X-ray emission line kinematics with the X-ray calorimeters on
the upcoming Astro-H spacecraft. In this paper we present a complementary
method for measuring these effects, using forbidden FUV emission lines of
highly ionized Iron ions which trace $10^7$ K gas. The brightest of these lines
is [Fe XXI] $\lambda$1354.1, and we discuss this line as well one of its weaker
companions [Fe XIX] $\lambda$1118.1. We search for emission from these lines in
archival HST-COS spectra from the well-known elliptical galaxies M87 and NGC
4696. Positive residuals are observed at the expected locations of these lines,
and the inferred fluxes are close to the predicted fluxes based on X-ray
observations, but the archival observations are relatively short and so the
detections are not significant (S/N = 1.0, 0.7, and 0.2 for [Fe XXI] and S/N =
0.3 for [Fe XIX]). We place 90% upper limits on the line flux in each case.
Using our limits, we perform emission measure analysis, constraining the
characteristic path length and column density of the $\sim10^7$ K gas. We
discuss the requirements for future HST-COS observations, and show that
observations of less than 30 orbits could detect [Fe XXI] in M87 at 5$\sigma$
or better, allowing measurements of the line broadening due to subsonic
turbulence and of the contribution of turbulence and bulk motions to the
non-thermal pressure of the hot halo gas.