We present imaging at 19, 25, 31, and 37 {\mu}m of the compact HII region
complex G-0.02-0.07 located 6 pc in projection from the center of the Galaxy
obtained with SOFIA using FORCAST. G-0.02-0.07 contains three compact HII
regions (A, B, and C) and one ultra-compact HII region (D). Our observations
reveal the presence of two faint, infrared sources located 23'' and 35'' to the
east of region C (FIRS 1 and 2) and detect dust emission in two of the three
"ridges" of ionized gas west of region A. The 19/37 color temperature and 37
{\mu}m optical depth maps of regions A - C are used to characterize the dust
energetics and morphology. Regions A and B exhibit average 19/37 color
temperatures of ~105 K, and regions C and D exhibit color temperatures of ~115
K and ~130 K, respectively. Using the DustEM code we model the SEDs of regions
A - D and FIRS 1, all of which require populations of very small, transiently
heated grains and large, equilibrium-heated grains. We also require the
presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in regions A - C in order
to fit the 3.6, 4.5, 5.8, and 8.0 {\mu}m fluxes observed by Spitzer/IRAC. The
location of the heating source for region A is determined by triangulation from
distances and temperatures derived from DustEM models fit to SEDs of three
different points around the region, and is found to be displaced to the
northeast of the center of curvature near the color temperature peak. Based on
total luminosity, expected 1.90 {\mu}m fluxes, and proximity to the mid-IR
color temperature peaks we identify heating source candidates for regions A, B,
and C. However, for region D, the observed fluxes at 1.87 and 1.90 {\mu}m of
the previously proposed ionizing star are a factor of ~40 times too bright to
be the heating source and hence is likely just a star lying along the line of
sight towards region D.