Radio properties of supernova outbursts remain poorly understood despite
longstanding campaigns following events discovered at other wavelengths. After
~ 30 years of observations, only ~ 50 supernovae have been detected at radio
wavelengths, none of which are Type Ia. Even the most radio-loud events are ~
10^4 fainter in the radio than in the optical; to date, such intrinsically dim
objects have only been visible in the very local universe. The detection and
study of radio supernovae (RSNe) will be fundamentally altered and dramatically
improved as the next generation of radio telescopes comes online, including
EVLA, ASKAP, and MeerKAT, and culminating in the Square Kilometer Array (SKA);
the latter should be > 50 times more sensitive than present facilities. SKA can
repeatedly scan large (> 1 deg^2) areas of the sky, and thus will discover RSNe
and other transient sources in a new, automatic, untargeted, and unbiased way.
We estimate SKA will be able to detect core-collapse RSNe out to redshift z ~
5, with an all-redshift rate ~ 620 events yr^-1 deg^-2, assuming a survey
sensitivity of 50 nJy and radio lightcurves like those of SN 1993J. Hence SKA
should provide a complete core-collapse RSN sample that is sufficient for
statistical studies of radio properties of core-collapse supernovae. EVLA
should find ~ 160 events yr^-1 deg^-2 out to redshift z ~ 3, and other SKA
precursors should have similar detection rates. We also provided
recommendations of the survey strategy to maximize the RSN detections of SKA.
This new radio core-collapse supernovae sample will complement the detections
from the optical searches, such as the LSST, and together provide crucial
information on massive star evolution, supernova physics, and the circumstellar
medium, out to high redshift. Additionally, SKA may yield the first radio Type
Ia detection via follow-up of nearby events discovered at other wavelengths.