PILOT (the Pathfinder for an International Large Optical Telescope is a
proposed 2.5 m optical/infrared telescope to be located at DomeC on the
Antarctic plateau. The atmospheric conditions at Dome C deliver a high
sensitivity, high photometric precision, wide-field, high spatial resolution,
and high-cadence imaging capability to the PILOT telescope. These capabilities
enable a unique scientific potential for PILOT, which is addressed in this
series of papers. The current paper presents a series of projects dealing with
the nearby Universe that have been identified as key science drivers for the
PILOT facility. Several projects are proposed that examine stellar populations
in nearby galaxies and stellar clusters in order to gain insight into the
formation and evolution processes of galaxies and stars. A series of projects
will investigate the molecular phase of the Galaxy and explore the ecology of
star formation, and investigate the formation processes of stellar and
planetary systems. Three projects in the field of exoplanet science are
proposed: a search for free-floating low-mass planets and dwarfs, a program of
follow-up observations of gravitational microlensing events, and a study of
infrared light-curves for previously discovered exoplanets. Three projects are
also proposed in the field of planetary and space science: optical and
near-infrared studies aimed at characterising planetary atmospheres, a study of
coronal mass ejections from the Sun, and a monitoring program searching for
small-scale Low Earth Orbit satellite debris items.