We present observations of IRAS 16293-2422 using the Submillimeter Array
(SMA) at 300 GHz, and the Very Large Array (VLA) at frequencies from 1.5 to 43
GHz. This source was already known to be a binary system with components A and
B separated by ~5". The new SMA data now separate source A into two submm
continuum components, denoted Aa and Ab. The strongest of these, Aa, peaks
between the cm radio sources A1 and A2. Archival VLA data show proper motion of
sources A and B of 17 mas/yr, associated with motion of the rho Ophiuchi cloud.
We also find relative motion between A1 and A2 which excludes the possibility
that they are gravitationally bound. A2 remains stationary relative to source
B, and we identify it as the protostar driving the NE-SW CO outflow. A1 is
shock-ionized gas where a precessing jet interacts with dense gas. This jet
probably drives the E-W CO outflow. The origin of this jet must be located
close to A2, and may be the submm source Aa. Thus source A is now shown to
comprise three components within 1". Source B, however, is single, exhibits
optically-thick dust emission even at 8 GHz, has a high luminosity, and yet
shows no sign of outflow, indicating it is probably very young.
  The SMA spectrum of IRAS 16293-2422 reports the first astronomical
identification of many lines at 300 and 310 GHz. The species detected are
typical of hot cores, and are mainly associated with source A. We suggest the
shock at A1 may explain the enhanced abundances measured, especially of
sulphur-bearing molecules. We use the high brightness temperature of the submm
dust emission from source B to demonstrate the unambiguous detection of infall
by observing redshifted SO (7_7-6_6) absorption against the dust disk.