We present the results of wide-field deep JHK imaging of the SSA22 field
using MOIRCS instrument equipped with Subaru telescope. The observed field is
112 arcmin^2 in area, which covers the z=3.1 protocluster characterized by the
overdensities of Ly Alpha emitters (LAEs) and Ly Alpha Blobs (LABs). The 5
sigma limiting magnitude is K_{AB} = 24.3. We extract the potential
protocluster members from the K-selected sample by using the multi-band
photometric-redshift selection as well as the simple color cut for distant red
galaxies (DRGs; J-K_{AB}>1.4). The surface number density of DRGs in our
observed fields shows clear excess compared with those in the blank fields, and
the location of the densest area whose projected overdensity is twice the
average coincides with the large-scale density peak of LAEs. We also found that
K-band counterparts with z_{phot} = 3.1 are detected for 75% (15/20) of the
LABs within their Ly Alpha halo, and the 40 % (8/20) of LABs have multiple
components, which gives a direct evidence of the hierarchical multiple merging
in galaxy formation. The stellar mass ofLABs correlates with their luminosity,
isophotal area, and the Ly Alpha velocity widths, implying that the physical
scale and the dynamical motion of Ly Alpha emission are closely related to
their previous star-formation activities. Highly dust-obscured galaxies such as
hyper extremely red objects (HEROs; J-K_{AB}>2.1) and plausible K-band
counterparts of submillimeter sources are also populated in the high density
region.