Hierarchical models of structure formation predict that galaxy clusters grow
via mergers of smaller clusters and galaxy groups, as well as through
continuous accretion of gas. MACS J0717.5+3745 is an X-ray luminous and complex
merging cluster, located at a redshift of 0.55. Here we present Giant Metrewave
Radio Telescope (GMRT) radio observations at 610 MHz of this cluster. The main
aim of the observations is to search for diffuse radio emission within the
galaxy cluster MACS J0717.5+3745 related to the ongoing merger. These GMRT
observations are complemented by Very Large Array (VLA) archival observations
at 1.4, 4.9 and 8.5 GHz. We have discovered a radio halo in the cluster MACS
J0717.5+3745 with a size of about 1.2 Mpc. The radio power P_1.4 GHz is 5 x
10^25 W/Hz, which makes it the most powerful radio halo known till date. A 700
kpc radio structure, which we classify as a radio relic, is located in between
the merging substructures of the system. The location of this relic roughly
coincides with regions of the intra-cluster medium (ICM) that have a
significant enhancement in temperature as shown by Chandra. The major axis of
the relic is also roughly perpendicular to the merger axis. This shows that the
relic might be the result of a merger-related shock wave, where particles are
accelerated via the diffuse shock acceleration (DSA) mechanism. Alternatively,
the relic might trace an accretion shock of a large-scale galaxy filament to
the south-west. The global spectral index of radio emission within the cluster
is found to be -1.24 +/-0.05 between 4.9 GHz and 610 MHz. We derive a value of
5.8 microGauss for the equipartition magnetic field strength at the location of
the radio halo. [abridged].