[abridged] Our knowledge of the inner structure of embedded massive young
stellar objects is still quite limited. We attempt here to overcome the spatial
resolution limitations of conventional thermal infrared imaging. We employed
mid-infrared interferometry using the MIDI instrument on the ESO/VLTI facility
to investigate M8E-IR, a well-known massive young stellar object suspected of
containing a circumstellar disk. Spectrally dispersed visibilities in the 8-13
micron range were obtained at seven interferometric baselines. We resolve the
mid-infrared emission of M8E-IR and find typical sizes of the emission regions
of the order of 30 milli-arcseconds (~45 AU). Radiative transfer simulations
have been performed to interpret the data. The fitting of the spectral energy
distribution, in combination with the measured visibilities, does not provide
evidence for an extended circumstellar disk with sizes > 100 AU but requires
the presence of an extended envelope. The data are not able to constrain the
presence of a small-scale disk in addition to an envelope. In either case, the
interferometry measurements indicate the existence of a strongly bloated,
relatively cool central object, possibly tracing the recent accretion history
of M8E-IR. In addition, we present 24.5 micron images that clearly distinguish
between M8E-IR and the neighbouring ultracompact HII region and which show the
cometary-shaped infrared morphology of the latter source. Our results show that
IR interferometry, combined with radiative transfer modelling, can be a viable
tool to reveal crucial structure information on embedded massive young stellar
objects and to resolve ambiguities arising from fitting the SED.