I Zw 18 is the most metal poor star-forming galaxy known and is an ideal
laboratory to probe stellar evolution theory at low metallicities. Using
archival HST WFPC2 imaging and FOS spectroscopy we were able to improve
previous studies. We constructed a continuum free HeII map, which was used to
identify Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars recently found by ground-based spectroscopy and
to locate diffuse nebular emission. Most of the HeII emission is associated
with the NW stellar cluster, clearly displaced from the surrounding shell-like
[OIII] and Halpha emission. We found evidence for HeII sources, compatible with
5--9 WNL stars and/or compact nebular HeII emission, as well as residual
diffuse emission. Only one of them is outside the NW cluster. We have
calculated evolutionary tracks for massive stars and synthesis models at the
appropriate metallicity (Z ~ 0.02 Zsun). These single star models predict a
mass limit M_WR ~ 90 Msun for WR stars to become WN and WC/WO. For an
instantaneous burst model with a Salpeter IMF extending up to M_up ~ 120-150
Msun our model predictions are in reasonable agreement with the observed
equivalent widths. Our model is also able to fully reproduce the observed
equivalent widths of nebular HeII emission due to the presence of WC/WO stars.
This quantitative agreement and the spatial correlation of nebular HeII with
the stellar cluster and the position of WR stars shown from the ground-based
spectra further supports the hypothesis that WR stars are responsible for
nebular HeII emission in extra-galactic HII regions. (Abridged abstract)