Chemistry is about chemical reactions. Chemistry is about electrons changing
their configurations as atoms and molecules react. Chemistry studies reactions
as if they occurred in ideal infinitely dilute solutions. But most reactions
occur in nonideal solutions. Then everything (charged) interacts with
everything else (charged) through the electric field, which is short and long
range extending to boundaries of the system. Mathematics has recently been
developed to deal with interacting systems of this sort. The variational theory
of complex fluids has spawned the theory of liquid crystals. In my view, ionic
solutions should be viewed as complex fluids. In both biology and
electrochemistry ionic solutions are mixtures highly concentrated (~10M) where
they are most important, near electrodes, nucleic acids, enzymes, and ion
channels. Calcium is always involved in biological solutions because its
concentration in a particular location is the signal that controls many
biological functions. Such interacting systems are not simple fluids, and it is
no wonder that analysis of interactions, such as the Hofmeister series, rooted
in that tradition, has not succeeded as one would hope. We present a
variational treatment of hard spheres in a frictional dielectric. The theory
automatically extends to spatially nonuniform boundary conditions and the
nonequilibrium systems and flows they produce. The theory is unavoidably
self-consistent since differential equations are derived (not assumed) from
models of (Helmholtz free) energy and dissipation of the electrolyte. The
origin of the Hofmeister series is (in my view) an inverse problem that becomes
well posed when enough data from disjoint experimental traditions are
interpreted with a self-consistent theory.