In this paper we address the complexity issues of two agreement problems in
oblivious robot networks namely gathering and scattering. These abstractions
are fundamental coordination problems in cooperative mobile robotics. Moreover,
their oblivious characteristics makes them appealing for self-stabilization
since they are self-stabilizing with no extra-cost. Given a set of robots with
arbitrary initial location and no initial agreement on a global coordinate
system, gathering requires that all robots reach the exact same but not
predetermined location while scattering aims at scatter robots such that no two
robots share the same location. Both deterministic gathering and scattering
have been proved impossible under arbitrary schedulers therefore probabilistic
solutions have been recently proposed. The contribution of this paper is
twofold. First, we propose a detailed complexity analysis of the existent
probabilistic gathering algorithms in both fault-free and fault-prone
environments. We consider both crash and byzantine-prone environments.
Moreover, using Markov chains tools and additional assumptions on the
environment we prove that the gathering convergence time can be reduced from
O(n^2) (the best known tight bound) to O(nln(n)). Additionally, we prove that
in crash-prone environments gathering is achieved in O(nln(n)+2f). Second,
using the same technique we prove that the best known scattering strategy
converges in fault-free systems is O(n) (which is one to optimal) while in
crash-prone environments it needs O(n-f). Finally, we conclude the paper with a
discussion related to different strategies to gather oblivious robots.