Context-aware applications have been gaining huge interest in the last few
years. With cell phones becoming ubiquitous computing devices, cell phone
localization has become an important research problem. In this paper, we
present CellSense, a prob- abilistic RSSI-based fingerprinting location
determi- nation system for GSM phones. We discuss the chal- lenges of
implementing a probabilistic fingerprinting localization technique in GSM
networks and present the details of the CellSense systemand how it addresses
these challenges. We then extend the proposed system using a hybrid technique
that combines probabilistic and deterministic estimation to achieve both high
ac- curacy and low computational overhead.Moreover, the accuracy of the hybrid
technique is robust to changes in its parameter values. To evaluate our
proposed system, we implemented CellSense on Android-based phones. Results from
two different testbeds, represent- ing urban and rural environments, for three
differ- ent cellular providers show that CellSense provides at least 108.57%
enhancement in accuracy in rural areas and at least 89.03% in urban areas
compared to the current state of the art RSSI-based GSM localization systems.
In additional, the proposed hybrid technique provides more than 6 times and 5.4
times reduction in computational requirements compared to the state of the art
RSSI-based GSM localization systems for the rural and urban testbeds
respectively.We also evaluate the effect of changing the different system
parameters on the accuracy-complexity tradeoff and how the cell towers density
and fingerprint density affect the system performance.