We report, for the first time, a multi-confocal Fluorescence Correlation
Spectroscopy (mFCS) technique which allows parallel measurements at different
locations, by combining a Spatial Light Modulator (SLM), with an Electron
Multiplying-CCD camera (EM-CCD). The SLM is used to produce a series of laser
spots, while the pixels of the EM-CCD play the roles of virtual pinholes. The
phase map addressed to the SLM is calculated by using the spherical wave
approximation and makes it possible to produce several diffraction limited
laser spots, either aligned or spread over the field of view. To attain fast
enough imaging rates, the camera has been used in different acquisition modes,
the fastest of which leads to a time resolution of 100 $\mu$s. We qualified the
experimental set-up by using solutions of sulforhodamine G in glycerol and
demonstrated that the observation volumes are similar to that of a standard
confocal set-up. To demonstrate that our mFCS method is suitable for
intracellular studies, experiments have been conducted on two stable cell
lines: mouse embryonic fibroblasts expressing eGFP-actin and H1299 cells
expressing the heat shock factor fusion protein HSF1-eGFP. In the first case we
could recover, by analyzing the auto-correlation curves, the diffusion constant
of G-actin within the cytoplasm, although we were also sensitive to the complex
network of interactions with F-actin. Concerning HSF1, we could clearly observe
the modifications of the number of molecules and of the HSF1 dynamics during
heat shock.