The Magellanic Cloud System (MCS) interacts via tidal and drag forces with
the Milky Way galaxy. Using the Parkes Galactic All-Sky Survey (GASS) of atomic
hydrogen we explore the role of drag on the evolution of the so-called Leading
Arm (LA). We present a new image recognition algorithm that allows us to
differentiate features within a 3-D data cube (longitude, latitude, radial
velocity) and to parameterize individual coherent structures. We compiled an HI
object catalog of LA objects within an area of 70 degr x 85 degr (1.6 sr) of
the LA region. This catalog comprises information of location, column density,
line width, shape and asymmetries of the individual LA objects above the
4-sigma threshold of Delta T_b simeq 200 mK. We present evidence of a fourth
arm segment (LA4). For all LA objects we find an inverse correlation of
velocities v_GSR in Galactic Standard of Rest frame with Magellanic longitude.
High-mass objects tend to have higher radial velocities than low-mass ones.
About 1/4 of all LA objects can be characterized as head-tail (HT) structures.
Using image recognition with objective criteria, it is feasible to isolate most
of LA emission from the diffuse Milky Way HI gas. Some blended gas components
(we estimate 5%) escape detection, but we find a total gas content of the LA
that is about 50% higher than previously assumed. These methods allow the
deceleration of the LA clouds to be traced towards the Milky Way disk by drag
forces. The derived velocity gradient strongly supports the assumption that the
whole LA originates entirely in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). LA4 is
observed opposite to LA1, and we propose that both arms are related, spanning
about 52kpc in space. HT structures trace drag forces even at tens of kpc
altitudes above the Milky Way disk.