This paper investigates the role of homophily and focus constraint in shaping
collaborative scientific research. First, homophily structures collaboration
when scientists adhere to a norm of exclusivity in selecting similar partners
at a higher rate than dissimilar ones. Two dimensions on which similarity
between scientists can be assessed are their research specialties and status
positions. Second, focus constraint shapes collaboration when connections among
scientists depend on opportunities for social contact. Constraint comes in two
forms, depending on whether it originates in institutional or geographic space.
Institutional constraint refers to the tendency of scientists to select
collaborators within rather than across institutional boundaries. Geographic
constraint is the principle that, when collaborations span different
institutions, they are more likely to involve scientists that are
geographically co-located than dispersed. To study homophily and focus
constraint, the paper will argue in favour of an idea of collaboration that
moves beyond formal co-contributorship to include also other forms of informal
intellectual exchange that do not translate into the publication of joint work.
A community-detection algorithm is applied to the co-contributorship network of the
scientists that submitted in Business and Management in the 2001 UK RAE. While
results only partially support research-based homophily, they indicate that
scientists use status positions for discriminating between potential partners
by selecting collaborators from institutions with a rating similar to their
own. Strong support is provided in favour of institutional and geographic
constraints. Scientists tend to forge intra-institutional collaborations; yet,
when they seek collaborators outside their own institutions, they tend to
select those who are in geographic proximity.