A detailed parameter study of the gamma-gamma absorption effects in LS 5039
is presented. For a range of plausible locations of the VHE gamma-ray emission
region and the allowable range of viewing angles, the de-absorbed, intrinsic
VHE gamma-ray spectra and total VHE photon fluxes and luminosities are
calculated and compared to luminosity constraints based on wind accretion onto
the compact object in LS 5039. It is found that (1) it is impossible to choose
the viewing angle and location of the VHE emission region in a way that the
intrinsic (deabsorbed) fluxes and spectra in superior and inferior conjunction
are identical; consequently, the intrinsic VHE luminosities and spectral shapes
must be fundamentally different in different orbital phases, (2) if the VHE
luminosity is limited by wind accretion from the companion star and the system
is viewed at an inclination angle of i > 40 deg., the emission is most likely
beamed by a larger Doppler factor than inferred from the dynamics of the
large-scale radio outflows, (3) the still poorly constrained viewing angle
between the line of sight and the jet axis is most likely substantially smaller
than the maximum of ~ 64 deg. inferred from the lack of eclipses.(4)
Consequently, the compact object is more likely to be a black hole rather than
a neutron star. (5) There is a limited range of allowed configurations for
which the expected > 1 TeV neutrino flux would actually anti-correlate with the
observed VHE gamma-ray emission. If hadronic models for the gamma-ray
production in LS 5039 apply, a solid detection of the expected VHE neutrino
flux and its orbital modulation with km^3 scale water-Cherenkov neutrino
detectors might require the accumulation of data over more than 3 years.