A number of binary systems present evidence of enhanced activity around
periastron passage, suggesting a connection between tidal interactions and
these periastron effects. The aim of this investigation is to study the
time-dependent response of a star's surface as it is perturbed by a binary
companion. We derive expressions for the rate of dissipation, $\dot{E}$, of the
kinetic energy by the viscous flows driven by tidal interactions on the surface
layer. The method is tested by comparing the results from a grid of model
calculations with the analytical predictions of Hut (1981) and the
synchronization timescales of Zahn (1977, 2008). Our results for the orbital
cycle averaged energy dissipation on orbital separation are consistent with
those of Hut for model binaries with orbital separations at periastron >8
stellar radii. The model also reproduces the predicted pseudo-synchronization
angular velocity for moderate eccentricities and the same scaling of
synchronization timescales for circular orbits with separation as given by
Zahn. The computations gives the distribution of $\dot{E}$ over the stellar
surface, and show that it is generally concentrated at the equatorial latitude,
with maxima generally located around four clearly defined longitudes,
corresponding to the fastest azimuthal velocity perturbations. Maximum
amplitudes occur around periastron passage or slightly thereafter for
supersynchronously rotating stars. In very eccentric binaries, the distribution
of $\dot{E}$ over the surface changes significantly as a function of orbital
phase, with small spatial structures appearing after periastron. An exploratory
calculation for the highly eccentric binary system delta Sco suggests that the
sudden and large amplitude variations in surface properties around periastron
may contribute toward the activity observed around this orbital phase.