We discuss the X-ray properties of the interacting system Arp 284, consisting
of the active nuclear starburst galaxy NGC 7714 and its post-starburst
companion NGC 7715. A morphological signature of the interaction, thought to
have started <100 Myr ago, is an asymmetric stellar ring dominating the
intensity profile of NGC 7714 in the inner disk (~ 2 exponential scale
lengths). In agreement to previous Einstein-data our ROSAT PSPC exposure shows
the X-ray emission of Arp 284 to be confined to NGC 7714. The bulk of the
intrinsic X-ray luminosity in the ROSAT 0.1--2.4 keV band can be accounted for
by thermal emission from hot (~5x10**6 K) gas and amounts to ~2-4 x 10**41
erg/sec. Follow-up observations with the ROSAT HRI revealed two distinct
extended emitting regions contributing to the X-ray luminosity in NGC 7714. The
more luminous of them (L_X < 2 x 10*41 erg/sec) coincides with the central
starburst nucleus and can be explained this way. The fainter one (L_X~ 8x10**40
erg/sec) is located ~20 arcsec off-center and does not have any conspicuous
optical counterpart. It is, likely, located at the borderline between the
stellar ring and a massive (>10**9 M(solar)) HI-bridge further to the east
possibly intersecting NGC 7714. The HI and X-ray morphology and the extensive
starburst nature of the nuclear energy source suggest different scenarios for
the formation of the eastern emission spot. The possibilities of (i)
collisional heating of the outlying gas by a starburst-driven nuclear wind and
(ii) infall of HI-clouds from the bridge onto the disk of NGC 7714 are
discussed.