We provide a taxonomic and compositional characterization of Multiple
Asteroid Systems (MASs) located in the main belt (MB) using visible and
near-infrared (0.45-2.5 um) spectral data of 42 MB MASs. The mineralogical
analysis is applied to determine meteorite analogs for the MASs, which, in
turn, are applied to the MAS density measurements of Marchis et al. (2012) to
estimate the system porosity. The macroporosities are used to evaluate the
primary MAS formation hypotheses. The visible observing campaign includes 25
MASs obtained using the SOAR telescope with the Goodman High Throughput
Spectrometer. The infrared observing campaign includes 34 MASs obtained using
the NASA IRTF with the SpeX spectragraph. The MASs are classified using the
Bus-DeMeo taxonomic system. We perform a NIR spectral band parameter analysis
using a new analysis routine, the Spectral Analysis Routine for Asteroids
(SARA). The SARA routine determines band centers, areas, and depths by
utilizing the diagnostic absorption features near 1- and 2-um. The band
parameter analysis provides the Gaffey subtype for the S-type MASs; the
relative abundance olivine-to-pyroxene ratio; and olivine and pyroxene modal
abundances for S-complex and V-type MASs. This mineralogical information is
applied to determine meteorite analogs. We determine the H, L, and LL meteorite
analogs for 15 MASs with ordinary chondrite-like (OC) mineralogies. We observe
an excess (10/15) of LL-like mineralogies. Of the MASs with LL-like
mineralogies, seven are consistent with Flora family membership, supporting the
hypothesis that the Flora family is a source of LL-like NEAs and LL chondrites
on Earth. Using the measured densities of the meteorite analog and the MAS
densities from Marchis et al. (2012), we estimate the macroporosity for 13 MASs
and find that all estimated macroporosities are in agreement with formation
hypotheses.