We report on synoptic observations at 3.6 and 4.5micron of young stellar
objects in IC 348 with 38 epochs covering 40 days. We find that among the
detected cluster members, 338 at [3.6] and 269 at both [3.6] and [4.5], many
are variable on daily to weekly timescales with typical fluctuations of ~0.1
mag. The fraction of variables ranges from 20% for the diskless pre-main
sequence stars to 60% for the stars still surrounded by infalling envelopes. We
also find that stars in the exposed cluster core are less variable than the
stars in the dense, slightly younger, south-western ridge. This trend persists
even after accounting for the underlying correlation with infrared SED type,
suggesting that the change in variable fraction is not simply a reflection of
the change in relative fraction of class I vs. class II sources across the
cloud, but instead reflects a change in variability with age. We also see a
strong correlation between infrared variability and X-ray luminosity among the
class II sources. The observed variability most likely reflects large changes
in the structure of the inner wall located at the dust sublimation radius. We
explore the possibility that these structural perturbations could be caused by
a hot spot on the star heating dust above the sublimation temperature, causing
it to evaporate rapidly, and increasing the inner radius for a portion of the
disk. Under a number of simplifying assumptions we show that this model can
reproduce the size and timescale of the 3.6 and 4.5micron fluctuations.
Regardless of its source, the infrared variability indicates that the inner
disk is not a slowly evolving entity, but instead is a bubbling, warped, dented
mass of gas and dust whose global size and shape fluctuate in a matter of days.