The UNBSSI is a long-term effort for the development of astronomy and space
science through regional and international cooperation in this field on a
worldwide basis. A series of workshops on BSS was held from 1991 to 2004 (India
1991, Costa Rica and Colombia 1992, Nigeria 1993, Egypt 1994, Sri Lanka 1995,
Germany 1996, Honduras 1997, Jordan 1999, France 2000, Mauritius 2001,
Argentina 2002, and China 2004; http://www.seas.columbia.edu/~ah297/un-esa/)
and addressed the status of astronomy in Asia and the Pacific, Latin America
and the Caribbean, Africa, and Western Asia. One major recommendation that
emanated from these workshops was the establishment of astronomical facilities
in developing nations for research and education programmes at the university
level. Such workshops on BSS emphasized the particular importance of
astrophysical data systems and the virtual observatory concept for the
development of astronomy on a worldwide basis. Pursuant to resolutions of the
United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNCOPUOS) and its
Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, since 2005, these workshops focused on
the International Heliophysical Year 2007 (UAE 2005, India 2006, Japan 2007,
Bulgaria 2008, Ro Korea 2009;
http://www.unoosa.org/oosa/SAP/bss/ihy2007/index.html). Starting in 2010, the
workshops focus on the International Space Weather Initiative (ISWI) as
recommended in a three-year-work plan as part of the deliberations of UNCOPUOS
(http://www.stil.bas.bg/ISWI/). Workshops on the ISWI have been scheduled to be
hosted by Egypt in 2010 for Western Asia, Nigeria in 2011 for Africa, and
Ecuador in 2012 for Latin America and the Caribbean. Currently, 14 IHY/ISWI
instrument arrays with > 600 instruments are operational in 95 countries.