The recently introduced discrete persistent structure extractor (DisPerSE,
Soubie 2010, paper I) is implemented on realistic 3D cosmological simulations
and observed redshift catalogues (SDSS); it is found that DisPerSE traces
equally well the observed filaments, walls, and voids in both cases. In either
setting, filaments are shown to connect onto halos, outskirt walls, which
circumvent voids. Indeed this algorithm operates directly on the particles
without assuming anything about the distribution, and yields a natural
(topologically motivated) self-consistent criterion for selecting the
significance level of the identified structures. It is shown that this
extraction is possible even for very sparsely sampled point processes, as a
function of the persistence ratio. Hence astrophysicists should be in a
position to trace and measure precisely the filaments, walls and voids from
such samples and assess the confidence of the post-processed sets as a function
of this threshold, which can be expressed relative to the expected amplitude of
shot noise. In a cosmic framework, this criterion is comparable to friend of
friend for the identifications of peaks, while it also identifies the connected
filaments and walls, and quantitatively recovers the full set of topological
invariants (Betti numbers) {\sl directly from the particles} as a function of
the persistence threshold. This criterion is found to be sufficient even if one
particle out of two is noise, when the persistence ratio is set to 3-sigma or
more. The algorithm is also implemented on the SDSS catalogue and used to locat
interesting configurations of the filamentary structure. In this context we
carried the identification of an ``optically faint'' cluster at the
intersection of filaments through the recent observation of its X-ray
counterpart by SUZAKU. The corresponding filament catalogue will be made
available online.