This report considers the class of applications of sensor networks in which
each sensor node makes measurements, such as temperature or humidity, at the
precise location of the node. Such spot-sensing applications approximate the
physical condition of the entire region of interest by the measurements made at
only the points where the sensor nodes are located. Given a certain density of
nodes in a region, a more spatially uniform distribution of the nodes leads to
a better approximation of the physical condition of the region. This report
considers the error in this approximation and seeks to improve the quality of
representation of the physical condition of the points in the region in the
data collected by the sensor network. We develop two essential metrics which
together allow a rigorous quantitative assessment of the quality of
representation achieved: the average representation error and the unevenness of
representation error, the latter based on a well-accepted measure of inequality
used in economics. We present the rationale behind the use of these metrics and
derive relevant theoretical bounds on them in the common scenario of a planar
region of arbitrary shape covered by a sensor network deployment. A simple new
heuristic algorithm is presented for each node to determine if and when it
should sense or sleep to conserve energy while also preserving the quality of
representation. Simulation results show that it achieves a significant
improvement in the quality of representation compared to other related
distributed algorithms. Interestingly, our results also show that improved
spatial uniformity has the welcome side-effect of a significant increase in the
network lifetime.