Context: Solar flare hard X-rays (HXRs) are thought to be produced by
nonthermal coronal electrons stopping in the chromosphere, or remaining trapped
in the corona. The collisional thick target model (CTTM) predicts that sources
produced by harder power-law injection spectra should appear further down the
legs or footpoints of a flare loop. Therefore, hardening of the injected
power-law electron spectrum during flare onset should be concurrent with a
descending hard X-ray source.
  Aims: To test this implication of the CTTM by comparing its predicted HXR
source locations with those derived from observations of a solar flare which
exhibits a nonthermally-dominated spectrum before the peak in HXRs, known as an
early impulsive event.
  Methods: HXR images and spectra of an early impulsive C-class flare were
obtained using the Ramaty High-Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (RHESSI).
Images were reconstructed to produce HXR source height evolutions for three
energy bands. Spatially-integrated spectral analysis was performed to isolate
nonthermal emission, and to determine the power-law index of the electron
injection spectrum. The observed height-time evolutions were then fit with
CTTM-based simulated heights for each energy.
  Results: A good match between model and observed source heights was reached,
requiring a density model that agreed well with previous studies of flare loop
densities.
  Conclusions: The CTTM has been used to produce a descent of model HXR source
heights that compares well with observations of this event. Based on this
interpretation, downward motion of nonthermal sources should indeed occur in
any flare where there is spectral hardening in the electron distribution during
a flare. However, this would often be masked by thermal emission associated
with flare plasma pre-heating.