Thermal conductivity is an important property for almost all applications
involving heat transfer, ranging from energy and microelectronics to food
processing and textiles. The theory and modeling of crystalline materials is in
some sense a solved problem, where one can now calculate the thermal
conductivity of any crystalline line compound from first principles [1,2] using
expressions based on the phonon gas model (PGM)[3,4]. However, modeling of
amorphous materials still has many open questions, because the PGM itself
becomes questionable when one cannot rigorously define the phonon velocities.
New theories and methods are therefore needed to understand phonon transport in
amorphous materials. In this letter, we used our recently developed Green-Kubo
modal analysis (GKMA) method to study amorphous silica (a-SiO2). The predicted
thermal conductivities exhibit excellent agreement with experiments at all
temperatures and anharmonic effects are included in the thermal conductivity
calculation for all types of modes in a-SiO2 for the first time. Previously,
localized modes (locons) have been thought to have a negligible contribution to
thermal conductivity, due to their highly localized nature, which conceptually
should prevent them from moving energy to another location. However, in a-SiO2
our results indicate that locons contribute more than 10% to the total thermal
conductivity from 400K to 800K and they are largely responsible for the
increase in thermal conductivity of a-SiO2 above room temperature. This is an
effect that cannot be explained by previous methods and therefore offers new
insight into the nature of phonon transport in amorphous/glassy materials.