We present new groundbased 3 $\mu$m spectra of 14 young stellar objects with
H_2O ice absorption bands. The broad absorption feature at 3.47 $\mu$m was
detected toward all objects and its optical depth is correlated with the
optical depth of H_2O ice, strengthening an earlier finding. The broad
absorption feature at 3.25 $\mu$m was detected toward two more sources and an
upper limit is given for a third source. The optical depths of the 3.25 $\mu$m
feature obtained to date are better correlated with the optical depth of the
refractory silicate dust than with that of H_2O ice. If this trend is
confirmed, this would support our proposed identification of the feature as the
C--H stretch of aromatic hydrocarbons at low temperature. An absorption feature
at 3.53 $\mu$m due to solid methanol was detected for the first time toward
MonR2/IRS2, as well as toward W33A and GL 2136. The wavelengths of the CH_3OH
features toward W33A, GL 2136, and NGC7538/IRS9 can be fit by CH_3OH-rich ices,
while the wavelength of the feature toward MonR2/IRS2 suggests an H_2O-rich ice
environment. Solid methanol abundances toward GL 2136, NGC7538/IRS9, and
MonR2/IRS2 are 3-5 % relative to H_2O ice. There is an additional narrow
absorption feature near 3.47 $\mu$m toward W33A. For the object W51/IRS2,
spatially resolved spectra from 2 to 4 $\mu$m indicate that the H_2O ice is
located predominantly in front of the eastern component and that the H_2O ice
extinction is much deeper than previously estimated. For the object RNO 91,
spectra from 2 to 4 $\mu$m reveal stellar (or circumstellar) CO gas absorption
and deeper H_2O ice extinction than previously estimated.