This paper investigates the conditions for producing rapid variations of
solar ener- getic particle (SEP) intensity commonly known as dropouts. In
particular, we use numerical model simulations based on solving the focused
transport equation in the 3-dimensional Parker interplanetary magnetic field to
put constraints on the proper- ties of particle transport coefficients both in
the direction perpendicular and parallel to the magnetic field. To simulate the
effect of field lines that may alternatively connect and disconnect an observer
from a compact SEP source on the solar surface, we place several smaller SEP
sources that release particles impulsively and simultaneously at separate
longitudes on the solar surface. We let magnetic flux tubes filled or devoid of
energetic particles pass the observer. The perpendicular particle diffusion
tends to smooth out the intensity variation. Our calculations of the temporal
intensity profile of 0.5 and 5 MeV protons at the Earth show that the
perpendicular diffusion must be small enough while the parallel mean free path
should be long in order to reproduce the phenomenon of SEP dropouts. When the
parallel mean free path is a fraction of 1 AU and the observer is located at 1
AU, the perpendicular to parallel diffusion ratio must be below $10^{-5}$ if we
want to see the particle flux dropping by at least several times within three
hours. When the observer is located at a larger solar radial distance, the
perpendicular to parallel diffusion ratio for reproducing the dropouts should
be even lower than that in the case of 1 AU distance. A shorter parallel mean
free path or a larger radial distance from the source to observer will cause
the particles to arrive later, making the effect of perpendicular diffusion
more prominent and SEP dropouts disappear.