There are 512 two-locus, two-allele, two-phenotype, fully-penetrant disease
models. Using the permutation between two alleles, between two loci, and
between being affected and unaffected, one model can be considered to be
equivalent to another model under the corresponding permutation. These
permutations greatly reduce the number of two-locus models in the analysis of
complex diseases. This paper determines the number of non-redundant two-locus
models (which can be 102, 100, 96, 51, 50, or 48, depending on which
permutations are used, and depending on whether zero-locus and single-locus
models are excluded). Whenever possible, these non-redundant two-locus models
are classified by their property. Besides the familiar features of
multiplicative models (logical AND), heterogeneity models (logical OR), and
threshold models, new classifications are added or expanded: modifying-effect
models, logical XOR models, interference and negative interference models
(neither dominant nor recessive), conditionally dominant/recessive models,
missing lethal genotype models, and highly symmetric models. The following
aspects of two-locus models are studied: the marginal penetrance tables at both
loci, the expected joint identity-by-descent probabilities, and the correlation
between marginal identity-by-descent probabilities at the two loci. These
studies are useful for linkage analyses using single-locus models while the
underlying disease model is two-locus, and for correlation analyses using the
linkage signals at different locations obtained by a single-locus model.