(Shortened) We have used the measured properties of the stars in the 79
exoplanetary systems with one or more planets that have been observed in
transit, to estimate each system's present habitability. The measured stellar
properties have been used to determine the present location of the classical
habitable zone (HZ). To establish habitability we use the estimated distances
from the giant planet(s) within which an Earth-like planet would be inside the
gravitational reach of the giant. Of the 79 transiting systems known in April
2010, only 2 do not offer safe havens to Earth-like planets in the HZ, and thus
could not support life today. We have also estimated whether habitability is
possible for 1.7 Gyr into the past i.e. 0.7 Gyr for a heavy bombardment, plus
1.0 Gyr for life to emerge and thus be present today. We find that, for the
best estimate of each stellar age, an additional 28 systems do not offer such
sustained habitability. If we reduce 1.7 Gyr to 1.0 Gyr this number falls to
22. However, if giant planets orbiting closer to the star than the inner
boundary of the HZ, have got there by migration through the HZ, and if this
ruled out the subsequent formation of Earth-like planets, then, of course, none
of the presently known transiting exoplanetary systems offers habitability.
Fortunately, this bleak conclusion could well be wrong. As well as obtaining
results on the 79 transiting systems, this paper demonstrates a method for
determining the habitability of the cornucopia of such systems that will surely
be discovered over the next few years.