NGC 7129 FIRS 2 (hereafter FIRS 2) is an intermediate-mass (2 to 8 Msun)
protostar located at a distance of 1250 pc. High spatial resolution
observations are required to resolve the hot core at its center. We present a
molecular survey from 218200 MHz to 221800 MHz carried out with the IRAM
Plateau de Bure Interferometer. These observations were complemented with a
long integration single-dish spectrum taken with the IRAM 30m telescope. We
used a Local Thermodynamic Equilibrium (LTE) single temperature code to model
the whole dataset. The interferometric spectrum is crowded with a total of ~300
lines from which a few dozens remain unidentified yet. The spectrum has been
modeled with a total of 20 species and their isomers, isotopologues and
deuterated compounds. Complex molecules like methyl formate (CH3OCHO), ethanol
(CH3CH2OH), glycolaldehyde (CH2OHCHO), acetone (CH3COCH3), dimethyl ether
(CH3OCH3), ethyl cyanide (CH3CH2CN) and the aGg' conformer of ethylene glycol
(aGg'-(CH2OH)_2) are among the detected species. The detection of vibrationally
excited lines of CH3CN, CH3OCHO, CH3OH, OCS, HC3N and CH3CHO proves the
existence of gas and dust at high temperatures. In fact, the gas kinetic
temperature estimated from the vibrational lines of CH3CN, ~405 K, is similar
to that measured in massive hot cores. Our data allow an extensive comparison
of the chemistry in FIRS~2 and the Orion hot core. We find a quite similar
chemistry in FIRS 2 and Orion. Most of the studied fractional molecular
abundances agree within a factor of 5. Larger differences are only found for
the deuterated compounds D2CO and CH2DOH and a few molecules (CH3CH2CN, SO2,
HNCO and CH3CHO). Since the physical conditions are similar in both hot cores,
only different initial conditions (warmer pre-collapse phase in the case of
Orion) and/or different crossing time of the gas in the hot core can explain
this behavior.