This work updates and expands on results of our long-term radar-driven
observational campaign of main-belt asteroids (MBAs) focused on Bus-DeMeo Xc-
and Xk-type objects (Tholen X and M class asteroids) using the Arecibo radar
and NASA Infrared Telescope Facilities (Ockert-Bell et al. 2008; 2010; Shepard
et al. 2008; 2010). Eighteen of our targets were near-simultaneously observed
with radar and those observations are described in Shepard et al. (2010). We
combine our near-infrared data with available visible wavelength data for a
more complete compositional analysis of our targets. Compositional evidence is
derived from our target asteroid spectra using two different methods, a \c{hi}2
search for spectral matches in the RELAB database and parametric comparisons
with meteorites. We present four new methods of parametric comparison,
including discriminant analysis. Discriminant analysis identifies meteorite
type with 85% accuracy. This paper synthesizes the results of these two analog
search algorithms and reconciles those results with analogs suggested from
radar data (Shepard et al. 2010). We have observed 29 asteroids, 18 in
conjunction with radar observations. For eighteen out of twenty-nine objects
observed (62%) our compositional predictions are consistent over two or more
methods applied. We find that for our Xc and Xk targets the best fit is an iron
meteorite for 34% of the samples. Enstatite Chondrites were best fits for 6 of
our targets (21%). Stony-iron meteorites were best fits for 2 of our targets
(7%). A discriminant analysis suggests that asteroids with no absorption band
can be compared to iron meteorites and asteroids with both a 0.9 and 1.9 {\mu}m
absorption band can be compared to stony-iron meteorites.