We present the tidal tail distributions of a sample of candidate binary
clusters located in the bar of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC). One isolated
cluster, SL 268, is presented in order to study the effect of the LMC tidal
field. All the candidate binary clusters show tidal tails, confirming that the
pairs are formed by physically linked objects. The stellar mass in the tails
covers a large range, from $1.8\times 10^3$ to $3\times 10^4$\msun. We derive a
total mass estimate for SL 268 and SL 356. At large radii, the projected
density profiles of SL 268 and SL 356 fall off as $r^{-\gamma}$, with $\gamma=
2.27$ and $\gamma=3.44$, respectively. Out of 4 pairs or multiple systems, 2
are older than the theoretical survival time of binary clusters (going from a
few $10^6$ yr to $10^8$ yr). A pair shows too large age difference between the
components to be consistent with classical theoretical models of binary cluster
formation (Fujimoto & Kumai 1997). We refer to this as the ``overmerging''
problem.A different scenario is proposed: the formation proceeds in large
molecular complexes giving birth to groups of clusters over a few $10^7$ yr. In
these groups the expected cluster encounter rate is larger, and tidal capture
has higher probability. Cluster pairs are not born together through the
splitting of the parent cloud, but formed later by tidal capture. For 3 pairs,
we tentatively identify the star cluster group (SCG) memberships. The SCG
formation, through the recent cluster starburst triggered by the LMC-SMC
encounter, in contrast with the quiescent open cluster formation in the Milky
Way can be an explanation to the paucity of binary clusters observed in our
Galaxy.