Although dust emission at cosmological distances has only been detected a
little more than a decade ago, remarkable progress has been achieved since then
in characterizing the far-infrared emission of high-redshift systems. The mere
fact that dust can be detected in galaxies at high redshift is remarkable for
two reasons: (a) even at very early cosmic epochs (all the way to the first Gyr
of the universe), dust production was apparently very effective, (b) due to the
inverse K-correction (`the magic of (sub-)millimeter') is it actually possible
to detect this dust emission using current facilities. Deep blind surveys using
bolometer cameras on single dish telescopes have uncovered a population of
massively starforming systems at z~2, the so-called submillimeter galaxies
(SMGs). Follow-up radio and millimeter interferometric observations helped to
characterize their main physical properties (such as far-infrared luminosities
and implied star formation rates). Average FIR properties of fainter
optically/NIR-selected classes of galaxies have been constrained using stacking
techniques. Targeted observations of the rare quasars have provided evidence
for major star formation activity in quasar host galaxies throughout cosmic
times. Molecular gas and PAH features have been detected in both SMGs and
quasars, providing additional evidence for major star formation episodes (SFR
500-3000 M_sun/yr) in the brightest systems. Even though remarkable progress
has been achieved in recent years, current facilities fail to uncover the
counterparts of even major local starbursts (such as Arp220) at any significant
redshift (z>0.5). Only ALMA will be able to go beyond the tip of the iceberg to
study the dust and FIR properties of typical star forming systems, all the way
out to the epoch of cosmic reionization (z>>6).