C18O spectral line observations, NIR spectrosopy, narrow and broad band NIR
imaging and stellar J,H,Ks photometry are used to analyse the structure of the
archetype cometary globule 1 (CG 1) head and the extinction of stars in its
direction. A young stellar object (YSO) associated with a bright NIR nebulosity
and a molecular hydrogen object (a probable obscured HH-object), were
discovered in the globule. Molecular hydrogen and Br_gamma line emission is
seen in the direction of the YSO. The observed maximum optical extinction in
the globule head is 9.2 magnitudes. The peak N(H2) column density and the total
mass derived from the extinction are 9.0 10^21 cm-2 and and 16.7 Msun
(d/300pc)^2. C18O emission in the globule head is detected in a 1.5'' by 4'
area with a sharp maximum SW of the YSO. Three regions can be discerned in C18O
line velocity and excitation temperature. Because of variations in the C18O
excitation temperature the integrated line emission does not follow the optical
extinction. It is argued that the variations in the C18O excitation
temperatures are caused by radiative heating by NX Pup and interaction of the
YSO with the parent cloud. No indication of a strong molecular outflow from the
YSO is evident in the molecular line data. The IRAS point source 07178-4429
located in the CG 1 head resolves into two sources in the HIRES enhanced IRAS
images. The 12 and 25 micron emission originates mainly in the star NX Puppis
and the 60 and 100 micron emission in the YSO. The IRAS FIR luminosity of the
YSO is 3.1 Lsun.