In this paper we present a new deep, wide-field near-infrared imaging survey.
Our J- and K-band observations in four separate fields complement optical BVRI,
ultraviolet and spectroscopic observations undertaken as part of the VIMOS-VLT
deep survey (VVDS). In total, our survey spans ~400arcmis^2. Our catalogues are
reliable in all fields to at least Kvega~20.75 and Jvega~21.50 (defined as the
magnitude where object contamination is less than 10% and completeness greater
than 90%). Taken together these four fields represents a unique combination of
depth, wavelength coverage and area. We describe the complete data reduction
process and outline a comprehensive series of tests carried out to characterise
the reliability of the final catalogues. We compare the statistical properties
of our catalogues with literature compilations. We find that our J- and
K-selected galaxy counts are in good agreement with previously published works,
as are our (J-K) versus K colour-magnitude diagrams. Stellar number counts
extracted from our fields are consistent with a synthetic model of our galaxy.
Using the location of the stellar locus in colour-magnitude space and the
measured field-to-field variation in galaxy number counts we demonstrate that
the absolute accuracy of our photometric calibration is at the 5% level or
better. Finally, an investigation of the angular clustering of K- selected
extended sources in our survey displays the expected scaling behaviour with
limiting magnitude, with amplitudes in each magnitude bin in broad agreement
with literature values.