The present gravitational wave detectors are reaching lowest metric deviation
fields able to detect galactic and extra-galactic gravitational waves, related
to Supernova explosions up to Virgo cluster. The same gravitational wave
detector are nevertheless almost able to reveal, in principle, near field
Newtonian gravitational perturbations due to fast huge mass displacements as
the ones occurring during largest Earth-Quake or Tsunami as the last on 26nd
December 2004 in Asiatic area. Virgo and Ligo detector are unfortunately
recording on high frequencies (above tens Hz) while the signal of the Tsunami
lay at much lower range (below 0.1 Hz). Nevertheless prompt gravitational near
field deformation by the Tsunami might reach the future LISA threshold
sensitivity and frequency windows if such an array is located nearby
(3000-10000) km distances. Unfortunately the present LISA system should be
located at Lagrange point too far (1.5 million km. far away). We note however
that the later continental mass rearrangement and their gravitational field
assessment on Earth must induce, for Richter Magnitude 9-like Tsunami, a
different terrestrial inertia momentum and a different principal rotation axis.
In conclusion we remind that gravitational geodetic deviation on new precise
satellites (GOCE 2006), assisted by GPS network, might nevertheless reach in
the near future the needed threshold and accuracy to reveal Tsunami by their
prompt tidal gravity field deviations . An array of such geoid detector maybe
correlated with LISA-like satellite on Earth orbits may offer the fastest alarm
system.