We have developed lists of likely B3--A0 stars (called "late B" stars) in the
young cluster Trumpler 16. The following criteria were used: location within 3'
of Eta Car, an appropriate V and B-V combination, and proper motion (where
available). Color and magnitude cuts have been made assuming an E(B-V) =0.55
mag +/- 0.1, which is a good approximation close to the center of Trumpler 16.
These lists have been cross-correlated with X-ray sources found in the Chandra
Carina Complex Project (CCCP). Previous studies have shown that only very
rarely (if at all) do late main sequence B stars produce X-rays. We present
evidence that the X-ray detected sources are binaries with low-mass companions,
since stars less massive than 1.4 Msun are strong X-ray sources at the age of
the cluster. Both the median X-ray energies and X-ray luminosities of these
sources are in good agreement with values for typical low-mass coronal X-ray
sources. We find that 39% of the late B stars based on a list with proper
motions have low-mass companions. Similarly, 32% of a sample without proper
motions have low-mass companions. We discuss the X-ray detection completeness.
These results on low-mass companions of intermediate mass stars are
complementary to spectroscopic and interferometric results, and probe new
parameter space of low mass companions at all separations. They do not support
a steeply rising distribution of mass ratios to low masses for
intermediate-mass (5 Msun) primaries, such as would be found by random pairing
from the Initial Mass Function.