The vertical distribution of phytoplankton is of fundamental importance for
the dynamics and structure of aquatic communities. Here, using an
advection-reaction-diffusion model, we investigate the distribution and
competition of phytoplankton species in a water column, in which inverse
resource gradients of light and a nutrient can limit growth of the biomass.
This problem poses a challenge for ecologists, as the location of a production
layer is not fixed, but rather depends on many internal parameters and
environmental factors. In particular, we study the influence of an upper mixed
layer (UML) in this system and show that it leads to a variety of dynamic
effects: (i) Our model predicts alternative density profiles with a maximum of
biomass either within or below the UML, thereby the system may be bistable or
the relaxation from an unstable state may require a long-lasting transition.
(ii) Reduced mixing in the deep layer can induce oscillations of the biomass;
we show that a UML can sustain these oscillations even if the diffusivity is
less than the critical mixing for a sinking phytoplankton population. (iii) A
UML can strongly modify the outcome of competition between different
phytoplankton species, yielding bistability both in the spatial distribution
and in the species composition. (iv) A light limited species can obtain a
competitive advantage if the diffusivity in the deep layers is reduced below a
critical value. This yields a subtle competitive exclusion effect, where the
oscillatory states in the deep layers are displaced by steady solutions in the
UML. Finally, we present a novel graphical approach for deducing the
competition outcome and for the analysis of the role of a UML in aquatic
systems.