Radial surface brightness profiles of spiral galaxies are classified into
three types: (I) single exponential, or the light falls off with one
exponential to a break before falling off (II) more steeply, or (III) less
steeply. Profile breaks are also found in dwarf disks, but some dwarf Type IIs
are flat or increasing out to a break before falling off. Here we re-examine
the stellar disk profiles of 141 dwarfs: 96 dwarf irregulars (dIms), 26 Blue
Compact Dwarfs (BCDs), and 19 Magellanic-type spirals (Sms). We fit single,
double, or even triple exponential profiles in up to 11 passbands: GALEX FUV
and NUV, ground-based UBV JHK and H{\alpha}, and Spitzer 3.6 and 4.5 {\mu}m. We
find that more luminous galaxies have brighter centers, larger inner and outer
scale lengths, and break at larger radii; dwarf trends with M_B extend to
spirals. However, the V-band break surface brightness is independent of break
type, M_B, and Hubble type. Dwarf Type II and III profiles fall off similarly
beyond the breaks but have different interiors and IIs break ~twice as far as
IIIs. Outer Type II and III scale lengths may have weak trends with wavelength,
but pure Type II inner scale lengths clearly decrease from the FUV to visible
bands whereas Type III inner scale lengths increase with redder bands. This
suggests the influence of different star formation histories on profile type,
but nonetheless the break location is approximately the same in all passbands.
Dwarfs continue trends between profile and Hubble types such that later-type
galaxies have more Type II but fewer Type I and III profiles than early-type
spirals. BCDs and Sms are over-represented as Types III and II, respectively,
compared to dIms.