Neutron detectors are extensively used at many nuclear research facilities
across Europe. Their application range covers many topics in basic and applied
nuclear research: in nuclear structure and reaction dynamics (reaction
reconstruction and decay studies); in nuclear astrophysics (neutron emission
probabilities); in nuclear technology (nuclear data measurements and
in-core/off-core monitors); in nuclear medicine (radiation monitors,
dosimeters); in materials science (neutron imaging techniques); in homeland
security applications (fissile materials investigation and cargo inspection).
Liquid scintillators, widely used at present, have however some drawbacks given
by toxicity, flammability, volatility and sensitivity to oxygen that limit
their duration and quality. Even plastic scintillators are not satisfactory
because they have low radiation hardness and low thermal stability. Moreover
organic solvents may affect their optical properties due to crazing. In order
to overcome these problems, phenyl-polysiloxane based scintillators have been
recently developed at Legnaro National Laboratory. This new solution showed
very good chemical and thermal stability and high radiation hardness. The
results on the different samples performance will be presented, paying special
attention to a characterization comparison between synthesized phenyl
containing polysiloxane resins where a Pt catalyst has been used and a
scintillating material obtained by condensation reaction, where tin based
compounds are used as catalysts. Different structural arrangements as a result
of different substituents on the main chain have been investigated by High
Resolution X-Ray Diffraction, while the effect of improved optical
transmittance on the scintillation yield has been elucidated by a combination
of excitation/fluorescence measurements and scintillation yield under exposure
to alpha and {\gamma}-rays.