We present our investigation of pre--main-sequence (PMS) stellar populations
in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) from imaging with Hubble Space Telescope
WFPC2 camera. Our targets of interest are four star-forming regions located at
the periphery of the super-giant shell LMC 4 (Shapley Constellation III). The
PMS stellar content of the regions is revealed through the differential Hess
diagrams and the observed color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs). Further statistical
analysis of stellar distributions along cross-sections of the faint part of the
CMDs allowed the quantitative assessment of the PMS stars census, and the
isolation of faint PMS stars as the true low-mass stellar members of the
regions. These distributions are found to be well represented by a double
Gaussian function, the first component of which represents the main-sequence
field stars and the second the native PMS stars of each region. Based on this
result, a cluster membership probability was assigned to each PMS star
according to its CMD position. The higher extinction in the region LH 88 did
not allow the unambiguous identification of its native stellar population. The
CMD distributions of the PMS stars with the highest membership probability in
the regions LH 60, LH 63 and LH 72 exhibit an extraordinary similarity among
the regions, suggesting that these stars share common characteristics, as well
as common recent star formation history. Considering that the regions are
located at different areas of the edge of LMC 4, this finding suggests that
star formation along the super-giant shell may have occurred almost
simultaneously.