In this paper we consider the effect of a self-consistently computed
magnetosdisc field structure on the magnetosphere-ionosphere coupling current
system at Jupiter. We find that the azimuthal current intensity, and thus the
stretching of the magnetic field lines, is dependent on the
magnetosphere-ionosphere coupling current system parameters, i.e. the
ionospheric Pedersen conductivity and iogenic plasma mass outflow rate.
Overall, however, the equatorial magnetic field profiles obtained are similar
in the inner region to those used previously, such that the currents are of the
same order as previous solutions obtained using a fixed empirical equatorial
field strength model, although the outer fringing field of the current disc
acts to reverse the field-aligned current in the outer region. We also find
that, while the azimuthal current in the inner region is dominated by hot
plasma pressure, as is generally held to be the case at Jupiter, the use of a
realistic plasma angular velocity profile actually results in the centrifugal
current becoming dominant in the outer magnetosphere. In addition, despite the
dependence of the intensity of the azimuthal current on the
magnetosphere-ionosphere coupling current system parameters, the location of
the peak field-aligned current in the equatorial plane also varies, such that
the ionospheric location remains roughly constant. It is thus found that
significant changes to the mass density of the iogenic plasma disc are required
to explain the variation in the main oval location observed using the Hubble
Space Telescope.