The XA region of the Cygnus Loop is a bright knot of X-ray emission on the
eastern edge of the supernova remnant resulting from the interaction of the
supernova blast wave with density enhancements at the edge of a precursor
formed cavity. To study the nature and origin of the X-ray emission we use high
spatial resolution images from Chandra. Our goal is to probe the density of
various spectral extraction regions to form a picture of the cavity wall and
characterize the interaction between this supernova and the local interstellar
medium. We find that a series of regions along the edge of the X-ray emission
appears to trace out the location of the cavity wall. The best fit plasma
models result in two temperature component equilibrium models for each region.
The low temperature components have densities that are an order of magnitude
higher than the high temperature components. The high density plasma may exist
in the cavity wall where it equilibrates rapidly and cools efficiently. The low
density plasma is interior to the enhancement and heated further by a reverse
shock from the wall. Calculations of shock velocities and timescales since
shock heating are consistent with this interpretation. Furthermore, we find a
bright knot of emission indicative of a discrete interaction of the blast wave
with a high density cloud in the cavity wall with a size scale ~0.1 pc. Aside
from this, other extractions made interior to the X-ray edge are confused by
line of sight projection of various components. Some of these regions show
evidence of detecting the cavity wall but their location makes the
interpretation difficult. In general, the softer plasmas are well fit at
temperatures kT~0.11 keV, with harder plasmas at temperatures of kT~0.27 keV.
All regions display consistent metal depletions most notably in N, O, and Ne at
an average of 0.54, 0.55, and 0.36 times solar.