Multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) technology provides high data rate and
enhanced QoS for wireless com- munications. Since the benefits from MIMO result
in a heavy computational load in detectors, the design of low-complexity
sub-optimum receivers is currently an active area of research.
Lattice-reduction-aided detection (LRAD) has been shown to be an effective
low-complexity method with near-ML performance. In this paper we advocate the
use of systolic array architectures for MIMO receivers, and in particular we
exhibit one of them based on LRAD. The "LLL lattice reduction algorithm" and
the ensuing linear detections or successive spatial-interference cancellations
can be located in the same array, which is con- siderably hardware-efficient.
Since the conventional form of the LLL algorithm is not immediately suitable
for parallel processing, two modified LLL algorithms are considered here for
the systolic array. LLL algorithm with full-size reduction (FSR-LLL) is one of
the versions more suitable for parallel processing. Another variant is the
all-swap lattice-reduction (ASLR) algorithm for complex-valued lattices, which
processes all lattice basis vectors simultaneously within one iteration. Our
novel systolic array can operate both algorithms with different external logic
controls. In order to simplify the systolic array design, we replace the
Lov\'asz condition in the definition of LLL-reduced lattice with the looser
Siegel condition. Simulation results show that for LR- aided linear detections,
the bit-error-rate performance is still maintained with this relaxation.
Comparisons between the two algorithms in terms of bit-error-rate performance,
and average FPGA processing time in the systolic array are made, which shows
that ASLR is a better choice for a systolic architecture, especially for
systems with a large number of antennas.