We present an application of the stereoscopic self-similar-expansion model
(SSSEM) to Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory (STEREO)/Sun-Earth
Connection Coronal and Heliospheric Investigation (SECCHI) observations of the
03 April 2010 CME and its associated shock. The aim is to verify whether
CME-driven shock parameters can be inferred from the analysis of j-maps. For
this purpose we use the SSSEM to derive the CME and the shock kinematics.
Arrival times and speeds, inferred assuming either propagation at constant
speed or with uniform deceleration, show good agreement with Advanced
Composition Explorer (ACE) measurements. The shock standoff distance
$[\Delta]$, the density compression $[\frac{\rho_d}{\rho_u}]$ and the Mach
number $[M]$ are calculated combining the results obtained for the CME and
shock kinematics with models for the shock location. Their values are
extrapolated to $\textrm{L}_1$ and compared to in-situ data. The in-situ
standoff distance is obtained from ACE solar-wind measurements, and the Mach
number and compression ratio are provided by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics interplanetary shock database. They are $\frac{\rho_d}{\rho_u}
=2.84$ and $M = 2.2$. The best fit to observations is obtained when the SSSEM
half width $\lambda = 40 \deg$ and the CME and shock propagate with uniform
deceleration. In this case we find $\Delta = 23 \textrm{R}_{\odot}$,
$\frac{\rho_d}{\rho_u} =2.61$, and $M = 2.93$. The study shows that CME-driven
shock parameters can be estimated from the analysis of time-elongation plots
and can be used to predict their in-situ values.