We present the first high-resolution study of the disk-halo interface in an
edge-on galaxy (NGC 5775) in which every component of the interstellar medium
is represented and resolved. New single-dish CO J=2-1 and CO J=1-0 data, ROSAT
X-ray data, and HIRES IRAS data are presented along with HI data which
emphasizes the high latitude features. In conjunction with previously published
radio continuum (6 and 20 cm) and H alpha data, we find spatial correlations
between various ISM components in that all components of the ISM are present in
the disk-halo features (except for CO for which there is insufficient spatial
coverage). The HI features extend to about 7 kpc above the plane. In one case,
a loop is detected in position-velocity space, and are also observed over a
large velocity range. This implies that the disk-halo features represent
expanding supershells. However, the shells may be incomplete and partially
open-topped, suggesting that we are observing the breakup of the supershells as
they traverse the disk-halo interface. There is some evidence for acceleration
with z height and both redshifted and blueshifted velocities are present,
although the gas which is lagging with respect to galactic rotation dominates.
The radio continuum spectral index is flatter around the shell rims, suggesting
that shocks may be important in these regions (thermal contribution can not
account for this flattening). The H alpha emission is located interior to the
HI. For feature F3, the H alpha emission forms the interior "skin" of the HI
shell, yet there appears to be a minimum of in-disk star formation immediately
below the feature. We present a picture of a "typical" HI supershell which
accelerates and breaks up through the disk-halo interface. Such a feature is
likely internally generated via an energetic event in the disk.