We present results using 2-D spectral imagery and photometry obtained with
the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) for the starburst H II region, NGC 604, in
nearby galaxy M33. The spectral imagery was acquired with the Space Telescope
Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) using the MAMA/G140L configuration, spanning
1170-1730 A. From a single 1720 sec STIS exposure, we extracted spectra for 49
stars and derived individual UV spectral types for 40 stars in the crowded
25"x2" stellar field. These stars represent a significant fraction of the
young, luminous O and B stars. Three objects have pronounced He II 1640
emission, the signature of W-R or luminous Of stars. By combining UV fluxes
with WFPC and WFPC2 visual photometry, we derive the extinction curve for NGC
604. We use this curve, the distance for M33, derived UV spectral types, and
HST photometry, to determine positions of these stars in the upper H-R diagram.
The revised O star effective temperature scale (Martins et al.) is essential in
obtaining reliable positions in the log(L*)-log(T(eff)) plane. These stars are
quite young with an age of ~3 Myr. The spectra and photometry indicate three
exceedingly luminous objects. Their inferred locations in the H-R diagram
indicate stellar masses > 120 solar masses. High spatial resolution HST imagery
provides no evidence of multiple stars composing these objects. Still we cannot
eliminate the possibility that they are unresolved multiple stars of lower
mass, possibly W-R stars. Tests demonstrate that the ten most luminous stars
predominantly determine the UV spectral features seen in the total light of NGC
604. We conclude that interpretation of spectral fitting of more distant
starburst galaxies, where individual stars are not resolved, must be done with
extreme care.