The newly developed deep-sequencing technologies make it possible to acquire
both quantitative and qualitative information regarding transcript biology. By
measuring messenger RNA levels for all genes in a sample, RNA-seq provides an
attractive option to characterize the global changes in transcription. RNA-seq
is becoming the widely used platform for gene expression profiling. However,
real transcription signals in the RNA-seq data are confounded with measurement
and sequencing errors, and other random biological/technical variation. How to
appropriately take the variability due to errors and sequencing technology
variation into account is essential issue in the RNA-seq data analysis. To
extract biologically useful transcription process from the RNA-seq data, we
propose to use the second ODE for modeling the RNA-seq data. We use
differential principal analysis to develop statistical methods for estimation
of location-varying coefficients of the ODE. We validate the accuracy of the
ODE model to fit the RNA-seq data by prediction analysis and 5 fold cross
validation. We find the accuracy of the second ODE model to predict the gene
expression level across the gene is very high and the second ODE model to fit
the RNA-seq data very well. To further evaluate the performance of the ODE
model for RNA-seq data analysis, we used the location-varying coefficients of
the second ODE as features to classify the normal and tumor cells. We
demonstrate that even using the ODE model for single gene we can achieve high
classification accuracy. We also conduct response analysis to investigate how
the transcription process respond to the perturbation of the external signals
and identify dozens of genes that are related to cancer.