The high sensitivity of the XMM-Newton instrumentation offers the opportunity
to study faint and extended sources in the Milky Way and nearby galaxies such
as the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) in detail. The ROSAT PSPC survey of the LMC
has revealed more than 700 X-ray sources, among which there are 46 supernova
remnants (SNRs) and candidates. We have observed the field around one of the
most promising SNR candidates in the ROSAT PSPC catalogue, labelled [HP99] 456
with XMM-Newton, to determine its nature. We investigated the XMM-Newton data
along with new radio-continuum, near infrared and optical data. In particular,
spectral and morphological studies of the X-ray and radio data were performed.
The X-ray images obtained in different energy bands reveal two different
structures. Below 1.0 keV the X-ray emission shows the shell-like morphology of
an SNR with a diameter of ~73 pc, one of the largest known in the LMC. For its
thermal spectrum we estimate an electron temperature of (0.49 +/- 0.12)keV
assuming non-equilibrium ionisation. The X-ray images above 1.0 keV reveal a
less extended source within the SNR emission, located ~1' west of the centre of
the SNR and coincident with bright point sources detected in radio-continuum.
This hard component has an extent of 0.9' (i.e. ~13 pc at a distance of ~50
kpc) and a non-thermal spectrum. The hard source coincides in position with the
ROSAT source [HP99] 456 and shows an indication for substructure. We firmly
identify a new SNR in the LMC with a shell-like morphology and a thermal
spectrum. Assuming the SNR to be in the Sedov phase yields an age of ~23 kyr.
We explore possible associations of the hard non-thermal emitting component
with a pulsar wind nebula (PWN) or background active galactic nuclei (AGN).