The binary brown dwarf WISE J104915.57$-$531906.1 (also Luhman 16AB),
composed of a late L and early T dwarf, is a prototypical L/T transition flux
reversal binary located at only 2 pc distance. Luhman 16B is a known variable
whose light curves evolve rapidly. We present spatially resolved spectroscopic
time-series of Luhman 16A and B covering 6.5 h using HST/WFC3 at 1.1 to 1.66
$\mu$m. The small, count-dependent variability of Luhman 16A at the beginning
of the observations likely stems from instrumental systematics; Luhman 16A
appears non-variable above $\approx$0.4%. Its spectrum is well fit by a single
cloud layer with intermediate cloud thickness (f_sed=2, Teff=1200 K). Luhman
16B varies at all wavelengths with peak-to-valley amplitudes of 7-11%. The
amplitude and light curve shape changes over only one rotation period. The
lowest relative amplitude is found in the deep water absorption band at 1.4
$\mu$m, otherwise it mostly decreases gradually from the blue to the red edge
of the spectrum. This is very similar to the other two known highly variable
early T dwarfs. A two-component cloud model accounts for most of the
variability, although small deviations are seen in the water absorption band.
We fit the mean spectrum and relative amplitudes with a linear combination of
two models of a warm, thinner cloud (Teff=1300 K, fsed=3) and a cooler, thicker
cloud (Teff=1000-1100 K, f_sed=1), assuming out-of-equilibrium atmospheric
chemistry. A cloud as for Luhman 16A but with holes cannot reproduce the
variability of Luhman 16B, indicating more complex cloud evolution through the
L/T transition. The projected separation of the binary has decreased by
$\approx$0.3'' in 8 months.