We report high-resolution spectroscopic follow-up observations of the faint
transiting planet candidate OGLE-TR-33 (V = 14.7), located in the direction of
the Galactic center. Small changes in the radial velocity of the star were
detected that suggested initially the presence of a large planet or brown dwarf
in orbit. However, further analysis revealed spectral line asymmetries that
change in phase with the 1.95-day period, casting doubt on those measurements.
These asymmetries make it more likely that the transit-like events in the light
curve are the result of contamination from the light of an eclipsing binary
along the same line of sight (referred to as a "blend"). We performed detailed
simulations in which we generated synthetic light curves resulting from such
blend scenarios and fitted them to the measured light curve. Guided by these
fits and the inferred properties of the stars, we uncovered a second set of
lines in our spectra that correspond to the primary of the eclipsing binary and
explain the asymmetries. Using all the constraints from spectroscopy we were
then able to construct a model that satisfies all the observations, and to
characterize the three stars based on model isochrones. OGLE-TR-33 is fully
consistent with being a hierarchical triple system composed of a slightly
evolved F6 star (the brighter object) near the end of its main-sequence phase,
and an eclipsing binary with a K7-M0 star orbiting an F4 star. The application
to OGLE-TR-33 of the formalism developed to fit light curves of transit
candidates illustrates the power of such simulations for predicting additional
properties of the blend and for guiding further observations that may serve to
confirm that scenario, thereby ruling out a planet. Tests such as this can be
very important for validating faint candidates.