New JCMT HARP CO 3-2 observations of the W5 star forming complex are
presented, totaling an area of 12000 arcmin^2 with sensitivity better than 0.1
K per 0.4 km/s channel. We discovered 55 CO outflow candidates, of which 40 are
associated with W5 and 15 are more distant than the Perseus arm. Most of the
outflows are located on the periphery of the W5 HII region. However, two
outflow clusters are > 5 pc from the ionization fronts, indicating that their
driving protostars formed without directly being triggered by the O-stars in
W5. We compare the derived outflow properties to those in Perseus and find that
the total W5 outflow mass is surprisingly low given the cloud masses. The
outflow mass deficiency in the more massive W5 cloud (M(H2) ~ 5 \times 10^4
Msun) can be explained if ionizing radiation dissociates molecules as they
break out of their host cloud cores. Although CO J=3-2 is a good outflow
tracer, it is likely to be a poor mass tracer because of sub-thermal line
excitation and high opacity, which may also contribute to the outflow mass
discrepancy. It is unlikely that outflows could provide the observed turbulent
energy in the W5 molecular clouds even accounting for undetected outflow
material. Many cometary globules have been observed with velocity gradients
from head to tail, displaying strong interaction with the W5 HII region and
exhibiting signs of triggered or revealed star formation in their heads.
Because it is observed face-on, W5 is an excellent region to study feedback
effects, both positive and negative, of massive stars on star formation.