We present the results of a study confronting density maps reconstructed by
the Delaunay Tessellation Field Estimator (DTFE) and by regular SPH
kernel-based techniques. The comparison between the two methods clearly
demonstrates the superior performance of the DTFE with respect to conventional
SPH methods, in particular at locations where SPH appears to fail. The DTFE is
a fully self-adaptive technique for reconstructing continuous density fields
from discrete particle distributions, and is based upon the corresponding
Delaunay tessellation. Its principal asset is its complete independence of
arbitrary smoothing functions and parameters specifying the properties of
these. As a result it manages to faithfully reproduce the anisotropies of the
local particle distribution and through its adaptive and local nature proves to
be optimally suited for uncovering the full structural richness in the density
distribution. Through the improvement in local density estimates, calculations
invoking the DTFE will yield a much better representation of physical processes
which depend on density. The presented results form an encouraging step towards
the application and insertion of the DTFE in astrophysical hydrocodes. We
describe an outline for the construction of a particle hydrodynamics code in
which the DTFE replaces kernel-based methods. Further discussion addresses the
issue and possibilities for a moving grid based hydrocode invoking the DTFE,
and Delaunay tessellations, in an attempt to combine the virtues of the
Eulerian and Lagrangian approaches.