With the increasing prevalence of location-aware devices, trajectory data has
been generated and collected in various application domains. Trajectory data
carries rich information that is useful for many data analysis tasks. Yet,
improper publishing and use of trajectory data could jeopardize individual
privacy. However, it has been shown that existing privacy-preserving trajectory
data publishing methods derived from partition-based privacy models, for
example k-anonymity, are unable to provide sufficient privacy protection.
  In this paper, motivated by the data publishing scenario at the Societe de
transport de Montreal (STM), the public transit agency in Montreal area, we
study the problem of publishing trajectory data under the rigorous differential
privacy model. We propose an efficient data-dependent yet differentially
private sanitization algorithm, which is applicable to different types of
trajectory data. The efficiency of our approach comes from adaptively narrowing
down the output domain by building a noisy prefix tree based on the underlying
data. Moreover, as a post-processing step, we make use of the inherent
constraints of a prefix tree to conduct constrained inferences, which lead to
better utility. This is the first paper to introduce a practical solution for
publishing large volume of trajectory data under differential privacy. We
examine the utility of sanitized data in terms of count queries and frequent
sequential pattern mining. Extensive experiments on real-life trajectory data
from the STM demonstrate that our approach maintains high utility and is
scalable to large trajectory datasets.