We describe a low-cost, open-access, CubeSat-based calibration instrument
that is designed to support ground-based and sub-orbital experiments searching
for various polarization signals in the cosmic microwave background (CMB). All
modern CMB polarization experiments require a robust calibration program that
will allow the effects of instrument-induced signals to be mitigated during
data analysis. A bright, compact, and linearly polarized astrophysical source
with polarization properties known to adequate precision does not exist.
Therefore, we designed a space-based millimeter-wave calibration instrument,
called CalSat, to serve as an open-access calibrator, and this paper describes
the results of our design study. The calibration source on board CalSat is
composed of five "tones" with one each at 47.1, 80.0, 140, 249 and 309 GHz. The
five tones we chose are well matched to (i) the observation windows in the
atmospheric transmittance spectra, (ii) the spectral bands commonly used in
polarimeters by the CMB community, and (iii) The Amateur Satellite Service
bands in the Table of Frequency Allocations used by the Federal Communications
Commission. CalSat would be placed in a polar orbit allowing visibility from
observatories in the Northern Hemisphere, such as Mauna Kea in Hawaii and
Summit Station in Greenland, and the Southern Hemisphere, such as the Atacama
Desert in Chile and the South Pole. CalSat also would be observable by
balloon-borne instruments launched from a range of locations around the world.
This global visibility makes CalSat the only source that can be observed by all
terrestrial and sub-orbital observatories, thereby providing a universal
standard that permits comparison between experiments using appreciably
different measurement approaches.