In the context of blackhole perturbation theory, we describe both exact
evaluation of an asymptotic waveform from a time series recorded at a finite
radial location and its numerical approximation. From the user's standpoint our
technique is easy to implement, affords high accuracy, and works for both axial
(Regge-Wheeler) and polar (Zerilli) sectors. Our focus is on the ease of
implementation with publicly available numerical tables, either as part of an
existing evolution code or a post-processing step. Nevertheless, we also
present a thorough theoretical discussion of asymptotic waveform evaluation and
radiation boundary conditions, which need not be understood by a user of our
methods. In particular, we identify (both in the time and frequency domains)
analytical asymptotic waveform evaluation kernels, and describe their
approximation by techniques developed by Alpert, Greengard, and Hagstrom. This
paper also presents new results on the evaluation of far-field signals for the
ordinary (acoustic) wave equation. We apply our method to study late-time decay
tails at null-infinity, "teleportation" of a signal between two finite radial
values, and luminosities from extreme-mass-ratio binaries. Through numerical
simulations with the outer boundary as close in as r = 30M, we compute
asymptotic waveforms with late-time t^{-4} decay (l = 2 perturbations), and
also luminosities from circular and eccentric particle-orbits that respectively
match frequency domain results to relative errors of better than 10^{-12} and
10^{-9}. Furthermore, we find that asymptotic waveforms are especially prone to
contamination by spurious junk radiation.