We present results of numerical simulation of inviscid thick accretion disks
and wind flows around black holes. We use Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH)
technique for this purpose. Formation of thick disks are found to be preceded
by shock waves travelling away from the centrifugal barrier. For a large range
of the parameter space, the travelling shock settles at a distance close to the
location obtained by a one-and-a-half dimensional model of inviscid accretion
disks. Occasionally, it is observed that accretion processes are aided by the
formation of oblique shock waves, particularly in the initial transient phase.
The post-shock region (where infall velocity suddenly becomes very small)
resembles that of the usual model of thick accretion disk discussed in the
literature, though they have considerable turbulence. The flow subsequently
becomes supersonic before falling into the black hole. In a large number of
cases which we simulate, we find the formation of strong winds which are hot
and subsonic when originated from the disk surface very close to the black hole
but become supersonic within a few tens of the Schwarzschild radius of the
blackhole. In the case of accretion of high angular momentum flow, very little
amount of matter is accreted directly onto the black hole. Most of the matter
is, however, first squeezed to a small volume close to the black hole, and
subsequently expands and is expelled as a strong wind. It is quite possible
that this expulsion of matter and the formation of cosmic radio jets is aided
by the shock heating in the inner parts of the accretion disks.