We present high spatial resolution observations of the dusty core of the
Planetary Nebula with Wolf-Rayet central star CPD-568032. These observations
were taken with the mid-infrared interferometer VLTI/MIDI in imaging mode
providing a typical 300 mas resolution and in interferometric mode using
UT2-UT3 47m baseline providing a typical spatial resolution of 20 mas. The
visible HST images exhibit a complex multilobal geometry dominated by faint
lobes. The farthest structures are located at 7" from the star. The mid-IR
environment of CPD-568032 is dominated by a compact source, barely resolved by
a single UT telescope in a 8.7 micron filter. The infrared core is almost fully
resolved with the three 40-45m projected baselines ranging from -5 to 51 degree
but smooth oscillating fringes at low level have been detected in spectrally
dispersed visibilities. This clear signal is interpreted in terms of a ring
structure which would define the bright inner rim of the equatorial disk.
Geometric models allowed us to derive the main geometrical parameters of the
disk. For instance, a reasonably good fit is reached with an achromatic and
elliptical truncated Gaussian with a radius of 97+/-11 AU, an inclination of
28+/-7 degree and a PA for the major axis at 345+/-7 degree. Furthermore, we
performed some radiative transfer modeling aimed at further constraining the
geometry and mass content of the disk, by taking into account the MIDI
dispersed visibilities, spectra, and the large aperture SED of the source.
These models show that the disk is mostly optically thin in the N band and
highly flared.