Context. The origin of coronal type-II radio bursts and of their
band-splitting are still not fully understood. Aims. To make progress in
solving this problem on the basis of one extremely well observed solar eruptive
event. Methods. The relative dynamics of multi-thermal eruptive plasmas,
observed in detail by the SDO/AIA and of the harmonic type-II burst sources,
observed by the NRH at ten frequencies from 445 to 151 MHz, is studied for the
partially behind the limb event on 3 November 2010. Special attention is given
to the band-splitting of the burst. Analysis is supplemented by investigation
of coronal hard X-ray (HXR) sources observed by the RHESSI. Results. It is
found that the flare impulsive phase was accompanied by the formation of a
double coronal HXR source, whose upper part coincided with the hot (T~10 MK)
eruptive plasma blob. The leading edge (LE) of the eruptive plasmas (T~1-2 MK)
moved upward from the flare region with the speed of v=900-1400 km/s. The type
II burst source initially appeared just above the LE apex and moved with the
same speed and in the same direction. After about 20 s it started to move about
twice faster, but still in the same direction. At any given moment the low
frequency component (LFC) source of the splitted type-II burst was situated
above the high frequency component (HFC) source, which in turn was situated
above the LE. It is also found that at a given frequency the HFC source was
located slightly closer to the photosphere than the LFC source. Conclusions.
The shock wave, which could be responsible for the observed type-II radio
burst, was initially driven by the multi-temperature eruptive plasmas, but
later transformed to a freely propagating blast shock wave. The most preferable
interpretation of the type-II burst splitting is that its LFC was emitted from
the upstream region of the shock, whereas the HFC - from the downstream region.