Organic matter and hydrous silicates are intimately mixed in the matrix of
chondrites and in-situ determination of their individual D/H ratios is
therefore challenging. Nevertheless, the D/H ratio of each pure component in
this mixture should yield a comprehensible signature of the origin and
evolution of water and organic matter in our solar system. We measured hydrogen
isotope ratios of organic and hydrous silicates in the matrices of two
carbonaceous chondrites (Orgueil CI1 and Renazzo CR2) and one unequilibrated
ordinary chondrite (Semarkona, LL3.0). A novel protocol was adopted, involving
NanoSIMS imaging of H isotopes of monoatomatic ($H^-$) and molecular ($OH^-$)
secondary ions collected at the same location. This allowed the most enriched
component with respect to D to be identified in the mixture. Using this
protocol, we found that in carbonaceous chondrites the isotopically homogeneous
hydrous silicates are mixed with D-rich organic matter. The opposite was
observed in Semarkona. Hydrous silicates in Semarkona display highly
heterogeneous D/H ratios, ranging from $150$ to $1800$ ${\times}$ $10^{-6}$
(${\delta}D_{SMOW} = -40$ to $10,600$ permil). Organic matter in Semarkona does
not show such large isotopic variations. This suggests limited isotopic
exchange between the two phases during aqueous alteration. Our study greatly
expands the range of water isotopic values measured so far in solar system
objects. This D-rich water reservoir was sampled by the LL ordinary chondrite
parent body and an estimate (up to 9 %) of its relative contribution to the D/H
ratio of water in Oort cloud family comets is proposed.