We present 2MASS $JHK_{\rm s}$ photometry for 913 star clusters and
candidates in the field of M31, which are selected from the latest Revised
Bologna Catalog of M31 globular clusters (GCs) and candidates. The photometric
measurements in this paper supplement this catalog, and provide a most
comprehensive and homogeneous photometric catalog for M31 GCs in the $JHK_{\rm
s}$ bandpasses. In general, our photometry is consistent with previous
measurements. The globular cluster luminosity function (GCLF) peaks for the
confirmed GCs derived by fitting a $t_5$ distribution using maximum likelihood
method are: $J_0 = 15.348_{-0.208}^{+0.206}$, $H_0 = 14.703_{-0.180}^{+0.176}$,
and ${K_{\rm s}}_0 = 14.534_{-0.146}^{+0.142}$, all of which agree well with
previous studies. The GCLFs are different between metal-rich (MR) and
metal-poor (MP), inner and outer subpopulations, as that MP clusters are
fainter than their MR counterparts, and the inner clusters are brighter than
the outer ones, which confirm previous results. The NIR colors of the GC
candidates are on average redder than those of the confirmed GCs, which lead to
an obscure bimodal distribution of the color indices. The relation of
$(V-K_{\rm s})_0$ and metallicity shows a notable departure from linearity,
with a shallower slope towards the redder end. The color-magnitude diagram
(CMD) and color-color diagram show that many GC candidates are located out of
the evolutionary tracks, suggesting that some of them may be false M31 GC
candidates. The CMD also shows that the initial mass function of M31 GCs covers
a large range, and the majority of the clusters have initial masses between
$10^3$ and $10^6$ $M_{\odot}$.