In order to examine if the next generation space VLBI,such as VSOP-2 (VLBI
Space Observatory Programme-2), will make it possible to obtain direct images
of the accretion flow around the M87 black hole, we calculate the expected
observed images by the relativistic ray-tracing simulations under the
considerations of possible observational errors. We consider various cases of
electron temperature profiles, as well as a variety of the distance, mass, and
spin of the M87 black hole. We find it feasible to detect an asymmetric
intensity profile around the black hole caused by rapid disk rotation, as long
as the electron temperature does not steeply rises towards the black hole, as
was predicted by the accretion disk theory and the three dimensional
magnetohydrodynamic simulations. Further, we can detect a deficit in the
observed intensity around the black hole when the apparent size of the
gravitational radius is larger than $\gtrsim 1.5 \mu$ arcseconds. In the cases
that the inner edge of the disk is located at the radius of the innermost
stable circular orbit (ISCO), moreover, even the black hole spin will be
measured. We also estimate the required signal-to-noise ratio $\mathcal{R}_{\rm
SN}$ for achieving the scientific goals mentioned above, finding that it should
be at least 10 at 22 GHz. To conclude, direct mapping observations by the next
generation space VLBI will provide us a unique opportunity to provide the best
evidence for the presence of a black hole and to test the accretion disk
theory.