[abridged]
  Aims. Our Herschel Open Time Key Programme DUNES aims at detecting and
characterizing debris disks around nearby, sun-like stars. In addition to the
statistical analysis of the data, the detailed study of single objects through
spatially resolving the disk and detailed modeling of the data is a main goal
of the project.
  Methods. We obtained the first observations spatially resolving the debris
disk around the sun-like star HIP 17439 (HD23484) using the instruments PACS
and SPIRE on board the Herschel Space Observatory. Simultaneous
multi-wavelength modeling of these data together with ancillary data from the
literature is presented.
  Results. A standard single component disk model fails to reproduce the major
axis radial profiles at 70 um, 100 um, and 160 um simultaneously. Moreover, the
best-fit parameters derived from such a model suggest a very broad disk
extending from few au up to few hundreds of au from the star with a nearly
constant surface density which seems physically unlikely. However, the
constraints from both the data and our limited theoretical investigation are
not strong enough to completely rule out this model. An alternative, more
plausible, and better fitting model of the system consists of two rings of dust
at approx. 30 au and 90 au, respectively, while the constraints on the
parameters of this model are weak due to its complexity and intrinsic
degeneracies.
  Conclusions. The disk is probably composed of at least two components with
different spatial locations (but not necessarily detached), while a single,
broad disk is possible, but less likely. The two spatially well-separated rings
of dust in our best-fit model suggest the presence of at least one high mass
planet or several low-mass planets clearing the region between the two rings
from planetesimals and dust.