${\it Swift}$ J2058.4+0516 (Sw J2058+05, hereafter) has been suggested as the
second member (after Sw J1644+57) of the rare class of tidal disruption events
accompanied by relativistic ejecta. Here we report a multiwavelength (X-ray,
ultraviolet/optical/infrared, radio) analysis of Sw J2058+05 from 3 months to 3
yr post-discovery in order to study its properties and compare its behavior
with that of Sw J1644+57. Our main results are as follows. (1) The long-term
X-ray light curve of Sw J2058+05 shows a remarkably similar trend to that of Sw
J1644+57. After a prolonged power-law decay, the X-ray flux drops off rapidly
by a factor of $\gtrsim 160$ within a span of $\Delta$$t$/$t$ $\le$ 0.95.
Associating this sudden decline with the transition from super-Eddington to
sub-Eddington accretion, we estimate the black hole mass to be in the range of
$10^{4-6}$ M$_{\odot}$. (2) We detect rapid ($\lesssim 500$ s) X-ray
variability before the dropoff, suggesting that, even at late times, the X-rays
originate from close to the black hole (ruling out a forward-shock origin). (3)
We confirm using ${\it HST}$ and VLBA astrometry that the location of the
source coincides with the galaxy's center to within $\lesssim 400$ pc (in
projection). (4) We modeled Sw J2058+05's ultraviolet/optical/infrared spectral
energy distribution with a single-temperature blackbody and find that while the
radius remains more or less constant at a value of $63.4 \pm 4.5$ AU ($\sim
10^{15}$ cm) at all times during the outburst, the blackbody temperature drops
significantly from $\sim$ 30,000 K at early times to a value of $\sim$ 15,000 K
at late times (before the X-ray dropoff). Our results strengthen Sw J2058+05's
interpretation as a tidal disruption event similar to Sw J1644+57. For such
systems, we suggest the rapid X-ray dropoff as a diagnostic for black hole
mass.