We present the first fully and uniformly sampled, spatially complete HI
survey of the entire Magellanic System with high velocity resolution, performed
with the Parkes Telescope. The final data-cubes have an rms noise of sigma ~
0.05 K and an effective angular resolution of 16 arcmin. The Large Magellanic
Cloud (LMC) and the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) are associated with huge
gaseous features with a total HI mass of M(HI) = 4.87 10^8 M_sun [d/55 kpc]^2,
if all HI gas is at the same distance of 55 kpc. Approximately two thirds of
this HI gas is located close to the Magellanic Clouds (Magellanic Bridge and
Interface Region), and 25% of the HI gas is associated with the Magellanic
Stream. The Leading Arm has a four times lower HI mass than the Magellanic
Stream, corresponding to 6% of the total HI mass of the gaseous features. We
have analyzed the velocity field of the Magellanic Clouds and their
neighborhood introducing a LMC-standard-of-rest frame. The HI in the Magellanic
Bridge shows low velocities relative to the Magellanic Clouds suggesting an
almost parallel motion, while the gas in the Interface Region has significantly
higher relative velocities indicating that this gas is leaving the Magellanic
Bridge building up a new section of the Magellanic Stream. The clouds in the
Magellanic Stream and the Leading Arm show significant differences, both in the
column density distribution and in the shapes of the line profiles. The HI gas
in the Magellanic Stream is more smoothly distributed than the gas in the
Leading Arm. These morphological differences can be explained if the Leading
Arm is at considerably lower z-heights and embedded in a higher pressure
ambient medium.