To date, no accretion model has succeeded in reproducing all observed
constraints in the inner Solar System. These constraints include 1) the orbits,
in particular the small eccentricities, and 2) the masses of the terrestrial
planets -- Mars' relatively small mass in particular has not been adequately
reproduced in previous simulations; 3) the formation timescales of Earth and
Mars, as interpreted from Hf/W isotopes; 4) the bulk structure of the asteroid
belt, in particular the lack of an imprint of planetary embryo-sized objects;
and 5) Earth's relatively large water content, assuming that it was delivered
in the form of water-rich primitive asteroidal material. Here we present
results of 40 high-resolution (N=1000-2000) dynamical simulations of late-stage
planetary accretion with the goal of reproducing these constraints, although
neglecting the planet Mercury. We assume that Jupiter and Saturn are
fully-formed at the start of each simulation, and test orbital configurations
that are both consistent with and contrary to the "Nice model." We find that a
configuration with Jupiter and Saturn on circular orbits forms low-eccentricity
terrestrial planets and a water-rich Earth on the correct timescale, but Mars'
mass is too large by a factor of 5-10 and embryos are often stranded in the
asteroid belt. A configuration with Jupiter and Saturn in their current
locations but with slightly higher initial eccentricities (e = 0.07-0.1)
produces a small Mars, an embryo-free asteroid belt, and a reasonable Earth
analog but rarely allows water delivery to Earth. None of the configurations we
tested reproduced all the observed constraints. (abridged)