The experimental results relevant for the understanding of the microscopic
dynamics in liquid metals are reviewed, with special regards to the ones
achieved in the last two decades. Inelastic Neutron Scattering played a major
role since the development of neutron facilities in the sixties. The last ten
years, however, saw the development of third generation radiation sources,
which opened the possibility of performing Inelastic Scattering with X rays,
thus disclosing previously unaccessible energy-momentum regions. The purely
coherent response of X rays, moreover, combined with the mixed
coherent/incoherent response typical of neutron scattering, provides enormous
potentialities to disentangle aspects related to the collectivity of motion
from the single particle dynamics.
  If the last twenty years saw major experimental developments, on the
theoretical side fresh ideas came up to the side of the most traditional and
established theories. Beside the raw experimental results, therefore, we review
models and theoretical approaches for the description of microscopic dynamics
over different length-scales, from the hydrodynamic region down to the single
particle regime, walking the perilous and sometimes uncharted path of the
generalized hydrodynamics extension. Approaches peculiar of conductive systems,
based on the ionic plasma theory, are also considered, as well as kinetic and
mode coupling theory applied to hard sphere systems, which turn out to mimic
with remarkable detail the atomic dynamics of liquid metals. Finally, cutting
edges issues and open problems, such as the ultimate origin of the anomalous
acoustic dispersion or the relevance of transport properties of a conductive
systems in ruling the ionic dynamic structure factor are discussed.