Weight at delivery is a standard cumulative measure of placental growth. But
weight is a crude summary of other placental characteristics, such as the size
and shape of the chorionic plate and the location of the umbilical cord
insertion. Distributions of such measures across a cohort reveal information
about the developmental history of the chorionic plate that is unavailable from
an analysis based solely on the mean and standard deviation. Various measures
were determined from digitized images of chorionic plates obtained from the
Pregnancy, Infection, and Nutrition Study, a prospective cohort study of
preterm birth in central North Carolina between 2002 and 2004. The centroids
(the geometric centers) and umbilical cord insertions were taken directly from
the images. The chorionic plate outlines were obtained from an interpolation
based on a Fourier series, while eccentricity (of the best-fit ellipse),
skewness, and kurtosis were determined from a shape analysis using the method
of moments. The distribution of each variable was compared against the normal,
lognormal, and Levy distributions. We found only a single measure
(eccentricity) with a normal distribution. All other placental measures
required lognormal or "heavy-tailed" distributions to account for moderate to
extreme deviations from the mean, where relative likelihoods in the cohort far
exceeded those of a normal distribution. Normal and lognormal distributions
result from the accumulated effects of a large number of independent additive
(normal) or multiplicative (lognormal) events. Thus, while most placentas
appear to develop by a series of small, regular, and independent steps, the
presence of heavy-tailed distributions suggests that many show shape features
which are more consistent with a large number of correlated steps or fewer, but
substantially larger, independent steps.