A perturber may excite a coherent mode in a star cluster or galaxy. If the
stellar system is stable, it is commonly assumed that such a mode will be
strongly damped and therefore of little practical consequence other than
redistributing momentum and energy deposited by the perturber. This paper
demonstrates that this assumption is false; weakly damped modes exist and may
persist long enough to have observable consequences. To do this, a method for
investigating the dispersion relation for spherical stellar systems and for
locating weakly damped modes in particular is developed and applied to King
models of varying concentration. This leads to the following remarkable result:
King models exhibit {\it very} weakly damped $m=1$ modes over a wide range of
concentration ($0.67\le c\le1.5$ have been examined). The predicted damping
time is tens to hundreds of crossing times. This mode causes the peak density
to shift from and slowly revolve about the initial center. The existence of the
mode is supported by n-body simulation. Higher order modes and possible
astronomical consequences are discussed. Weakly damped modes, for example, may
provide a natural explanation for observed discrepancies between density and
kinematic centers in galaxies, the location of velocity cusps due to massive
black holes, and $m=1$ disturbances of disks embedded in massive halos.
Gravitational shocking may excite the $m=1$ mode in globular clusters, which
could modify their subsequent evolution and displace the positions of exotic
remnants.