The JASMIN super-data-cluster is being deployed to support the data analysis
requirements of the UK and European climate and earth system modelling
community. Physical colocation of the core JASMIN resource with significant
components of the facility for Climate and Environmental Monitoring from Space
(CEMS) provides additional support for the earth observation community, as well
as facilitating further comparison and evaluation of models with data. JASMIN
and CEMS together centrally deploy 9.3 PB of storage - 4.6 PB of Panasas fast
disk storage alongside the STFC Atlas Tape Store. Over 370 computing cores
provide local computation. Remote JASMIN resources at Bristol, Leeds and
Reading provide additional distributed storage and compute configured to
support local workflow as a stepping stone to using the central JASMIN system.
Fast network links from JASMIN provide reliable communication between the UK
supercomputers MONSooN (at the Met Office) and HECToR (at the University of
Edinburgh). JASMIN also supports European users via a light path to KNMI in the
Netherlands. The functional components of the JASMIN infrastructure have been
designed to support and integrate workflows for three main goals: (1) the
efficient operation of data curation and facilitation at the STFC Centre for
Environmental Data Archival; (2) efficient data analysis by the UK and European
climate and earth system science communities, and; (3) flexible access for the
climate impacts and earth observation communities to complex data and
concomitant services.