We aim to study the spatial distribution of the physical and chemical
properties of the X-ray emitting plasma of the supernova remnant G272.2-3.2, in
order to get important constraints on its ionization stage, on the progenitor
supernova explosion, and the age of the remnant. We report combined XMM-Newton
and Chandra images, median photon energy map, silicon and sulfur equivalent
width maps, and a spatially resolved spectral analysis for a set of regions of
the remnant. Complementary radio and H{\alpha} observations, available in the
literature, are also used to study the multi-wavelength connection of all
detected emissions. The X-ray morphology of the remnant displays an overall
structure with an almost circular appearance, a centrally brightened hard
region, with a peculiar elongated hard structure oriented along the
northwest-southeast direction of the central part. The X-ray spectral study of
the regions shows distinct K{\alpha} emission-line features of metal elements,
confirming the thermal origin of the emission. The X-ray spectra are well
represented by an absorbed VNEI thermal plasma model, which produces elevated
abundances of Si, S, and Fe in the circular central region, typical of ejecta
material. The values of abundances found in the central region of the SNR favor
a Type Ia progenitor for this remnant. The outer region shows abundances below
the solar value, as expected if the emission arises from the shocked ISM. The
relatively low ionization timescales suggests non-equilibrium ionization. We
identify the location of the contact discontinuity. Its distance to the outer
shock is higher than expected for expansion in a uniform media, what suggests
that the remnant spent most of its time in a more dense medium.