Taking into account the results obtained from the models and analyses of the
BVRI light curves, we discuss the nature of V1464 Aql. The analyses indicated
that the mass ratio of the system is q=0.71(0.02), while the inclination of the
system (i) is 38.45(0.22) deg. Taking the primary component's temperature as
7420(192) K, we found that the temperature of the secondary is 6232(161) K. The
mass of the primary component was found to be 1.74(0.05) Msun, while it is
1.23(0.01) Msun for the secondary. The primary component's radius was found to
be 2.10(0.05) Rsun, while it was found as 1.80(0.01) Rsun for the secondary.
Revealing that the system should not exhibit any eclipses, we demonstrated that
the main variation with large amplitude should be caused due to the ellipsoidal
effect. Indeed, the Fourier analysis also supported the result. For the first
time in the literature, we revealed that the primary component is a delta Scuti
star. The period of pulsation was found to be 58.482(0.002), 58.482(0.001),
60.966(0.002), 60.964(0.003) minutes in BVRI bands, respectively. We plotted
V1464 Aql in the plane of log(Porb)-log(Ppulse). Using more than 160 binaries,
whose one or both components are pulsating, we derived a new linear fit in the
plane of log(Porb)-log(Ppulse) for each type binary. Using the linear fit of
each group, we obtained new calibrations between log(Porb) and log(Ppulse) for
different type pulsating stars. In addition, a calibration has been obtained
for the first time for the pulsating stars from the spectral types O and B.
V1464 Aql seems to be located near the other ellipsoidal and close binaries.
Thus, we listed V1464 Aql as a new candidate for the ellipsoidal variables with
a delta Scuti component.