We present molecular line, H2O maser, radio continuum and near infrared maps
of the bipolar outflow source AFGL5142. The high resolution of our molecular CO
observations enables us to define the morphology of the large-scale bipolar
outflow into a two lobe structure extending for 2' on each side of the center.
In the perpendicular direction, we find consistent evidence for a second, more
compact (<0.5') outflow in the form of a spatial velocity offset in the CO map
and of an H2 jet-like structure derived from a near infrared narrow band image.
On a smaller scale size, the radio and infrared continuum observations reveal
the engines of the molecular outflows. The maser emission occurs near the
position of the most embedded source of the cluster, IRS1. This is located at
the center of the compact outflow and jets of shocked H2 and coincides with an
ultra compact radio continuum source (most probably an ionized stellar wind).
The H2O cluster is composed of five spatial components: two are within 0.3''
from the YSO (a few hundred AU) and three are at larger distance (1.5--2'', a
few thousand AU). A marginal detection of proper motion of the two more distant
masers may suggest a high expansion velocity at a distance 4000 AU from the
YSO, similar to what is found in Orion KL and W49N. The brightest NIR source of
the cluster (IRS2) is associated with an IRAS point source and lies along the
axis of the large-scale bipolar outflow. We propose that the masers and the
compact molecular outflow are powered concurrently by the wind from the YSO
associated with IRS1, while the large-scale outflow could be the remnant from
the formation of IRS2.