Electromagnetic frequencies up to a few terahertz (THz) can yield real-time
and noninvasive measurements on biological matter. Unfortunately, strong
absorption in aqueous solutions and low spatial resolution return difficult
free-space investigations. A new approach based on integrated THz circuits was
used. The contributors designed and fabricated a BioMEMS (Biological
MicroElectro-Mechanical System) compatible with microfluidic circulation and
electromagnetic propagation. It is dedicated to the ex vivo detection of nitric
oxide synthase (NOS) activity, which is involved in neurodegenerative
phenomena. MATERIAL/METHODS: The biological model was a leech's central nervous
system. After its injury, the production of NO was observed and measured in the
far-THz spectral domain. The nerve cord was put inside a BioMEMS realized in
polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) sealed on a glass wafer. Glass is a good material
for supporting high-frequency integrated waveguides such as coplanar waveguides
(CPWs). Measurements were performed with vectorial network analyser (VNA).
RESULTS: The transmission parameter in the frequency range of 0.14-0.22 THz was
measured through CPWs located just below the microchannel containing the
injured leech nerve cord. The lesion caused a decreased transmission
coefficient due to the NOS activity. L-NAME was injected inside the
microchannel and it was verified that it inhibits this activity. CONCLUSIONS:
It was demonstrated that THz spectroscopy can detect a biochemical event, such
as NOS activity around an injured leech's nerve cord, in real time. Future
studies will be dedicated to quantitative measurements of the reaction products
using the sophisticated management of several drugs allowed with microfluidic
microsystems.