The chemically peculiar (CP) stars HD 98851 and HD 102480 have been
discovered to be unusual pulsators during the ``Naini Tal Cape Survey''
programme to search for pulsational variability in CP stars. Time series
photometric and spectroscopic observations of these newly discovered stars are
reported here. Fourier analyses of the time series photometry reveal that HD
98851 is pulsating mainly with frequencies 0.208 mHz and 0.103 mHz, and HD
102480 is pulsating with frequencies 0.107 mHz, 0.156 mHz and 0.198 mHz. The
frequency identifications are all subject to 1 d$^{-1}$ cycle count
ambiguities. We have matched the observed low resolution spectra of HD 98851
and HD 102480 in the range 3500-7400 \AA with theoretical synthetic spectra
using Kurucz models with solar metallicity and a micro-turbulent velocity 2 km
s$^{-1}$. These yield $T_{eff}=7000\pm250$ K, log $g=3.5 \pm 0.5$ for HD 98851
and $T_{eff} = 6750 \pm 250$ K, log $g = 3.0 \pm 0.5$ for HD 102480. We
determined the equivalent H-line spectral class of these stars to be F1 IV and
F3 III/IV, respectively. A comparison of the location of HD 98851 and HD 102480
in the HR diagram with theoretical stellar evolutionary tracks indicates that
both stars are about 1-Gyr-old, 2-$M_{\odot}$ stars that lie towards the red
edge of the $\delta$ Sct instability strip. We conclude that HD 98851 and HD
102480 are cool, evolved Am pulsators. The light curves of these pulsating
stars have alternating high and low amplitudes, nearly harmonic (or
sub-harmonic) period ratios, high pulsational overtones and Am spectral types.
This is unusual for both Am and $\delta$ Sct pulsators, making these stars
interesting objects.