Continuous periodogram power spectral analyses of fractal fluctuations of
frequency distributions of bases A, C, G, T in Drosophila DNA show that the
power spectra follow the universal inverse power-law form of the statistical
normal distribution. Inverse power-law form for power spectra of space-time
fluctuations is generic to dynamical systems in nature and is identified as
self-organized criticality. The contributor has developed a general systems theory,
which provides universal quantification for observed self-organized criticality
in terms of the statistical normal distribution. The long-range correlations
intrinsic to self-organized criticality in macro-scale dynamical systems are a
signature of quantumlike chaos. The fractal fluctuations self-organize to form
an overall logarithmic spiral trajectory with the quasiperiodic Penrose tiling
pattern for the internal structure. Power spectral analysis resolves such a
spiral trajectory as an eddy continuum with embedded dominant wavebands. The
dominant peak periodicities are functions of the golden mean. The observed
fractal frequency distributions of the Drosophila DNA base sequences exhibit
quasicrystalline structure with long-range spatial correlations or
self-organized criticality. Modification of the DNA base sequence structure at
any location may have significant noticeable effects on the function of the DNA
molecule as a whole. The presence of non-coding introns may not be redundant,
but serve to organize the effective functioning of the coding exons in the DNA
molecule as a complete unit.