We present a Chandra ACIS study of the early-type galaxy NGC 4552. We detect
47 X-ray point sources, most of which are likely LMXBs, within 4 R_e. The
brightest X-ray source coincides with the optical/UV/radio center of the
galaxy, and shows variability on >1 hr timescales, indicating the possible
existence of a LLAGN. The 46 off-center sources and the unresolved point
sources contribute about 29% and 20% to the total luminosity of the galaxy,
respectively. The corrected cumulative XLF of the off-center sources is best
fit by a broken power-law model with a break at L_b=4.4+2.0-1.4 e38 ergs/s. We
identified 210 GCs candidates in a HST WFPC2 optical image of the galaxy's
central region. Of the 25 off-center LMXBs that fall within the WFPC2 FOV, 10
sources are coincident with a GC. Thus the fraction of the GCs hosting bright
LMXBs and the fraction of the LMXBs associated with GCs are 4.8% and 40%,
respectively. In the V and I bands, the GCs hosting bright LMXBs are typically
1-2 magnitudes brighter than the GCs with no detected LMXBs. There are about
1.9+-0.4 times as many LMXBs in the red, metal-rich GCs as there are in the
blue, metal-poor ones. We find no obvious difference between the luminosity
distributions of LMXBs in GCs and in field, but the cumulative spectrum of the
LMXBs in GCs tends to be softer than that of the LMXBs in field. We detected 3
X-ray sources that have isotropic luminosities larger than 1e39 erg/s. The one
located in the joint Chandra-HST field is found to be associated with a GC. By
studying the ACIS spectra we infer that the this may be a candidate black hole
system with a mass of 15-135 M_sun. One of the other sources with a luminosity
brighter than 1e39 ergs/s reveals temporal variations in brightness on
timescales greater than an hour.