Aims: G15.4+0.1 is a faint supernova remnant (SNR) that has recently been
associated with the gamma-ray source HESS J1818-154. We investigate a hadronic
scenario for the production of the gamma-ray emission. Methods: Molecular 13CO
(J=1-0) taken from the Galactic Ring Survey (GRS) and neutral hydrogen (HI)
data from the Southern Galactic Plane Survey (SGPS) have been used in
combination with new 1420 MHz radio continuum observations carried out with the
Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT). Results: From the new observations and
analysis of archival data we provided for the first time a reliable estimate
for the distance to the SNR G15.4+0.1 and discovered molecular clouds located
at the same distance. On the basis of HI absorption features, we estimate the
distance to G15.4+0.1 in 4.8+/-1.0 kpc. The 13CO observations clearly show a
molecular cloud about 5 arcmin in size with two bright clumps, labeled A and B,
clump A positionally associated with the location of HESS J1818-154 and clump B
in coincidence with the brightest northern border of the radio SNR shell. The
HI absorption and the 13CO emission study indicates a possible interaction
between the molecular material and the remnant. We estimate the masses and
densities of the molecular gas as (1.2+/-0.5)X10^3 M_sun and (1.5+/-0.4)X10^3
cm^-3 for clump A and (3.0+/-0.7)X10^3 M_sun and (1.1+/-0.3)X10^3 cm^-3 for
clump B. Calculations show that the average density of the molecular clump A is
sufficient to produce the detected gamma-ray flux, thus favoring a hadronic
origin for the high-energy emission.