Deep imaging data from the Keck II telescope are employed to study the
globular cluster (GC) populations in the cores of six rich Abell clusters. The
sample includes A754, A1644, A2124, A2147, A2151, and A2152, and spans the
redshift range z = 0.035-0.066. The clusters also range in morphology from
spiral-rich, irregular systems to centrally concentrated cD clusters rich in
early-type galaxies. Globular cluster specific frequencies S_N and luminosity
function dispersions are measured for a total of 9 galaxies in six central
fields. The measured values of S_N for the six brightest cluster galaxies
(BCGs) are all higher than typical values for giant ellipticals, in accord with
the known S_N-density correlations. The three non-BCGs analyzed also have
elevated values of S_N, confirming that central location is a primary factor.
The number of GCs per unit mass for these fields are consistent with those
found in an earlier sample, giving further evidence that GC number scales with
mass and that the S_N variations are due to a deficit of halo light, i.e., S_N
reflects mass-to-light ratio.
  The discussion builds on an earlier suggestion that the GCs (both metal rich
and metal poor) around the central cluster galaxies were assembled at early
times, and that star formation halted prematurely in the central galaxies at
the epoch of cluster collapse. This is consistent with recent simulations of
BCG/cluster formation. The subsequent addition of luminous material through
cluster dynamical evolution can cause S_N to decrease, and we may be seeing the
first evidence of this. Finally, the GC luminosity function measurements are
used to constrain the relative distances of the three clusters that make up the
Hercules supercluster.