Recent LHC data, together with the electroweak naturalness argument, suggest
that the top squarks may be significantly lighter than the other sfermions. We
present supersymmetric models in which such a split spectrum is obtained
through "geometries": being "close to" electroweak symmetry breaking implies
being "away from" supersymmetry breaking, and vice versa. In particular, we
present models in 5D warped spacetime, in which supersymmetry breaking and
Higgs fields are located on the ultraviolet and infrared branes, respectively,
and the top multiplets are localized to the infrared brane. The hierarchy of
the Yukawa matrices can be obtained while keeping near flavor degeneracy
between the first two generation sfermions, avoiding stringent constraints from
flavor and CP violation. Through the AdS/CFT correspondence, the models can be
interpreted as purely 4D theories in which the top and Higgs multiplets are
composites of some strongly interacting sector exhibiting nontrivial dynamics
at a low energy. Because of the compositeness of the Higgs and top multiplets,
Landau pole constraints for the Higgs and top couplings apply only up to the
dynamical scale, allowing for a relatively heavy Higgs boson, including m_h =
125 GeV as suggested by the recent LHC data. We analyze electroweak symmetry
breaking for a well-motivated subset of these models, and find that fine-tuning
in electroweak symmetry breaking is indeed ameliorated. We also discuss a flat
space realization of the scenario in which supersymmetry is broken by boundary
conditions, with the top multiplets localized to a brane while other matter
multiplets delocalized in the bulk.