In this paper, I have attempted to highlight key results from deep
extragalactic surveys at mid-infrared wavelengths. I discuss advances in our
understanding of dust enshrouded star-formation and AGN activity at 0<z<3 from
IRAS, ISO and Spitzer. The data seem to indicate that about 70% of the
co-moving star-formation rate density at 0.5<z<3 is obscured by dust and that
AGN, including obscured sources, account for <20% of the co-moving bolometric
luminosity density. There is tentative evidence that the mode of star-formation
changes as a function of redshift; star-formation at z~2 is preferentially in
massive, ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) while z~1 sources are
luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs) which are about 1 mag fainter than ULIRGs in
the near-infrared. This evolution of the star-formation mode, is similar to the
evolution of the redshift distribution of X-ray sources as a function of X-ray
luminosity and would suggest an extension of the downsizing hypothesis to
include both AGN and star-forming galaxies. Measuring dust-enshrouded
star-formation at z>3 will become possible only with future facilities like
ALMA. Currently, the presence of dust can only be assessed in a small fraction
of the youngest starbursts at z>5 by looking for redshifted large equivalent
width H_alpha emission in broadband filters like the IRAC 4.5 micron passband.
H_alpha to UV ratios in these objects are a tracer of dust extinction and
measuring this ratio in GOODS galaxies indicate dust in ~20% of star-forming
galaxies at z>5. Finally, implications for reionization based on the measured
stellar mass density and star-formation rates of galaxies at these redshifts
are discussed.