The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) observatory will be one of the largest
ground-based very high-energy gamma-ray observatories. The On-Site Analysis
will be the first CTA scientific analysis of data acquired from the array of
telescopes, in both northern and southern sites. The On-Site Analysis will have
two pipelines: the Level-A pipeline (also known as Real-Time Analysis, RTA) and
the level-B one. The RTA performs data quality monitoring and must be able to
issue automated alerts on variable and transient astrophysical sources within
30 seconds from the last acquired Cherenkov event that contributes to the
alert, with a sensitivity not worse than the one achieved by the final pipeline
by more than a factor of 3. The Level-B Analysis has a better sensitivity (not
be worse than the final one by a factor of 2) and the results should be
available within 10 hours from the acquisition of the data: for this reason
this analysis could be performed at the end of an observation or next morning.
The latency (in particular for the RTA) and the sensitivity requirements are
challenging because of the large data rate, a few GByte/s. The remote
connection to the CTA candidate site with a rather limited network bandwidth
makes the issue of the exported data size extremely critical and prevents any
kind of processing in real-time of the data outside the site of the telescopes.
For these reasons the analysis will be performed on-site with infrastructures
co-located with the telescopes, with limited electrical power availability and
with a reduced possibility of human intervention. This means, for example, that
the on-site hardware infrastructure should have low-power consumption. A
substantial effort towards the optimization of high-throughput computing
service is envisioned to provide hardware and software solutions with
high-throughput, low-power consumption at a low-cost.