Using an absorption line from the metastable (J, K) = (3, 3) level of H3+
together with other lines of H3+ and CO observed along several sightlines, we
have discovered a vast amount of high temperature (T ~ 250 K) and low density
(n ~ 100 cm-3) gas with a large velocity dispersion in the Central Molecular
Zone (CMZ) of the Galaxy, i.e., within 200 pc of the center. Approximately
three fourths of the H3+ along the line of sight to the brightest source we
observed, the Quintuplet object GCS 3-2, is inferred to be in the CMZ, with the
remaining H3+ located in intervening spiral arms. About half of H3+ in the CMZ
has velocities near ~ - 100 km s-1 indicating that it is associated with the
180 pc radius Expanding Molecular Ring which approximately forms outer boundary
of the CMZ. The other half, with velocities of ~ - 50 km s-1 and ~ 0 km s-1, is
probably closer to the center. CO is not very abundant in those clouds. Hot and
diffuse gas in which the (3, 3) level is populated was not detected toward
several dense clouds and diffuse clouds in the Galactic disk where large column
densities of colder H3+ have been reported previously. Thus the newly
discovered environment appears to be unique to the CMZ. The large observed H3+
column densities in the CMZ suggests an ionization rate much higher than in the
diffuse interstellar medium in the Galactic disk. Our finding that the H3+ in
the CMZ is almost entirely in diffuse clouds indicates that the reported volume
filling factor (f &#8805; 0.1) for n &#8805; 104 cm-3 clouds in the CMZ is an
overestimate by at least an order of magnitude.