We have obtained deep optical spectrophotometry of 16 planetary nebulae in
M33, mostly located in the central two kpc of the galaxy, with the Subaru and
Keck telescopes. We have derived electron temperatures and chemical abundances
from the detection of the [OIII]4363 line for the whole sample. We have found
one object with an extreme nitrogen abundance, 12+log(N/H)=9.20, accompanied by
a large helium content. After combining our data with those available in the
literature for PNe and HII regions, we have examined the behavior of nitrogen,
neon, oxygen and argon in relation to each other, and as a function of
galactocentric distance. We confirm the good correlation between Ne/H and O/H
for PNe in M33. Ar/H is also found to correlate with O/H. This strengthens the
idea that at the metallicity of the bright PNe analyzed in M33, which is
similar to that found in the LMC, these elements have not been significantly
modified during the dredge-up processes that take place during the AGB phase of
their progenitor stars. We find no significant oxygen abundance offset between
PNe and HII regions at any given galactocentric distance, despite the fact that
these objects represent different age groups in the evolution of the galaxy.
Combining the results from PNe and HII regions, we obtain a representative
slope of the ISM alpha-element (O, Ar, Ne) abundance gradient in M33 of -0.025
+/- 0.006 dex/kpc. Both PNe and HII regions display a large abundance
dispersion at any given distance from the galactic center. We find that the N/O
ratio in PNe is enhanced, relative to the HII regions, by approximately 0.8
dex.