We present HST photometry for three fields in the outer disk of the LMC
extending approximately four magnitudes below the faintest main sequence
turnoff. We cannot detect any strongly significant differences in the stellar
populations of the three fields based on the morphologies of the
color-magnitude diagrams, the luminosity functions, and the relative numbers of
stars in different evolutionary stages. Our observations therefore suggest
similar star formation histories in these regions, although some variations are
certainly allowed. The fields are located in two regions of the LMC: one is in
the north-east field and two are located in the north-west. Under the
assumption of a common star formation history, we combine the three fields with
ground-based data at the same location as one of the fields to improve
statistics for the brightest stars. We compare this stellar population with
those predicted from several simple star formation histories suggested in the
literature, using a combination of the R-method of Bertelli et al (1992) and
comparisons with the observed luminosity function. The only model which we
consider that is not rejected by the observations is one in which the star
formation rate is roughly constant for most of the LMC's history and then
increases by a factor of three about 2 Gyr ago. Such a model has roughly equal
numbers of stars older and younger than 4 Gyr, and thus is not dominated by
young stars. This star formation history, combined with a closed box chemical
evolution model, is consistent with observations that the metallicity of the
LMC has doubled in the past 2 Gyr.