Variable individual response to epidemics may be found within many contexts
in the study of infectious diseases (e.g., age structure or contact networks).
There are situations where the variability, in terms of epidemiological
parameter, cannot be neatly packaged along with other demographics of the
population like spatial location or life stage. Transport equations are a novel
method for handling this variability via a distributed parameter; where
particular parameter values are possessed by various proportions of the
population. Several contributors (e.g., Kareva, Novozhilov, and Katriel) have
studied such systems in a closed population setting (no births/immigrations or
deaths/emigrations), but have cited restrictions to employing such methods when
entry and removal of individuals is added to the population. This paper
details, in the context of a simple susceptible-infectious-recovered (SIR)
epidemic, how the method works in the closed population setting and gives
conditions for initial, transient, and asymptotic results to be equivalent with
the nondistributed case. Additionally, I show how the method may be applied to
various forms of open SIR systems. Transport equations are used to transform an
infinite dimensional system for the open population case into a finite
dimensional system which is, at the very least, able to be numerically studied,
a model with direct inheritance of the distributed parameter is shown to be
qualitatively identical to the nondistributed case, and finally a model where
disease results in sterilization is fully analyzed.