The second IBIS/ISGRI survey has produced a catalogue containing 209 hard
X-ray sources visible down to a flux limit of around 1 milliCrab. The point
source location accuracy of typically 1-3 arcminutes has allowed the
counterparts for most of these sources to be found at other wavelengths. In
order to help identify the remaining objects, we have used the
cross-correlation recently found between the ISGRI catalogue and the ROSAT All
Sky Survey Bright Source Catalogue. In this way, for ISGRI sources which have a
counterpart in soft X-rays, we can use the much smaller ROSAT error box to
search for identifications. For this second survey, we find 114 associations
with the number expected by chance to be ~2. Of these sources, 8 are in the
list of unidentified objects and, using the smaller ROSAT error boxes, we can
find tentative counterparts for five of them. We have performed the same
analysis for the ROSAT Faint Source Catalogue, finding a further nine
associations with ISGRI unidentified sources from a total of 29 correlations,
and, notwithstanding the poorer location accuracy of these sources and higher
chance coincidence possibility, we have managed to find a counterpart for
another source. Finally, we have used the ROSAT HRI catalogue to search the
ISGRI error boxes and find 5 more X-ray objects, of which two are neither in
the bright or faint source catalogues, and for which we have managed to find
optical/near infrared associations. This makes a total of 19 objects with X-ray
counterparts for which we have found possible identifications for nine, most of
which are extragalactic.