We investigate the conditions of star formation in the Large Magellanic
Cloud. We have conducted a survey for water maser emission arising from massive
young stellar objects in the 30 Doradus region (N 157) and several other H II
regions in the Large Magellanic Cloud (N 105A, N 113 and N 160A). We have
identified a new maser source in 30 Dor at the systemic velocity of the LMC. We
have obtained 3-4 micron spectra, with the ESO Very Large Telescope, of two
candidate young stellar objects. N 105A IRS1 shows H recombination line
emission and its Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) and mid-infrared colours
are consistent with a massive young star ionising the molecular cloud. N 157B
IRS1 is identified as an embedded young object, based on its SED and a
tentative detection of water ice. The data on these four H II regions are
combined with mid-infrared archival images from the Spitzer Space Telescope to
study the location and nature of the embedded massive young stellar objects and
signatures of stellar feedback. Our analysis of 30 Dor, N 113 and N 160A
confirms the picture that the feedback from the massive O and B-type stars,
which creates the H II regions, also triggers further star formation on the
interfaces of the ionised gas and the surrounding molecular cloud. Although in
the dense cloud N 105A star formation seems to occur without evidence of
massive star feedback, the general conditions in the LMC seem favourable for
sequential star formation as a result of feedback. In an appendix we present
water maser observations of the galactic red giants R Doradus and W Hydrae.