B514 is a remote M31 globular cluster which locating at a projected distance
of R_p~55 kpc. Deep observations with the Advanced Camera for Surveys (ACS) on
the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) are used to provide the accurate integrated
light and star counts of B514. By coupling analysis of the distribution of the
integrated light with star counts, we are able to reliably follow the profile
of the cluster out to ~40". Based on the combined profile, we study in detail
its surface brightness distribution in F606W and F814W filters, and determine
its structural parameters by fitting a single-mass isotropic King model. The
results showed that, the surface brightness distribution departs from the
best-fit King model for r>10". B514 is quite flatted in the inner region, and
has a larger half-light radius than majority of normal globular clusters of the
same luminosity. It is interesting that, in the M_V versus log R_h plane, B514
lies nearly on the threshold for ordinary globular clusters as defined by
Mackey & van den Bergh. In addition, B514 was observed as part of the
Beijing-Arizona-Taiwan-Connecticut (BATC) Multicolor Sky Survey, using 13
intermediate-band filters covering a wavelength range of 3000--8500 \AA. Based
on aperture photometry, we obtain its SEDs as defined by the 13 BATC filters.
We determine the cluster's age and mass by comparing its SEDs (from 2267 to
20000{\AA}, comprising photometric data in the near-ultraviolet of GALEX, 5
SDSS bands, 13 BATC intermediate-band, and 2MASS near-infrared JHKs} filters)
with theoretical stellar population synthesis models, resulting in age of
$11.5\pm3.5$ Gyr. This age confirms the previous suggestion that B514 is an old
GC in M31. B514 has a mass of $0.96-1.08 \times 10^6 \rm M_sun$, and is a
medium-mass globular cluster in M31.