We report the results of three-dimensional smoothed particle hydrodynamics
simulations of interactions of overdense, radiatively cooling and adiabatic
jets with dense, compact clouds in frontal and off-axis collisions. Calculated
for a set of parameters which are particularly appropriate to protostellar
jets, our results indicate that the interaction produces important transient
and permanent effects in the jet morphology. During the interaction, a weak
chain of internal knots develops along the deflected beam and the velocity
field initially has a complex structure that later evolves to a more uniform
distribution. The impact also decreases the beam collimation. This morphology
and kinematics is very similar to that observed in systems like the HH110 jet
which has been previously proposed to be the deflected part of the HH270 jet.
Our simulations also reveal the formation of a head-neck structure at the
region of impact which resembles the HH 110 knot A located where the deflectio
n is believed to occur. Although very transient, the interactions examined here
leave important signatures. The left-overs of the cloud and the knots that are
produced in the deflected beam are deposited into the working surface and
contribute to enrich the knotty pattern commonly observed in HH objects. Also,
the collision may partially destroy the shell at the head producing remarkable
asymmetries. A jet undergoing many transient interactions with compact clumps
along its propagation and life- time may inject a considerable amount of
shocked jet material sideways into the surrounding ambient medium and this may
provide a powerful process for momentum transfer and turbulent mixing with the
ambient medium (short abs.).