Experiments that study the hadronic and electromagnetic production of the
pseudoscalar mesons -- pions, etas and kaons, contribute to our knowledge of
the properties of baryon and hyperon resonances. Fixed-target programs at
hadronic facilities such as BNL-AGS have been phased out. However, the
availability of modern experimental facilities with pseudo-monochromatic or
tagged medium-energy photon beams at GRAAL, SPring-8, Bonn, Mainz, and
Jefferson Lab, together with LEGS, Max-Lab, and HIGS at lower energies, are
beginning to produce high-quality results. These new data have smaller
statistical uncertainties and better understood systematic uncertainties, than
those obtained at the older bremsstrahlung facilities, for measurements of
differential and integrated cross sections, as well as polarization and
asymmetry. Experimental results are compared with the predictions of QCD-based
approaches, such as the lattice-gauge calculations of baryon properties, and
Chiral Perturbation Theory applied to threshold photoproduction, and are
essential to the performance of Partial-Wave Analyses (PWA). These PWA studies
are less model dependent than in the past, and are used in coupled-channels
calculations that incorporate unitarity dynamically, and combine results from
hadronic reaction channels with electromagnetic processes. This approach is
necessary to extract resonance properties and may lead to the discovery of the
"missing resonances" predicted by a number of different QCD-inspired
calculations. We discuss recent experimental and phenomenological results for
single and double pseudoscalar meson hadronic and photoproduction channels with
emphasis on the JLab Hall B and the BNL/AGS Crystal Ball programs.