The Teff location of Pre-Main Sequence (PMS) evolutionary tracks depends on
the treatment of over-adiabaticity. Since the convection penetrates into the
stellar atmosphere, also the treatment of convection in the modeling of stellar
atmospheres will affect the location of the Hayashi tracks. We present new
non-grey PMS tracks for Teff>4000 K. We compute several grids of evolutionary
tracks varying: 1. the treatment of convection: either the Mixing Length Theory
(MLT) or Canuto et al. (1996, CGM) treatment; 2.the atmospheric boundary
conditions: we use the new Vienna grids of ATLAS9 atmospheres (Heiter et al.
2002a), which were computed using either MLT (with alpha=Lambda/Hp=0.5) or CGM
treatments. We compute as well grids of models with the NextGen (Allard &
Hauschildt 1997) atmosphere models, and a 1 Msun grey MLT evolutionary track
using the alpha calibration based on 2D-hydrodynamical models (Ludwig et al.
1999)}. These different grids of models allow us to analyze the effects of
convection modeling on the non--grey PMS evolutionary tracks. We conclude that:
1. In spite of the solar calibration, if MLT convection is adopted a large
uncertainty results in the shape and location of PMS tracks. 2. As long as the
model of convection is not the same in the interior and in the atmosphere the
optical depth at which we take the boundary conditions is an additional
parameter of the models. 3. The comparison between NextGen and ATLAS9 based
models shows that, in the Teff domain they have in common (4000--10000K), the
PMS location is mainly determined by the treatment of the over-adiabatic
convection. 4. Comparison with observations indicates that, for any convection
model and for any of the atmosphere grids, convection in the PMS phase appears
to be less efficient than what is necessary in order to fit the Sun.