While continuum imaging data at far-infrared to sub-millimeter wavelengths
have provided tight constraints on the population properties of dusty star
forming galaxies up to high redshifts, future space missions like the Space
Infra-Red Telescope for Cosmology and Astrophysics (SPICA) and ground based
facilities like the Cerro Chajnantor Atacama Telescope (CCAT) will allow
detailed investigations of their physical properties via their
mid-/far-infrared line emission. We present updated predictions for the number
counts and the redshift distributions of star forming galaxies
spectroscopically detectable by these future missions. These predictions
exploit a recent upgrade of evolutionary models, that include the effect of
strong gravitational lensing, in the light of the most recent Herschel and
South Pole Telescope data. Moreover the relations between line and continuum
infrared luminosity are re-assessed, considering also differences among source
populations, with the support of extensive simulations that take into account
dust obscuration. The derived line luminosity functions are found to be highly
sensitive to the spread of the line to continuum luminosity ratios. Estimates
of the expected numbers of detections per spectral line by SPICA/SAFARI and by
CCAT surveys for different integration times per field of view at fixed total
observing time are presented. Comparing with the earlier estimates by Spinoglio
et al. (2012) we find, in the case of SPICA/SAFARI, differences within a factor
of two in most cases, but occasionally much larger. More substantial
differences are found for CCAT.