We analyze the vector meson formulation of the BPS Skyrme model in (3+1)
dimensions, where the term of sixth power in first derivatives characteristic
for the original, integrable BPS Skyrme model (the topological or baryon
current squared) is replaced by a coupling between the vector meson
$\omega_\mu$ and the baryon current. We find that the model remains integrable
in the sense of generalized integrability and almost solvable (reducible to a
set of two first order ODEs) for any value of the baryon charge. Further, we
analyze the appearance of topological solitons for two one-parameter families
of one vacuum potentials: the old Skyrme potentials and the so-called BPS
potentials. Depending on the value of the parameters we find several
qualitatively different possibilities. In the massless case we have a parameter
region with no skyrmions, a unique compact skyrmion with a discontinuous first
derivative at the boundary (equivalently, with a source term located at the
boundary, which screens the topological charge), and Coulomb-like localized
solitons. For the massive vector meson, besides the no-skyrmion region and a
unique C-compact soliton, we find exponentially as well as power-like localized
skyrmions. Further, we find (for a specific potential) BPS solutions, i.e.,
skyrmions saturating a Bogomolny bound (both for the massless and massive
vector mesons) which are unstable for higher values of the baryon charge. The
properties of the model are finally compared with its baby version in (2+1)
dimensions, and with the original BPS Skyrme model, contributing to a better
understanding of the latter.