[Abridged] We examine a sample of 45 Mg II absorption-selected systems over
the redshift range 0.4 to 1.4. Mg II and Fe II absorption profiles were
observed at a resolution of ~6 km/s with HIRES/Keck. Lyman-alpha and C IV data
were measured in archival FOS/HST spectra (~230 km/s). We perform a
multivariate analysis of W(MgII), W(FeII), W(CIV) and W(Lya) (rest-frame)
equivalent widths and the Mg II kinematic spread. We find five categories of Mg
II absorbers: "Classic", "C IV-deficient", "Single/Weak", "Double", and
"DLA/HI-Rich". There is a strong connection between low-ionization kinematics
and the location of an absorber on the W(CIV)-W(MgII) plane. In most absorbers
a significant fraction of the C IV arises in a phase separate from Mg II. Many
of the C IV profiles are resolved in the FOS spectra due to velocity
structure.. For 16 galaxies, we compare the available absorption-line
properties (taken from Churchill et al. 2000, Paper I) to the galaxy properties
but find no significant (greater than 3-sigma) correlations, although several
suggestive trends are apparent. We compare the locations of our intermediate
redshift absorbers on the W(CIV)-W(MgII) plane with those of lower and higher
redshift data taken from the literature and find evidence for evolution that is
connected with the Mg II kinematics. We discuss the potential of using the
above categorizations of absorbers to understand the evolution in the
underlying physical processes giving rise to the gas and governing its
ionization phases and kinematics.