"Big Data is the oil of the new economy" is the most famous citation during
the three last years. It has even been adopted by the World Economic Forum in
2011. In fact, Big Data is like crude! It's valuable, but if unrefined it
cannot be used. It must be broken down, analyzed for it to have value. But what
about Big Data generated by the Petroleum Industry and particularly its
upstream segment?
  Upstream is no stranger to Big Data. Understanding and leveraging data in the
upstream segment enables firms to remain competitive throughout planning,
exploration, delineation, and field development. Oil & Gas Companies conduct
advanced geophysics modeling and simulation to support operations where 2D, 3D
& 4D Seismic generate significant data during exploration phases. They closely
monitor the performance of their operational assets. To do this, they use
thousands sensors in subsurface wells and surface facilities to provide
continuous and real-time monitoring of assets and environmental conditions.
Unfortunately, this information comes in various and increasingly complex
forms, making it a challenge to collect, interpret, and leverage the disparate
data.
  Big Data technologies integrate common and disparate data sets to deliver the
right information at the appropriate time to the correct decision-maker. These
capabilities help firms act on large volumes of data, transforming
decision-making from reactive to proactive and optimizing all phases of
exploration, development and production. Furthermore, Big Data offers multiple
opportunities to ensure safer, more responsible operations. Another invaluable
effect of that would be shared learning.
  The aim of this paper is to explain how to use Big Data technologies to
optimize operations. How can Big Data help experts to decision-making leading
the desired outcomes?