We investigate the dependence of star formation and the distribution of the
components of galaxies on the strength of ram pressure. Several mock
observations in X-ray, H$\alpha$ and HI wavelength for different ram-pressure
scenarios are presented. By applying a combined N-body/hydrodynamic description
(GADGET-2) with radiative cooling and a recipe for star formation and stellar
feedback 12 different ram-pressure stripping scenarios for disc galaxies were
calculated. Special emphasis was put on the gas within the disc and in the
surroundings. All gas particles within the computational domain having the same
mass resolution. The relative velocity was varied from 100 km/s to 1000 km/s in
different surrounding gas densities in the range from $1\times10^{-28}$ to
$5\times10^{-27}$ g/cm$^3$. The temperature of the surrounding gas was
initially $1\times10^{7}$ K. The star formation of a galaxy is enhanced by more
than a magnitude in the simulation with a high ram-pressure ($5\times10^{-11}$
dyn/cm$^2$) in comparison to the same system evolving in isolation. The
enhancement of the star formation depends more on the surrounding gas density
than on the relative velocity. Up to 95% of all newly formed stars can be found
in the wake of the galaxy out to distances of more than 350 kpc behind the
stellar disc. Continuously stars fall back to the old stellar disc, building up
a bulge-like structure. Young stars can be found throughout the stripped wake
with surface densities locally comparable to values in the inner stellar disc.
Ram-pressure stripping can shift the location of star formation from the disc
into the wake on very short timescales. (Abridged)