Only a few binary systems with compact objects display TeV emission. The
physical properties of the companion stars represent basic input to understand
the physical mechanisms behind the particle acceleration, emission, and
absorption processes in these so-called gamma-ray binaries. Here we present
high-resolution and high signal-to-noise optical spectra of LS2883, the Be star
forming a gamma-ray binary with the young non-accreting pulsar PSR B1259-63,
showing it to rotate faster and be significantly earlier and more luminous than
previously thought. Analysis of the interstellar lines suggest that the system
is located at the same distance as (and thus is likely a member of) CenOB1.
Taking the distance to the association, d=2.3kpc, and a color excess of
E(B-V)=0.85 for LS2883, results in Mv=-4.4. Because of fast rotation, LS2883 is
oblate (R_eq=9.7R_sun and R_pole=8.1R_sun) and presents a temperature gradient
(T_eq=27500K, log g_eq=3.7; T_pole=34000K, log g_pole=4.1). If the star did not
rotate, it would have parameters corresponding to a late O-type star. We
estimate its luminosity at log(L*/L_sun)=4.79, and its mass at M=30M_sun. The
mass function then implies an inclination of the binary system
i_orb=23deg,slightly smaller than previous estimates. We discuss the
implications of these new astrophysical parameters of LS2883 for the production
of high energy and very high energy gamma rays in the PSR B1259-63/LS2883
gamma-ray binary system. In particular, the stellar properties are very
important for prediction of the line-like bulk Comptonization component from
the unshocked ultra-relativistic pulsar wind.