Several circumbinary planets have been detected by the Kepler mission. Recent
work has emphasized the difficulty of forming these planets at their observed
locations. It has been suggested that these planets formed further out in their
discs and migrated in to locations where they are observed. We examine the
orbital evolution of planets embedded in circumbinary disc models for the three
systems Kepler-16, Kepler-34 and Kepler-35. The aims are: to explore the
plausibility of a formation scenario in which cores form at large distances
from the binaries and undergo inward migration and gas accretion as the gas
disc disperses; to determine which sets of disc parameters lead to planets
whose final orbits provide reasonable fits to the observed systems. We
performed simulations of a close binary system interacting with circumbinary
discs with differing aspect ratios, and viscous stress parameters. Once the
binary+disc system reaches quasi-equilibrium we embed a planet in the disc and
examine its evolution under the action of binary and disc forces. We consider
fully-formed planets with masses equal to those inferred from Kepler data, and
low-mass cores that migrate and accrete gas while the gas disc is being
dispersed. A typical outcome for all systems is stalling of inward migration as
the planet enters the inner cavity formed by the binary system. The
circumbinary disc becomes eccentric and the disc eccentricity forces the planet
into a noncircular orbit. For each of the Kepler-16b, Kepler-34b and Kepler-35b
systems we obtain planets whose parameters agree reasonably well with the
observational data. The simulations presented here provide support for a
formation scenario in which a core forms, migrates inward and accretes gas, but
accurate fitting of the observed Kepler systems is likely to require disc
models that are significantly more sophisticated in terms of their input
physics.