Photoacoustic imaging has proven to be able to detect vascularization-driven
optical absorption contrast associated with tumors. In order to detect breast
tumors located a few centimeter deep in tissue, a sensitive ultrasound detector
is of crucial importance for photoacoustic mammography. Further, because the
expected photoacoustic frequency bandwidth (a few MHz to tens of kHz) is
inversely proportional to the dimensions of light absorbing structures (0.5 to
10+ mm), proper choices of materials and their geometries, and proper
considerations in design have to be made for optimal photoacoustic detectors.
In this study, we design and evaluate a specialized ultrasound detector for
photoacoustic mammography. Based on the required detector sensitivity and its
frequency response, a selection of active material and matching layers and
their geometries is made leading to a functional detector models. By iteration
between simulation of detector performances, fabrication and experimental
characterization of functional models an optimized implementation is made and
evaluated. The experimental results of the designed first and second functional
detectors matched with the simulations. In subsequent bare piezoelectric
samples the effect of lateral resonances was addressed and their influence
minimized by sub-dicing the samples. Consequently, using simulations, the final
optimized detector could be designed, with a center frequency of 1 MHz and a -6
dB bandwidth of ~80%. The minimum detectable pressure was measured to be 0.5
Pa, which will facilitate deeper imaging compared to the currrent systems. The
detector should be capable of detecting vascularized tumors with resolution of
1-2 mm. Further improvements by proper electrical grounding and shielding and
implementation of this design into an arrayed detector will pave the way for
clinical applications of photoacoustic mammography.