Radiation recoil (YORP) torques are shown to be extremely sensitive to
small-scale surface topography. Starting from simulated objects representative
of the near-Earth object population, random realizations of three types of
small-scale topography are added: Gaussian surface fluctuations, craters, and
boulders. For each, the resulting expected relative errors in the spin and
obliquity components of the YORP torque are computed. Gaussian power produces
errors of order 100% if observations constrain the surface to a spherical
harmonic order l < 10. A single crater with diameter roughly half the object's
mean radius, placed at random locations, results in errors of several tens of
percent. Boulders create torque errors roughly 3 times larger than do craters
of the same diameter. A single boulder comparable to Yoshinodai on 25143
Itokawa, moved by as little as twice its own diameter, can alter the magnitude
of the torque by factors of several, and change the sign of its spin component
at all obliquities. A YORP torque prediction derived from groundbased data can
be expected to be in error by of order 100% due to unresolved topography. Small
surface changes caused by slow spin-up or spin-down may have significant
stochastic effects on the spin evolution of small bodies. For rotation periods
between roughly 2 and 10 hours, these unpredictable changes may reverse the
sign of the YORP torque. Objects in this spin regime may random-walk up and
down in spin rate before the rubble-pile limit is exceeded and fissioning or
loss of surface objects occurs. Similar behavior may be expected at rotation
rates approaching the limiting values for tensile-strength dominated objects.