We present detailed analysis of the two gamma-ray sources,1FGL J1801.3-2322c
and 1FGL J1800.5-2359c,that have been found toward the supernova remnant(SNR)
W28 with the Large Area Telescope(LAT) on board the Fermi Gamma-ray Space
Telescope.1FGL J1801.3-2322c is found to be an extended source within the
boundary of SNR W28,and to extensively overlap with the TeV gamma-ray source
HESS J1801-233,which is associated with a dense molecular cloud interacting
with the supernova remnant.The gamma-ray spectrum measured with LAT from
0.2--100 GeV can be described by a broken power-law function with a break of
~1GeV,and photon indices of 2.09$\pm$0.08(stat)$\pm$0.28(sys) below the break
and 2.74$\pm$0.06(stat)$\pm$0.09(sys) above the break.Given the clear
association between HESS J1801-233 and the shocked molecular cloud and a
smoothly connected spectrum in the GeV--TeV band,we consider the origin of the
gamma-ray emission in both GeV and TeV ranges to be the interaction between
particles accelerated in the SNR and the molecular cloud.The decay of neutral
pions produced in interactions between accelerated hadrons and dense molecular
gas provide a reasonable explanation for the broadband gamma-ray spectrum. 1FGL
J1800.5-2359c, located outside the southern boundary of SNR W28, cannot be
resolved.An upper limit on the size of the gamma-ray emission was estimated to
be ~16$'$ using events above ~2GeV under the assumption of a circular shape
with uniform surface brightness. It appears to coincide with the TeV source
HESS J1800-240B,which is considered to be associated with a dense molecular
cloud that contains the ultra compact HII region W28A2(G5.89-0.39).We found no
significant gamma-ray emission in the LAT energy band at the positions of TeV
sources HESS J1800-230A and HESS J1800-230C.The LAT data for HESS J1800-230A
combined with the TeV data points indicate a spectral break between 10GeV and
100GeV.