We present a comparison of the properties of galaxies in the most underdense
regions of the Universe, where the galaxy number density is less than 10% of
the mean density, with galaxies from more typical regions. We have compiled a
sample of galaxies in 46 large nearby voids that were identified using the
Sloan Digital Sky Survey DR4, which provides the largest coverage of the sky.
We study the u-r color distribution, morphology, specific star formation rate,
and radial number density profiles for a total of 495 galaxies fainter than
M_r=-20.4 +5logh located inside the voids and compare these properties with a
control sample of field galaxies. We show that there is an excess of blue
galaxies inside the voids. However, inspecting the properties of blue and red
galaxies separately, we find that galaxy properties such as color distribution,
bulge-to-total ratios, and concentrations are remarkably similar between the
void and overall sample. The void galaxies also show the same specific star
formation rate at fixed color as the control galaxies. We compare our results
with the predictions of cosmological simulations of galaxy formation using the
Millennium Run semi-analytic galaxy catalog. We show that the properties of the
simulated galaxies in large voids are in reasonably good agreement with those
found in similar environments in the real Universe. To summarize, in spite of
the fact that galaxies in voids live in the least dense large-scale
environment, this environment makes very little impact on properties of
galaxies.