We calculate the in-medium masses of the bottomonium states ($\Upsilon(1S)$,
$\Upsilon(2S)$, $\Upsilon(3S)$ and $\Upsilon(4S)$) in isospin asymmetric
strange hadronic matter at finite temperatures. The medium modifications of the
masses arise due to the interaction of these heavy quarkonium states with the
gluon condensates of QCD. The gluon condensates in the hot hadronic matter are
computed from the medium modification of a scalar dilaton field within a chiral
SU(3) model, introduced in the hadronic model to incorporate the broken scale
invariance of QCD. There is seen to be drop in the masses of the bottomonium
states and mass shifts are observed to be quite considerable at high densities
for the excited states. The effects of density, isospin asymmetry, strangeness
as well as temperature of the medium on the masses of the $\Upsilon$-states are
investigated. The effects of the isospin asymmetry as well as strangeness
fraction of the medium are seen to be appreciable at high densities and small
temperatures. The density effects are the most dominant medium effects which
should have observable consequences in the compressed baryonic matter (CBM) in
the heavy ion collision experiments in the future facility at FAIR, GSI. The
study of the $\Upsilon$ states will however require access to energies higher
than the energy regime planned at CBM experiment. The density effects on the
bottomonium masses should also show up in the dilepton spectra at the SPS
energies, especially for the excited states for which the mass drop is observed
to quite appreciable.