The Interface Region Imaging Spectrometer (IRIS) is the first solar
instrument to observe $\sim 10$ MK plasma at subarcsecond spatial resolution
through imaging spectroscopy of the Fe XXI $\lambda$1354.1 forbidden line. IRIS
observations of the X1 class flare that occurred on 2014 March 29 at 17:48 UT
reveal Fe XXI emission from both the flare ribbons and the post-flare loop
arcade. Fe XXI appears at all of the chromospheric ribbon sites, although
typically with a delay of one raster (75 seconds) and sometimes offset by up to
1$^{\prime\prime}$. 100--200 km s$^{-1}$ blue-shifts are found at the brightest
ribbons, suggesting hot plasma upflow into the corona. The Fe XXI ribbon
emission is compact with a spatial extent of $< 2^{\prime\prime}$, and can
extend beyond the chromospheric ribbon locations. Examples are found of both
decreasing and increasing blue-shift in the direction away from the ribbon
locations, and blue-shifts were present for at least 6 minutes after the flare
peak. The post-flare loop arcade, seen in Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA)
131 \AA\ filtergram images that are dominated by Fe XXI, exhibited bright
loop-tops with an asymmetric intensity distribution. The sizes of the loop-tops
are resolved by IRIS at $\ge 1^{\prime\prime}$, and line widths in the
loop-tops are not broader than in the loop-legs suggesting the loop-tops are
not sites of enhanced turbulence. Line-of-sight speeds in the loop arcade are
typically $<10$ km s$^{-1}$, and mean non-thermal motions fall from 43 km
s$^{-1}$ at the flare peak to 26 km s$^{-1}$ six minutes later. If the average
velocity in the loop arcade is assumed to be at rest, then it implies a new
reference wavelength for the Fe XXI line of $1354.106\pm 0.023$ \AA.