Static and dynamic structure factors and various transport coefficients are
computed for a Lennard-Jones model of a binary fluid (A,B) with a symmetrical
miscibility gap, varying both temperature and relative concentration of the
mixture. The model is first equilibrated by a semi-grandcanonical Monte Carlo
method, choosing the temperature and chemical potential difference $\Delta \mu$
between the two species as the given independent variables. Varying for $\Delta
\mu=0$ the temperature and particle number $N$ over a wide range, the location
of the coexistence curve in the thermodynamic limit is estimated.
Well-equilibrated configurations from these Monte Carlo runs are used as
initial states for microcanonical Molecular Dynamics runs, in order to study
the microscopic structure and the behavior of transport coefficients as well as
dynamic correlation functions along the coexistence curve. Dynamic structure
factors $S_{\alpha \beta} (q,t)$ (and the corresponding static functions
$S_{\alpha \beta} (q)$) are recorded ($\alpha, \beta, \in$ A,B), $q$ being the
wavenumber and $t$ the time, as well as the mean square displacements of the
particles (to obtain the self-diffusion constants $D_{\rm A}$, $D_{\rm B}$) and
transport coefficients describing collective transport, such as the
interdiffusion constant and the shear viscosity. The minority species is found
to diffuse a bit faster than the majority species. Despite the presence of
strong concentration fluctuations in the system the Stokes-Einstein relation is
a reasonable approximation.