Transcriptional activity has been shown to relate to the organization of
chromosomes in the eukaryotic nucleus and in the bacterial nucleoid. In
particular, highly transcribed genes, RNA polymerases and transcription factors
gather into discrete spatial foci called transcription factories. However, the
mechanisms underlying the formation of these foci and the resulting topological
order of the chromosome remain to be elucidated. Here we consider a
thermodynamic framework based on a worm-like chain model of chromosomes where
sparse designated sites along the DNA are able to interact whenever they are
spatially close-by. This is motivated by recurrent evidence that there exists
physical interactions between genes that operate together. Three important
results come out of this simple framework. First, the resulting formation of
transcription foci can be viewed as a micro-phase separation of the interacting
sites from the rest of the DNA. In this respect, a thermodynamic analysis
suggests transcription factors to be appropriate candidates for mediating the
physical interactions between genes. Next, numerical simulations of the polymer
reveal a rich variety of phases that are associated with different topological
orderings, each providing a way to increase the local concentrations of the
interacting sites. Finally, the numerical results show that both
one-dimensional clustering and periodic location of the binding sites along the
DNA, which have been observed in several organisms, make the spatial
co-localization of multiple families of genes particularly efficient.