It has been argued that the photometric data and images of the archetypical
debris disk around Vega may be in contradiction with the standard, steady-state
collisional scenario of the disk evolution. Here we perform physical modeling
of the Vega disk "from the sources". We assume that dust is maintained by a
"Kuiper belt" of parent planetesimals at ~ 100 AU and employ our collisional
and radiative transfer codes to consistently model the size and radial
distribution of the disk material and then thermal emission of dust. In doing
so, we vary a broad set of parameters, including the stellar properties, the
exact location, extension, and dynamical excitation of the planetesimal belt,
chemical composition of solids, and the collisional prescription. We are able
to reproduce the spectral energy distribution in the entire wavelength range
from the near-infrared to millimeter, as well as the mid-IR and sub-millimeter
radial brightness profiles of the Vega disk. Thus our results suggest that the
Vega disk observations are compatible with a steady-state collisional dust
production, and we put important constraints on the disk parameters and
physical processes that sustain it. The total disk mass in < 100 km-sized
bodies is estimated to be ~ 10 Earth masses. Provided that collisional cascade
has been operating over much of the Vega age of ~ 350 Myr, the disk must have
lost a few Earth masses of solids during that time. We also demonstrate that
using an intermediate luminosity of the star between the pole and the equator,
as derived from its fast rotation, is required to reproduce the debris disk
observations. Finally, we show that including cratering collisions into the
model is mandatory.