Aims. We present an X-ray study of the supernova remnant SNR J0533-7202 in
the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) and determine its physical characteristics
based on its X-ray emission. Methods. We observed SNR J0533-7202 with
XMM-Newton (flare-filtered exposure times of 18 ks EPIC-pn and 31 ks
EPIC-MOS1/MOS2). We produced X-ray images of the SNR, performed an X-ray
spectral analysis, and compared the results to multi-wavelength studies.
Results. The distribution of X-ray emission is highly non-uniform, with the
south-west region brighter than the north-east. The X-ray emission is
correlated with the radio emission from the remnant. We determine that this
morphology is likely due to the SNR expanding into a non-uniform ambient medium
and not an absorption effect. We estimate the size to be 53.9 (\pm 3.4) x 43.6
(\pm 3.4) pc, with the major axis rotated ~64 degrees east of north. We find no
spectral signatures of ejecta and infer that the X-ray plasma is dominated by
swept-up interstellar medium. Using the spectral fit results and the Sedov
self-similar solution, we estimate an age of ~17-27 kyr, with an initial
explosion energy of (0.09-0.83) x 10^51 erg. We detected an X-ray source
located near the centre of the remnant, namely XMMU J053348.2-720233. The
source type could not be conclusively determined due to the lack of a
multi-wavelength counterpart and low X-ray counts. We find that it is likely
either a background active galactic nucleus or a low-mass X-ray binary in the
LMC. Conclusions. We detected bright thermal X-ray emission from SNR J0533-7202
and determined that the remnant is in the Sedov phase of its evolution. The
lack of ejecta emission prohibits us from typing the remnant with the X-ray
data. Therefore, the likely Type Ia classification based on the local stellar
population and star formation history reported in the literature cannot be
improved upon.