Uniquely among the dwarf spheroidal (dSph) satellite galaxies of the Milky
Way, Fornax hosts globular clusters. It remains a puzzle as to why dynamical
friction has not yet dragged any of Fornax's five globular clusters to the
centre, and also why there is no evidence that any similar star cluster has
been in the past (for Fornax or any other dSph). We set up a suite of 2800
N-body simulations that sample the full range of globular-cluster orbits and
mass models consistent with all existing observational constraints for Fornax.
In agreement with previous work, we find that if Fornax has a large dark-matter
core then its globular clusters remain close to their currently observed
locations for long times. Furthermore, we find previously unreported behaviour
for clusters that start inside the core region. These are pushed out of the
core and gain orbital energy, a process we call 'dynamical buoyancy'. Thus a
cored mass distribution in Fornax will naturally lead to a shell-like globular
cluster distribution near the core radius, independent of the initial
conditions. By contrast, CDM-type cusped mass distributions lead to the rapid
infall of at least one cluster within \Delta t = 1-2Gyr, except when picking
unlikely initial conditions for the cluster orbits (\sim 2% probability), and
almost all clusters within \Delta t = 10Gyr. Alternatively, if Fornax has only
a weakly cusped mass distribution, dynamical friction is much reduced. While
over \Delta t = 10Gyr this still leads to the infall of 1-4 clusters from their
present orbits, the infall of any cluster within \Delta t = 1-2Gyr is much less
likely (with probability 0-70%, depending on \Delta t and the strength of the
cusp). Such a solution to the timing problem requires that in the past the
globular clusters were somewhat further from Fornax than today; they most
likely did not form within Fornax, but were accreted.