Ark 564 (z=0.0247) is an X-ray-bright NLS1. By using advanced X-ray timing
techniques, an excess of "delayed" emission in the hard X-ray band (4-7.5 keV)
following about 1000 seconds after "flaring" light in the soft X-ray band
(0.4-1 keV) was recently detected. We report on the X-ray spectral analysis of
eight XMM-Newton and one Suzaku observation of Ark 564. High-resolution
spectroscopy was performed with the RGS in the soft X-ray band, while
broad-band spectroscopy was performed with the EPIC-pn and XIS/PIN instruments.
We analysed time-averaged, flux-selected, and time-resolved spectra. Despite
the strong variability in flux during our observational campaign, the
broad-band spectral shape of Ark 564 does not vary dramatically and can be
reproduced either by a superposition of a power law and a blackbody emission or
by a Comptonized power-law emission model. High-resolution spectroscopy
revealed ionised gas along the line of sight at the systemic redshift of the
source, with a low column density and a range of ionisation states. Broad-band
spectroscopy revealed a very steep intrinsic continuum and a rather weak
emission feature in the iron K band; modelling this feature with a reflection
component requires highly ionised gas. A reflection-dominated or an
absorption-dominated model are similarly able to well reproduce the
time-averaged data from a statistical point of view, in both cases requiring
contrived geometries and/or unlikely physical parameters. Finally, through
time-resolved analysis we spectroscopically identified the "delayed" emission
as a spectral hardening above ~4 keV; the most likely interpretation for this
component is a reprocessing of the "flaring" light by gas located at 10-100 r_g
from the central supermassive black hole that is so hot that it can
Compton-upscatter the flaring intrinsic continuum emission.