Recent observational studies have revealed star-to-star abundance
inhomogeneity among light elements (e.g., C, N, O, Na, and Al) of stars on the
main sequence in the Galactic globular clusters (GCs). One of promising
interpretations for this result is that the observed abundance inhomogeneity is
due to the second generation of stars formed from ejecta of the first
generation of evolved stars (e.g., AGB stars) within GCs. However it remains
unclear whether and how this primordial pollution can occur within GCs. We here
propose a new scenario in which primordial pollution of GCs is highly likely to
occur if GCs are located in the central regions of high redshift dark matter
subhalos that can host low-mass dwarf galaxies. In this scenario, gas ejected
from the first generation of stars of GCs can be effectively trapped in the
deep gravitational potential of their host halos and consequently can be
consumed for the formation of the second generation of stars without losing a
significant amount of gas by ram pressure stripping of interstellar and
intergalactic medium. During merging of these halos with the proto-Galaxy, the
halos are completely destroyed owing to the strong tidal field of the Galaxy.
The self-polluted GCs located initially in the central regions of the halos can
survive from tidal destruction owing to their compactness and finally become
the Galactic halo GCs. In this scenario, ejecta of field stars surrounding the
central GCs can be also converted into stars within their host dwarfs and
finally become the second generation of stars of GCs. We also discuss the
origin of the difference in the degree of abundance inhomogeneity between
different GCs, such as $\omega$ Centauri and NGC 6752, in terms of the
difference in physical properties between host halos from which GC originate.