Unicellular organisms are open metabolic systems that need to process
information about their external environment in order to survive. In most types
of tissues and organisms, cells use calcium signaling to carry information from
the extracellular side of the plasma membrane to the different metabolic
targets of their internal medium. This information might be encoded in the
amplitude, frequency, duration, waveform or timing of the calcium oscillations.
Thus, specific information coming from extracellular stimuli can be encoded in
the calcium signal and decoded again later in different locations within the
cell. Despite its cellular importance, little is known about the quantitative
informative properties of the calcium concentration dynamics inside the cell.
In order to understand some of these informational properties, we have studied
experimental Ca2+ series of Xenopus laevis oocytes under different external pH
stimulus. The data has been analyzed by means of information-theoretic
approaches such as Conditional Entropy, Information Retention, and other
non-linear dynamics tools such as the power spectra, the Largest Lyapunov
exponent and the bridge detrended Scaled Window Variance analysis. We have
quantified the biomolecular information flows of the experimental data in bits,
and essential aspects of the information contained in the experimental calcium
fluxes have been exhaustively analyzed. Our main result shows that inside all
the studied intracellular Ca2+ flows a highly organized informational structure
emerge, which exhibit deterministic chaotic behavior, long term memory and
complex oscillations of the uncertainty reduction based on past values. The
understanding of the informational properties of calcium signals is one of the
key elements to elucidate the physiological functional coupling of the cell and
the integrative dynamics of cellular life.