Future direct-imaging exoplanet missions such as WFIRST/AFTA, Exo-C, and
Exo-S will measure the reflectivity of exoplanets at visible wavelengths. The
exoplanets to be observed will be located further away from their parent stars
than is Earth from the Sun. These "cold" exoplanets have atmospheric
environments conducive for the formation of water and/or ammonia clouds, like
Jupiter in the Solar System. We study the science return from direct-imaging
exoplanet missions, focusing on the exoplanet atmospheric compositions. First,
the study shows that a low-resolution (R=70) reflection spectrum of a giant
exoplanet at 600 - 1000 nm, for a moderate signal-to-noise ratio of 20, will
allow measurements of both the pressure of the uppermost cloud deck and the
mixing ratio of methane, if the uppermost cloud deck is located at the pressure
level of 0.6 - 1.5 bars. Further increasing the signal-to-noise ratio can
improve the measurement range of the cloud deck pressure to 0.2 - 4 bars. The
strong and the weak absorption bands of methane allow the simultaneous
measurements of cloud and gas; when the uppermost cloud deck is located
shallower than the pressure level of 0.2, the weak bands are muted, and the
cloud deck pressure and the mixing ratio of methane are not distinguishable
from a single reflection spectrum. Second, future direct-imaging exoplanet
missions may detect the broadband reflectivity of a few super-Earth exoplanets.
If having H2O-dominated atmospheres, directly imaged super Earths are likely to
have water clouds located shallower than 1E-3 bars. The very high clouds on
these planets would mute most gas absorption features except for H2O, and these
planets would occupy a confined phase space in the color-color diagrams.