We report observations of the double nucleus of M31 with the f/48 long-slit
spectrograph of the HST Faint Object Camera. We obtain a total exposure of
19,000 sec. over 7 orbits, with the 0.063-arcsec-wide slit along the line
between the two brightness peaks (PA 42). A spectrum of Jupiter is used as a
spectral template. The rotation curve is resolved, and reaches a maximum
amplitude of ~250 km/s roughly 0.3 arcsec either side of a rotation center
lying between P1 and P2, 0.16 +/- 0.05 arcsec from the optically fainter P2. We
find the velocity dispersion to be < 250 km/s everywhere except for a narrow
``dispersion spike'', centered 0.06 +/- 0.03 arcsec on the anti-P1 side of P2,
in which sigma peaks at 440 +/- 70 km/s. At much lower confidence, we see local
disturbances to the rotation curve at P1 and P2, and an elevation in sigma at
P1. At very low significance we detect a weak asymmetry in the line-of-sight
velocity distribution opposite to the sense usually encountered. Convolving our
V and sigma profiles to CFHT resolution, we find good agreement with the
results of Kormendy & Bender (1998, preprint), though there is a 20%
discrepancy in the dispersion that cannot be attributed to the dispersion
spike. Our results are not consistent with the location of the maximum
dispersion as found by Bacon et al. We find that the sinking star cluster model
of Emsellem & Combes (1997) does not reproduce either the rotation curve or the
dispersion profile. The eccentric disk model of Tremaine (1995) fares better,
and can be improved somewhat by adjusting the original parameters. However,
detailed modeling will require dynamical models of significantly greater
realism.