We have analysed ground-based multi-colour Stromgren photometry and
single-filter photometry from the star tracker on the WIRE satellite of the
delta scuti star Epsilon Cephei. The ground-based data set consists of 16
nights of data collected over 164 days, while the satellite data are nearly
continuous coverage of the star during 14 days. The spectral window and noise
level of the satellite data are superior to the ground-based data and this data
set is used to locate the frequencies. However, we can use the ground-based
data to improve the accuracy of the frequencies due to the much longer time
baseline. We detect 26 oscillation frequencies in the WIRE data set, but only
some of these can be seen clearly in the ground-based data. We have used the
multi-colour ground-based photometry to determine amplitude and phase
differences in the Stromgren b-y colour and the y filter in an attempt to
identify the radial degree of the oscillation frequencies. We conclude that the
accuracies of the amplitudes and phases are not sufficient to constrain
theoretical models of Epsilon Cephei. We find no evidence for rotational
splitting or the large separation among the frequencies detected in the WIRE
data set. To be able to identify oscillation frequencies in delta scuti stars
with the method we have applied, it is crucial to obtain more complete coverage
from multi-site campaigns with a long time baseline and in multiple filters.
This is important when planning photometric and spectroscopic ground-based
support for future satellite missions like COROT and KEPLER.