The aim of this paper is to identify the young protostellar counterparts
associated to dust millimeter cores of the Vela Molecular Ridge Cloud D through
new IR observations (H_2 narrow-band at 2.12 micron and N broad band at 10.4
micron) along with an investigation performed on the existing IR catalogues.
The association of mm continuum emission with infrared sources from catalogues
(IRAS, MSX, 2MASS), JHK data from the literature and new observations, has been
established according to spatial coincidence, infrared colours and spectral
energy distributions. Only 7 out of 29 resolved mm cores (and 16 out of the 26
unresolved ones) do not exhibit signposts of star formation activity. The other
ones are clearly associated with: far-IR sources, H_2 jets or near-IR objects
showing a high intrinsic colour excess. The distribution of the spectral
indices pertaining to the associated sources is peaked at values typical of
Class I objects, while three objects are signalled as candidates Class 0
sources. We remark the high detection rate (30%) of H_2 jets driven by sources
located inside the mm-cores. They appear not driven by the most luminous
objects in the field, but rather by less luminous objects in young clusters,
testifying the co-existence of both low- and intermediate-mass star formation.
The presented results reliably describe the young population of VMR-D. However,
the statistical evaluation of activity vs inactivity of the investigated cores,
even in good agreement with results found for other star forming regions, seems
to reflect the limiting sensitivity of the available facilities rather than any
property intrinsic to the mm-condensations.