Numerical simulation of seismicity has been successfully developed and used
for the two last decades. Presently, the general theory of modeling and the
progress in computational techniques provide wide options for simulation of
seismic and aseismic events with various source mechanisms accounting for
blocky structure of rock mass, inclusions, faults, cracks, complicated contact
conditions and various mechanical properties of rock. Meanwhile, in practical
applications, the input data are limited and uncertain. The data on observed
seismicity are also often limited with a few parameters, like coordinates and
time. The paper aims to agree the input and output data, used in and provided
by numerical simulations, with uncertain and limited data of direct
observations. For the input parameters, we suggest their minimal set, which
complies with commonly available data. For output seismic parameters, we
distinguish three major groups, which are provided by field observations. The
first group includes the common (minimal) data on distributions of the event
location. These distributions are of special value for improving the input data
on geometrical features of a problem. The second group employs the data
(commonly available, as well) on the event magnitude. These distributions are
of exceptional need for evaluating the risk of strong events. The third group
employs data on the event source mechanism. It is based on the tensor of
seismic moment/potency, provided by advanced mining seismic systems. This group
includes distributions of the geometrical parameters of the event source
(orientation of nodal planes, B, P and T directions). It is especially
important when establishing and using the connection between stresses and
seismicity. The exposition is illustrated by considering an example of
long-wall mining in a coal seam.