We have obtained a second epoch observation of the Cassiopeia A supernova
remnant (SNR) with the Chandra X-ray Observatory to measure detailed X-ray
proper motions for the first time. Both epoch observations are 50 ks exposures
of the ACIS-S3 chip and they are separated by 2 years. Measurements of the thin
X-ray continuum dominated filaments located around the edge of the remnant
(that are identified with the forward shock) show expansion rates from 0.02%/yr
to 0.33%/yr. Many of these filaments are therefore significantly decelerated.
Their median value of 0.21%/yr is equal to the median expansion of the bright
ring (0.21%/yr) as measured with Einstein and ROSAT. This presents a conundrum
if the motion of the bright ring is indicative of the reverse shock speed. We
have also re-evaluated the motion of the radio bright ring with emphasis on
angle-averaged emissivity profiles. Our new measurement of the expansion of the
angle-averaged radio bright ring is 0.07 plus or minus 0.03%/yr, somewhat
slower than the previous radio measurements of 0.11%/yr which were sensitive to
the motions of small-scale features. We propose that the expansion of the
small-scale bright ring features in the optical, X-ray, and radio do not
represent the expansion of the reverse shock, but rather represent a
brightness-weighted average of ejecta passing through and being decelerated by
the reverse shock. The motion of the reverse shock, itself, is then represented
by the motion of the angle-averaged emissivity profile of the radio bright
ring.