Of the many recently discovered worlds orbiting distant stars, very little is
yet known of their chemical composition. With the arrival of new transit
spectroscopy and direct imaging facilities, the question of molecular
detectability as a function of signal-to-noise (SNR), spectral resolving power
and type of planets has become critical. In this paper, we study the
detectability of key molecules in the atmospheres of a range of planet types,
and report on the minimum detectable abundances at fixed spectral resolving
power and SNR. The planet types considered - hot Jupiters, hot super-Earths,
warm Neptunes, temperate Jupiters and temperate super-Earths - cover most of
the exoplanets characterisable today or in the near future. We focus on key
atmospheric molecules, such as CH4, CO, CO2, NH3, H2O, C2H2, C2H6, HCN, H2S and
PH3. We use two methods to assess the detectability of these molecules: a
simple measurement of the deviation of the signal from the continuum, and an
estimate of the level of confidence of a detection through the use of the
likelihood ratio test over the whole spectrum (from 1 to 16$\mu m$). We find
that for most planetary cases, SNR=5 at resolution R=300 ($\lambda < 5\mu m$)
and R=30 ($\lambda > 5\mu m$) is enough to detect the very strongest spectral
features for the most abundant molecules, whereas an SNR comprised between 10
and 20 can reveal most molecules with abundances 10^-6 or lower, often at
multiple wavelengths. We test the robustness of our results by exploring
sensitivity to parameters such as vertical thermal profile, mean molecular
weight of the atmosphere and relative water abundances. We find that our main
conclusions remain valid except for the most extreme cases. Our analysis shows
that the detectability of key molecules in the atmospheres of a variety of
exoplanet cases is within realistic reach, even with low SNR and spectral
resolving power.