We present a strong lensing system in which a double source is imaged 5 times
by 2 early-type galaxies. We take advantage in this target of the multi-band
photometry obtained as part of the CLASH program, complemented by the
spectroscopic data of the VLT/VIMOS and FORS2 follow-up campaign. We use a
photometric redshift of 3.7 for the source and confirm spectroscopically the
membership of the 2 lenses to the galaxy cluster MACS J1206.2-0847 at redshift
0.44. We exploit the excellent angular resolution of the HST/ACS images to
model the 2 lenses in terms of singular isothermal sphere profiles and derive
robust effective velocity dispersions of (97 +/- 3) and (240 +/- 6) km/s. The
total mass distribution of the cluster is also well characterized by using only
the local information contained in this lensing system, that is located at a
projected distance of more than 300 kpc from the cluster luminosity center.
According to our best-fitting lensing and composite stellar population models,
the source is magnified by a total factor of 50 and has a luminous mass of
about (1.0 +/- 0.5) x 10^{9} M_{Sun}. By combining the total and luminous mass
estimates of the 2 lenses, we measure luminous over total mass fractions
projected within the effective radii of 0.51 +/- 0.21 and 0.80 +/- 0.32. With
these lenses we can extend the analysis of the mass properties of lens
early-type galaxies by factors that are about 2 and 3 times smaller than
previously done with regard to, respectively, velocity dispersion and luminous
mass. The comparison of the total and luminous quantities of our lenses with
those of astrophysical objects with different physical scales reveals the
potential of studies of this kind for investigating the internal structure of
galaxies. These studies, made possible thanks to the CLASH survey, will allow
us to go beyond the current limits posed by the available lens samples in the
field.