We present a numerical method to estimate the strengths of arbitrary three
body mean motion resonances between two planets in circular coplanar orbits and
a massless particle in an arbitrary orbit. This method allows us to obtain an
atlas of the three body resonances in the Solar System showing where are
located and how strong are thousands of resonances involving all the planets
from 0 to 1000 au. This atlas confirms the dynamical relevance of the three
body resonances involving Jupiter and Saturn in the asteroid belt but also
shows the existence of a family of relatively strong three body resonances
involving Uranus and Neptune in the far Trans-Neptunian region and relatively
strong resonances involving terrestrial and jovian planets in the inner
planetary system. We calculate the density of relevant resonances along the
Solar System resulting that the main asteroid belt is located in a region of
the planetary system with the lowest density of three body resonances. The
method also allows the location of the equilibrium points showing the existence
of asymmetric librations (sigma different from 0 or 180 degrees). We obtain the
functional dependence of the resonance's strength with the order of the
resonance and the eccentricity and inclination of the particle's orbit. We
identify some objects evolving in or very close to three body resonances with
Earth-Jupiter, Saturn-Neptune and Uranus-Neptune apart from Jupiter-Saturn, in
particular the NEA 2009 SJ18 is evolving in the resonance 1-1E-1J and the
centaur 10199 Chariklo is evolving under the influence of the resonance
5-2S-2N.