Any information is valuable as long as it has related data. If related data
are not put together, the information is meaningless as unrelated data has no
value. The mapped information is required only by authenticated users. So there
is no necessity to store related information together. If the relations of a
database are fragmented into chunks and these chunks are stored at different
cloud service providers, it could prevent from any privacy breach and the data
stored will be secure. It would also reduce the data transfer costs as the
entire data is not always required, for e.g. during updates. Also, instead of
storage of chunks at a single CSP, if each chunk or fragment is stored at
multiple CSPs it ensures availability and also permits concurrent access.
Additionally, it would prevent financial loss during cloud outages and also
prevent data lock-in. Replicating data chunks at multiple clouds situated at
geographically different locations would also have an additional decrease in
response time. The work attempts to select multiple cloud service providers
within a given budget so as to ensure maximum availability of data. The entire
data can be stored at each of the data centers selected depending on the budget
when there is no security or privacy issue. Data can also be stored in chunks
by replicating each data chunk at two or more cloud service providers.
Different chunks can be replicated at different service providers. The work
also attempts to select various cloud service providers to ensure maximum valid
data chunks within a given budget.