The LHCb Vertex Locator (VELO) is a silicon strip detector designed to
reconstruct charged particle trajectories and vertices produced at the LHCb
interaction region. During the first two years of data collection, the 84 VELO
sensors have been exposed to a range of fluences up to a maximum value of
approximately $\rm{45 \times 10^{12}\,1\,MeV}$ neutron equivalent
($\rm{1\,MeV\,n_{eq}}$). At the operational sensor temperature of approximately
$-7\,^{\circ}\rm{C}$, the average rate of sensor current increase is
$18\,\upmu\rm{A}$ per $\rm{fb^{-1}}$, in excellent agreement with predictions.
The silicon effective bandgap has been determined using current versus
temperature scan data after irradiation, with an average value of
$E_{g}=1.16\pm0.03\pm0.04\,\rm{eV}$ obtained. The first observation of n-on-n
sensor type inversion at the LHC has been made, occurring at a fluence of
around $15 \times 10 ^{12}$ of $1\,\rm{MeV\,n_{eq}}$. The only n-on-p sensors
in use at the LHC have also been studied. With an initial fluence of
approximately $\rm{3 \times 10^{12}\,1\,MeV\,n_{eq}}$, a decrease in the
Effective Depletion Voltage (EDV) of around 25\,V is observed, attributed to
oxygen induced removal of boron interstitial sites. Following this initial
decrease, the EDV increases at a comparable rate to the type inverted n-on-n
type sensors, with rates of $(1.43\pm 0.16) \times 10 ^{-12}\,\rm{V} / \, 1 \,
\rm{MeV\,n_{eq}}$ and $(1.35\pm 0.25) \times 10 ^{-12}\,\rm{V} / \, 1 \,
\rm{MeV\,n_{eq}}$ measured for n-on-p and n-on-n type sensors, respectively. A
reduction in the charge collection efficiency due to an unexpected effect
involving the second metal layer readout lines is observed.