We present a new X-ray analysis mainly based on ROSAT HRI data. The HRI
spatial resolution combined with an improved wavelet analysis method and with
complementary radio and optical data provides new results compared to a
previous paper based on ROSAT PSPC data (Pislar et al. 1997). We use also
redshift data in order to identify galaxies dynamically belonging to the main
body of the cluster and/or to superimposed substructures. Various kinds of
emission are superimposed on a mean thermal X-ray emission due to the
intra-cluster gas: a) an X-ray flux excess in the centre; b) a south blob,
partially generated by individual galaxies. The mean velocity and velocity
dispersion of the galaxies located in this region are the same as those of the
cluster as a whole: it therefore does not seem to be a bound subgroup; c) West
emission due to a foreground group with self-emission from a Seyfert galaxy
located at the north-west; d) emission in the south-west due to inverse Compton
emission associated to a very steep radio source (the remnant of an active
galactic nucleus). We have examined the possibility for the central peak to be
an "unusual" galaxy, as assumed for the central galaxy of J2310-43 (Tananbaum
et al. 1997). We conclude on the existence of a cooling flow region, in which
the presence of at least three small features certainly related to cooler blobs
is revealed by the wavelet analysis. We have performed a pixel-to-pixel
modelling of the double X-ray emission. The large scale emission component is
comparable to those derived from by the PSPC data and the small scale one is
interpreted as a cooling-flow. A multiphase gas model analysis leads to a mass
deposit of 50-150 M_\odot/yr.