One of the major goals of observational cosmology is to acquire empirical
data that has the diagnostic power to develop the theoretical modelling of the
high-redshift universe, ultimately leading to an accurate understanding of the
processes by which galaxies and clusters form and subsequently evolve. New
bolometer arrays operating on the world's largest submillimetre telescopes now
offer a unique view of the high-redshift universe through unbiassed surveys
with unprecedented sensitivity. For brevity, except when there is a need to be
more specific, the FIR to millimetre wavelength regime (100um < lambda <
6000um) will be referred to as the ``submillimetre'' (submm). One of the major
challenges in this field is to accurately quantify the star-formation history
of submm-selected galaxies, particularly those at redshifts > 1, and determine
their contribution to the submm extragalactic background. The field of
observational cosmology will be revolutionized during the course of the next 10
years due to the variety of powerful new ground-based, airborne and satellite
facilities, particularly those operating at FIR to millimetre wavelengths. This
review summarises the results from the recent blank-field submm surveys, and
describes the future observations that will provide accurate source-counts over
wider ranges of wavelength and flux-density, constrain the spectral energy
distributions of the submm-selected galaxies and accurately constrain the
redshift distribution and submm luminosity function by removing the current
ambiguities in the optical, IR and radio counterparts.