We study two-dimensional (2D) matter-wave gap solitons trapped in an
elliptically deformed concentric lattice potential, within the framework of the
Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) with self-attraction or self-repulsion. For a
fixed eccentricity of the lattice, soliton families are found in both the
repulsive and attractive models. In the former case, the analysis reveals two
kinds of gap solitons trapped in the first oval trough (the ring-shaped
potential minimum closest to the center): elliptic annular solitons (EASs), and
double solitons (DSs), which are formed by two tightly localized density peaks
located at diametrically opposite points of the trough, with zero phase
difference between them. With the decrease of the norm, the density
distribution in the EAS along the azimuthal direction changes from
nearly-uniform to double-peaked and, eventually, to the DS. In the attractive
model, there exist only DSs in the oval trough, while EASs are not found. All
such solitons without the angular momentum (l = 0) are fully stable. For l is
not equal to 0, vortical solitons - both EASs with a sufficiently large norm
(in the repulsive model) and DSs (in models with both signs of the
nonlinearity) - are quasi-stable, exhibiting rocking motion in the elliptic
trough (we consider the cases of l=1 and l=2). At smaller values of the norm,
the vortical annular solitons (in the repulsive model) are unstable. Stable
fundamental solitons trapped in the central potential well are investigated
too, in both the attractive and repulsive models, by means of the variational
approximation and numerical methods.