This thesis is devoted to the investigations of gravitational wave (GW) data
analysis from a continuous source e.g. a pulsar, a binary star system. The
first Chapter is an introduction to gravitational wave and second Chapter is on
the data analysis concept for the detection of GW. In third Chapter we
developed the Fourier Transform (FT) of a continuous gravitational wave (CGW)
for ground based laser interferometric detectors for the data set of one day
observation time incorporating the effects arising due to rotational as well as
orbital motion of the earth. The transform is applicable for arbitrary location
of detector and source. In Chapter four we have generalized the FT for the data
set for (i) one year observation time and (ii) arbitrary observation time. As
an application of the transform we considered spin down and N-component signal
analysis. In fifth Chapter we have made an analysis of the number of templates
required for matched filter analysis as applicable to these sources. We have
employed the concept of {\it Fitting Factor (FF)}; treating the source location
as the parameters of the signal manifold and have studied the matching of the
signal with templates corresponding to different source locations. We have
investigated the variation of {\it FF} with source location and have noticed a
symmetry in template parameters, $\theta_T$ and $\phi_T$. It has been found
that the two different template values in source location, each in $\theta_T$
and $\phi_T$, have same {\it FF}. We have also computed the number of templates
required assuming the noise power spectral density $S_n(f)$ to be flat. It is
observed that higher {\it FF} requires exponentially increasing large number of
templates. Appendix contains the source codes developed for the computation.