A deep 400-ksec ACIS-S observation of the nearest quasar known, Mrk 231, is
combined with archival 120-ksec data obtained with the same instrument and
setup to carry out the first ever spatially resolved spectral analysis of a hot
X-ray emitting circumgalactic nebula around a quasar. The 65 x 50 kpc X-ray
nebula shares no resemblance with the tidal debris seen at optical wavelengths.
One notable exception is the small tidal arc 3.5 kpc south of the nucleus where
excess soft X-ray continuum emission and Si XIII 1.8 keV line emission are
detected, consistent with star formation and its associated alpha-element
enhancement, respectively. An X-ray shadow is also detected at the location of
the 15-kpc northern tidal tail. The hard X-ray continuum emission within 6 kpc
of the center is consistent with being due entirely to the bright central AGN.
The soft X-ray spectrum of the outer (>6 kpc) portion of the nebula is best
described as the sum of two thermal components with T~3 and ~8 million K and
spatially uniform super-solar alpha element abundances, relative to iron. This
result implies enhanced star formation activity over ~10^8 yrs accompanied with
redistribution of the metals on large scale. The low-temperature thermal
component is not present within 6 kpc of the nucleus, suggesting extra heating
in this region from the circumnuclear starburst, the central quasar, or the
wide-angle quasar-driven outflow identified from optical IFU spectroscopy on a
scale of >3 kpc. Significant azimuthal variations in the soft X-ray intensity
are detected in the inner region where the outflow is present. The soft X-ray
emission is weaker in the western quadrant, coincident with a deficit of Halpha
and some of the largest columns of neutral gas outflowing from the nucleus.
Shocks created by the interaction of the wind with the ambient ISM may heat the
gas to high temperatures at this location. (abridged)