Multi-cell cooperation (MCC) is an approach for mitigating inter-cell
interference in dense cellular networks. Existing studies on MCC performance
typically rely on either over-simplified Wyner-type models or complex
system-level simulations. The promising theoretical results (typically using
Wyner models) seem to materialize neither in complex simulations nor in
practice. To more accurately investigate the theoretical performance of MCC,
this paper models an entire plane of interfering cells as a Poisson random
tessellation. The base stations (BSs) are then clustered using a regular
lattice, whereby BSs in the same cluster mitigate mutual interference by
beamforming with perfect channel state information. Techniques from stochastic
geometry and large deviation theory are applied to analyze the outage
probability as a function of the mobile locations, scattering environment, and
the average number of cooperating BSs per cluster, L. For mobiles near the
centers of BS clusters, it is shown that as L increases, outage probability
diminishes sub-exponentially if scattering is sparse, and following a power law
with an exponent proportional to the signal diversity order if scattering is
rich. For randomly located mobiles, regardless of scattering, outage
probability is shown to scale with increasing L following a power law with an
exponent no larger than 0.5. These results confirm analytically that
cluster-edge mobiles are the bottleneck for network coverage and provide a
plausible analytic framework for more realistic analysis of other multi-cell
techniques.