The poorly-ionized interior of the protoplanetary disk is the location where
dust coagulation processes may be most efficient. However even here,
planetesimal formation may be limited by the loss of solid material through
radial drift, and by collisional fragmentation of the particles. Our aim is to
investigate the possibility that solid particles are trapped at local pressure
maxima in the dynamically evolving disk. We perform the first 3-D global
non-ideal MHD calculations of the disk treating the turbulence driven by the
magneto-rotational instability. The domain contains an inner MRI-active region
near the young star and an outer midplane dead zone, with the transition
between the two modeled by a sharp increase in the magnetic diffusivity. The
azimuthal magnetic fields generated in the active zone oscillate over time,
changing sign about every 150 years. We thus observe the radial structure of
the `butterfly pattern' seen previously in local shearing-box simulations. The
mean magnetic field diffuses from the active zone into the dead zone, where the
Reynolds stress nevertheless dominates. The greater total accretion stress in
the active zone leads to a net reduction in the surface density, so that after
800 years an approximate steady state is reached in which a local radial
maximum in the midplane pressure lies near the transition radius. We also
observe the formation of density ridges within the active zone. The dead zone
in our models possesses a mean magnetic field, significant Reynolds stresses
and a steady local pressure maximum at the inner edge, where the outward
migration of planetary embryos and the efficient trapping of solid material are
possible.