In this paper, we use data collected from over 2000 non-residential electric
vehicle supply equipments (EVSEs) located in Northern California for the year
of 2013 to estimate the potential benefits of smart electric vehicle (EV)
charging. We develop a smart charging framework to identify the benefits of
non-residential EV charging to the load aggregators and the distribution grid.
Using this extensive dataset, we aim to improve upon past studies focusing on
the benefits of smart EV charging by relaxing the assumptions made in these
studies regarding: (i) driving patterns, driver behavior and driver types; (ii)
the scalability of a limited number of simulated vehicles to represent
different load aggregation points in the power system with different customer
characteristics; and (iii) the charging profile of EVs. First, we study the
benefits of EV aggregations behind-the-meter, where a time-of-use pricing
schema is used to understand the benefits to the owner when EV aggregations
shift load from high cost periods to lower cost periods. For the year of 2013,
we show a reduction of up to 24.8% in the monthly bill is possible. Then,
following a similar aggregation strategy, we show that EV aggregations decrease
their contribution to the system peak load by approximately 40% when charging
is controlled within arrival and departure times. Our results also show that it
could be expected to shift approximately 0.25kWh (~2.8%) of energy per
non-residential EV charging session from peak periods (12PM-6PM) to off-peak
periods (after 6PM) in Northern California for the year of 2013.