We present the first results of a wide area X-ray survey within the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, a 300 deg$^2$ region of the sky with a
substantial investment in multi-wavelength coverage. We analyzed archival {\it
Chandra} observations that cover 7.5 deg$^2$ within Stripe 82 ("Stripe 82
ACX"), reaching 4.5$\sigma$ flux limits of 7.9$\times10^{-16}$,
3.4$\times10^{-15}$ and 1.8$\times10^{-15}$ erg s$^{-1}$ cm$^{-2}$ in the soft
(0.5-2 keV), hard (2-7 keV) and full (0.5-7 keV) bands, to find 774, 239 and
1118 X-ray sources, respectively. Three hundred twenty-one sources are detected
only in the full band and 9 sources are detected solely in the soft band.
Utilizing data products from the {\it Chandra} Source Catalog, we construct
independent Log$N$-Log$S$ relationships, detailing the number density of X-ray
sources as a function of flux, which show general agreement with previous {\it
Chandra} surveys. We compare the luminosity distribution of Stripe 82 ACX with
the smaller, deeper CDF-S + E-CDFS surveys and with {\it Chandra}-COSMOS,
illustrating the benefit of wide-area surveys in locating high luminosity AGN.
We also investigate the differences and similarities of X-ray and optical
selection to uncover obscured AGN in the local Universe. Finally, we estimate
the population of AGN we expect to find with increased coverage of 100 deg$^2$
or 300 deg$^2$, which will provide unprecedented insight into the high
redshift, high luminosity regime of black hole growth currently
under-represented in X-ray surveys.