This paper aims to study the polarization of hard X-ray (HXR) sources in the
solar atmosphere, including Compton backscattering of photons in the
photosphere (the albedo effect) and the spatial distribution of polarization
across the source. HXR photon polarization and spectra produced via
electron-ion bremsstrahlung are calculated from electron distributions typical
for solar flares. Compton scattering and photoelectric absorption are then
modelled using Monte Carlo simulations of photon transport in the photosphere.
Polarization maps across HXR sources (primary and albedo components) for each
of the modelled electron distributions are calculated at various source
locations from the solar centre to the limb. We show that Compton scattering
produces a distinct polarization variation across the albedo patch at peak
albedo energies of 20-50 keV for all anisotropies modelled. The results show
that there are distinct spatial polarization changes in both the radial and
perpendicular to radial directions across the extent of the HXR source at a
given disk location. In the radial direction, the polarization magnitude and
direction at specific positions along the HXR source will either increase or
decrease with increased photon distribution directivity towards the
photosphere. We also show how high electron cutoff energies influence the
direction of polarization at above ~100 keV. Spatially resolved HXR
polarization measurements can provide important information about the
directivity and energetics of the electron distribution. Our results indicate
the preferred angular resolution of polarization measurements required to
distinguish between the scattered and primary components. We also show how
spatially resolved polarization measurements could be used to probe the
emission pattern of an HXR source, using both the magnitude and the direction
of polarization.