Current sheets are essential for energy dissipation in the solar corona, in
particular by enabling magnetic reconnection. Unfortunately, sufficiently thin
current sheets cannot be resolved observationally and the theory of their
formation is an unresolved issue as well. We consider two predictors of coronal
current concentrations, both based on geometrical or even topological
properties of a force free coronal magnetic field. First, there are
separatrices related to magnetic nulls. Through separatrices the magnetic
connectivity changes discontinuously. Coronal magnetic nulls are, however, very
rare. At second, inspired by the concept of generalized magnetic reconnection
without nulls, quasi-separatrix layers (QSL) were suggested. Through QSL the
magnetic connectivity changes continuously, though strongly. The strength of
the connectivity change can be quantified by measuring the squashing of the
flux tubes which connect the magnetically conjugated photospheres.
  We verify the QSL and separatrix concepts by comparing the sites of magnetic
nulls and enhanced squashing with the location of current concentrations in the
corona. Due to the known difficulties of their direct observation we simulated
the coronal current sheets by numerically calculating the response of the
corona to energy input from the photosphere heating a simultaneously observed
EUV Bright Point. We did not find coronal current sheets not at the
separatrices but at several QSL locations. The reason is that although the
geometrical properties of force free extrapolated magnetic fields can indeed,
hint at possible current concentrations, a necessary condition for current
sheet formation is the local energy input into the corona.