Mass campaigns with antimalarial drugs are potentially a powerful tool for
local elimination of malaria, yet current diagnostic technologies are
insufficiently sensitive to identify all individuals who harbor infections. At
the same time, overtreatment of uninfected individuals increases the risk of
accelerating emergence of drug resistance and losing community acceptance.
Local heterogeneity in transmission intensity may allow campaign strategies
that respond to index cases to successfully target subpatent infections while
simultaneously limiting overtreatment. While selective targeting of hotspots of
transmission has been proposed as a strategy for malaria control, such
targeting has not been tested in the context of malaria elimination. Using
household locations, demographics, and prevalence data from a survey of four
health facility catchment areas in southern Zambia and an agent-based model of
malaria transmission and immunity acquisition, a transmission intensity was fit
to each household based on neighborhood age-dependent malaria prevalence. A set
of individual infection trajectories was constructed for every household in
each catchment area, accounting for heterogeneous exposure and immunity.
Various campaign strategies (mass drug administration, mass screen and treat,
focal mass drug administration, snowball reactive case detection, pooled
sampling, and a hypothetical serological diagnostic) were simulated and
evaluated for performance at finding infections, minimizing overtreatment,
reducing clinical case counts, and interrupting transmission. For malaria
control, presumptive treatment leads to substantial overtreatment without
additional morbidity reduction under all but the highest transmission
conditions. Selective targeting of hotspots with drug campaigns is an
ineffective tool for elimination due to limited sensitivity of available field
diagnostics.