Lumped-element kinetic inductance detectors(LEKIDs) have recently shown
considerable promise as direct absorption mm-wavelength detectors for
astronomical applications. One major research thrust within the N\'eel Iram
Kids Array (NIKA) collaboration has been to investigate the suitability of
these detectors for deployment at the 30-meter IRAM telescope located on Pico
Veleta in Spain. Compared to microwave kinetic inductance detectors (MKID),
using quarter wavelength resonators, the resonant circuit of a LEKID consists
of a discrete inductance and capacitance coupled to a feedline. A high and
constant current density distribution in the inductive part of these resonators
makes them very sensitive. Due to only one metal layer on a silicon substrate,
the fabrication is relatively easy. In order to optimize the LEKIDs for this
application, we have recently probed a wide variety of individual resonator and
array parameters through simulation and physical testing. This included
determining the optimal feed-line coupling, pixel geometry, resonator
distribution within an array (in order to minimize pixel cross-talk), and
resonator frequency spacing. Based on these results, a 144-pixel Aluminum array
was fabricated and tested in a dilution fridge with optical access, yielding an
average optical NEP of ~2E-16 W/Hz^1/2 (best pixels showed NEP = 6E-17 W/Hz^1/2
under 4-8 pW loading per pixel). In October 2010 the second prototype of LEKIDs
has been tested at the IRAM 30 m telescope. A new LEKID geometry for 2
polarizations will be presented. Also first optical measurements of a titanium
nitride array will be discussed.