Swift J2218.4+1925, a hard X-ray source detected by Swift BAT, has been
proposed as a candidate magnetic cataclysmic variable of the polar type from
optical spectroscopy. Using XMM-Newton we perform detailed timing and spectral
analysis with simultaneous X-ray ($0.3-10$ keV) and optical B band data. We
complement the spectral study with archival hard X-ray (14-70 keV) spectra
collected by Swift BAT as well as with optical, near and mid-infrared
photometry from $SDSS$, $2MASS$ and $WISE$ archive, respectively. A strong
periodic X-ray signal at 2.16 h, consistent with the recently determined
spectroscopic orbital period, adds Swift J2218.4+1925 to the small group of
hard X-ray polars and locates it at the low edge of the orbital period gap. The
X-ray pulse profile shows the typical bright and faint phases seen in polars
($\sim 70%$ and $\sim 30%$ of the orbit, respectively). A pronounced dip
centred on the bright phase is also detected. It is stronger at lower energies
and is mainly produced by photoelectric absorption. A binary inclination $i
\sim 40^o - 50^o$ and a magnetic colatitude $\beta \sim 55^o - 64^o$ are
estimated. The source appears to accrete over a large area $\sim 24^o$ wide. A
multi-temperature optically thin emission with complex absorption well
describes the broad-band ($0.3-70$ keV) spectrum, with no signs of a soft X-ray
blackbody component. The spectral shape varies with the source rotation
reaching plasma temperatures up to 55 keV, hardening at the dip and being
softer during the faint phase ($\sim7$ keV). We find the first indication of an
absorption edge due to a warm absorber in a polar. Indication of overabundance
of neon is found in the RGS spectra. The UV to mid-IR spectral energy
distribution reveals an excess in the near and mid-IR, likely due to low
cyclotron harmonics. We estimate a WD mass of 0.97 M$_{\odot}$ and a distance
of 230-250 pc.