We have carried out a pilot project to assess the feasibility of using radio,
infrared, and X-ray emission to identify young, massive stars located between 1
and 25 pc from the Galactic center. We first compared catalogs compiled from
the Very Large Array, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, and 2MASS. We identified
two massive, young stars: the previously-identified star that is associated
with the radio HII region H2, and a newly-identified star that we refer to as
CXOGC J174516.1-290315. The infrared spectra of both stars exhibit very strong
Br-gamma and He I lines, and resemble those of massive supergiants that have
evolved off of the main sequence, but not yet reached the Wolf-Rayet phase. We
estimate that each star has a bolometric luminosity >10^6 L_sun. The detection
of these two sources in X-rays is surprising, because stars at similar
evolutionary states are not uniformly bright X-ray sources. Therefore, we
suggest that both stars are in binary systems that contain either OB stars
whose winds collide with those of the luminous supergiants, or compact objects
that are accreting from the winds of the supergiants. We also identify X-ray
emission from a nitrogen-type Wolf-Rayet star and place upper limits on the
X-ray luminosities of three more evolved, massive stars that previously have
been identified between 1 and 25 pc from Sgr A*. Finally, we briefly discuss
the implications that future searches for young stars will have for our
understanding of the recent history of star formation near the Galactic center.
(abridged)