Cephalometric analysis has an important role in dentistry and especially in
orthodontics as a treatment planning tool to gauge the size and special
relationships of the teeth, jaws and cranium. The first step of using such
analyses is localizing some important landmarks known as cephalometric
landmarks on craniofacial in x-ray image. The past decade has seen a growing
interest in automating this process. In this paper, a novel hybrid approach is
proposed for automatic detection of cephalometric landmarks. Here, the
landmarks are categorized into three main sets according to their anatomical
characteristics and usage in well-known cephalometric analyses. Consequently,
to have a reliable and accurate detection system, three methods named edge
tracing, weighted template matching, and analysis based estimation are
designed, each of which is consistent and well-suited for one category. Edge
tracing method is suggested to predict those landmarks which are located on
edges. Weighted template matching method is well-suited for landmarks located
in an obvious and specific structure which can be extracted or searchable in a
given x-ray image. The last but not the least method is named analysis based
estimation. This method is based on the fact that in cephalometric analyses the
relations between landmarks are used and the locations of some landmarks are
never used individually. Therefore the third suggested method has a novelty in
estimating the desired relations directly. The effectiveness of the proposed
approach is compared with the state of the art methods and the results were
promising especially in real world applications.