Our HST/NICMOS Pa survey of the Galactic center (GC) provides a uniform,
panoramic, high-resolution map of stars and ionized diffuse gas in the central
416 arcmin^2 of the Galaxy. This survey was carried out with 144 HST orbits
using two narrow-band filters at 1.87 and 1.90 micron in NICMOS Camera 3. In
this paper, we describe in detail the data reduction and mosaicking procedures
followed, including background level matching and astrometric corrections. We
have detected ~570,000 near-IR sources and are able to quantify photometric
uncertainties of the detections. The source detection limit varies across the
survey field but the typical 50% completion limit is ~17th mag (Vega System) in
the 1.90 micron band. A comparison with the expected stellar magnitude
distribution shows that these sources are primarily Main-Sequence massive stars
(>7M) and evolved lower mass stars at the distance of the GC. In particular,
the observed source magnitude distribution exhibits a prominent peak, which
could represent the Red Clump stars within the GC. The observed magnitude and
color of these RC stars support a steep extinction curve in the near-IR toward
the GC. The flux ratios of our detected sources in the two bands also allow for
an adaptive and statistical estimate of extinction across the field. With the
subtraction of the extinction-corrected continuum, we construct a net Pa
emission map and identify a set of Pa-emitting sources, which should mostly be
evolved massive stars with strong stellar winds. The majority of the identified
Pa point sources are located within the three known massive GC stellar
clusters. However, a significant fraction of our Pa-emitting sources are
located outside the clusters and may represent a new class of `field' massive
stars, many of which may have formed in isolation and/or in small groups. The
maps and source catalogues presented here are available electronically.