We study circular geodesic motion of test particles and photons in the
Bardeen and Ayon-Beato-Garcia (ABG) geometry describing spherically symmetric
regular black-hole or no-horizon spacetimes. While the Bardeen geometry is not
exact solution of Einstein's equations, the ABG spacetime is related to
self-gravitating charged sources governed by Einstein's gravity and non-linear
electrodynamics. They both are characterized by the mass parameter $m$ and the
charge parameter $g$. We demonstrate that in similarity to the
Reissner-Nordstrom (RN) naked singularity spacetimes an antigravity static
sphere should exist in all the no-horizon Bardeen and ABG solutions that can be
sorrounded by a Keplerian accretion disc. However, contrary to the RN naked
singularity spacetimes, the ABG no-horizon spacetimes with parameter $g/m > 2$
can contain also an additional inner Keplerian disc hidden under the static
antigravity sphere. Properties of the geodesic structure are reflected by
simple observationally relevant optical phenomena. We give silhouette of the
regular black hole and no-horizon spacetimes, and profiled spectral lines
generated by Keplerian rings radiating at a fixed frequency and located in
strong gravity region at or nearby the marginally stable circular geodesics. We
demonstrate that the profiled spectral lines related to the regular black holes
are qualitatively similar to those of the Schwarzschild black holes, giving
only small quantitative differences. On the other hand, the regular no-horizon
spacetimes give clear qualitative signatures of their presence while compared
to the Schwarschild spacetimes. Moreover, it is possible to distinguish the
Bardeen and ABG no-horizon spacetimes, if the inclination angle to the observer
is known.