We re-analyzed the 9 observations performed on 2006 by XMM-Newton and Chandra
in the 0.3 to 10 keV energy band of NGC 3516 (Seyfert 1.5). The best fit model
of these observations consists of a continuum emission absorbed by four ionized
components and ten narrow emission lines. Three ionized absorbing components
produce features in the soft X-ray band. The fourth ionization component
produces FeXXV-XXVI in the hard- energy band. We study the absorbers time
response to well detect changes in the X-ray luminosity of this source, only
two components show clear opacity changes consistent with gas close to
photoionization equilibrium. The other two components do not seem to respond to
continuum variations. This response time allows us to constrain their location.
One outflowing component must be located within the obscuring torus, at a
distance 2.7X10^17 cm from the central engine, likely originated in the
accretion disk. The three remaining outflowing components are at distances
larger than 10^{16-17} cm. Two of them have similar outflow velocities and
locations, these may be in pressure equilibrium, forming a multi-phase medium,
if the gas has metallicity larger than the solar one (5 times). We find no
correlation between the change in covering factor of the absorbers and the flux
of the source. This, in connection with the observed variability of the ionized
absorbers, suggests that the changes in flux are not produced by this material.
If the variations are indeed produced by obscuring clumps of gas, these must be
located much closer in to the central source.