SN1996cr is one of the five closest SNe to explode in the past 30 years. Due
to its fortuitous location in the Circinus Galaxy at ~ 3.7 Mpc, there is a
wealth of recently acquired and serendipitous archival data available to piece
together its evolution over the past decade, including a recent 485 ks Chandra
HETG spectrum. In order to interpret this data, we have explored hydrodynamic
simulations, followed by computations of simulated spectra and light curves
under non-equilibrium ionization conditions, and directly compared them to the
observations. Our simulated spectra manage to fit both the X-ray continuum and
lines at 4 epochs satisfactorily, while our computed light curves are in good
agreement with additional flux-monitoring data sets. These calculations allow
us to infer the nature and structure of the circumstellar medium, the evolution
of the SN shock wave, and the abundances of the ejecta and surrounding medium.
The data imply that SN 1996cr exploded in a low-density medium before
interacting with a dense shell of material about 0.03pc away from the
progenitor star. We speculate that the shell could be due to the interaction of
a blue supergiant or Wolf-Rayet wind with a previously existing red supergiant
(RSG) wind. The shock wave has now exited the shell and is expanding in the
medium exterior to it, possibly the undisturbed continuation of the dense RSG
wind. The narrow lines that earned SN 1996cr its IIn designation possibly arise
from dense, shocked clumps in the CSM. Although the possibility for an LBV
progenitor for this Type IIn SN cannot be completely excluded, it is
inconsistent with much of the data. These calculations allow us to probe the
stellar mass loss in the very last phases ($ < 10^4$ years) of a massive star's
life ($> 10^6$ years), and provide another means to deducing the progenitor of
the SN.