We study a model of fast magnetic reconnection in the presence of weak
turbulence proposed by Lazarian and Vishniac (1999) using three-dimensional
direct numerical simulations. The model has been already successfully tested in
Kowal et al. (2009) confirming the dependencies of the reconnection speed
$V_{rec}$ on the turbulence injection power $P_{inj}$ and the injection scale
$l_{inj}$ expressed by a constraint $V_{rec} \sim P_{inj}^{1/2} l_{inj}^{3/4}$
and no observed dependency on Ohmic resistivity. In Kowal et al. (2009), in
order to drive turbulence, we injected velocity fluctuations in Fourier space
with frequencies concentrated around $k_{inj}=1/l_{inj}$, as described in
Alvelius (1999). In this paper we extend our previous studies by comparing fast
magnetic reconnection under different mechanisms of turbulence injection by
introducing a new way of turbulence driving. The new method injects velocity or
magnetic eddies with a specified amplitude and scale in random locations
directly in real space. We provide exact relations between the eddy parameters
and turbulent power and injection scale. We performed simulations with new
forcing in order to study turbulent power and injection scale dependencies. The
results show no discrepancy between models with two different methods of
turbulence driving exposing the same scalings in both cases. This is in
agreement with the Lazarian and Vishniac (1999) predictions. In addition, we
performed a series of models with varying viscosity $\nu$. Although Lazarian
and Vishniac (1999) do not provide any prediction for this dependence, we
report a weak relation between the reconnection speed with viscosity,
$V_{rec}\sim\nu^{-1/4}$.