In lieu of direct detection of dark matter, estimation of the distribution of
the gravitational mass in distant galaxies is of crucial importance in
Astrophysics. Typically, such estimation is performed using small samples of
noisy, partially missing measurements - only some of the three components of
the velocity and location vectors of individual particles that live in the
galaxy are measurable. Such limitations of the available data in turn demands
that simplifying model assumptions be undertaken. Thus, assuming that the phase
space of a galaxy manifests simple symmetries - such as isotropy - allows for
the learning of the density of the gravitational mass in galaxies. This is
equivalent to assuming that the phase space $pdf$ from which the velocity and
location vectors of galactic particles are sampled from, is an isotropic
function of these vectors. We present a new non-parametric test of hypothesis
that tests for relative support in two or more measured data sets of disparate
sizes, for the undertaken model assumption that a given set of galactic
particle data is sampled from an isotropic phase space $pdf$s. This test is
designed to work in the context of Bayesian non-parametric, multimodal
inference in a high-dimensional state space. In fact, the different models that
are being compared are characterised by differential dimensionalities of the
model parameter vectors. In addition, there is little prior information
available about the unknown parameters, suggesting uninformative priors on the
parameters in the different models. The problem of model parameter vectors of
distinct dimensionalities and the difficulties of computing Bayes factors in
this context, are circumvented in this test. We illustrate applications of this
test with two independent particle data sets in simulated as well as in a real
galactic system.