A class of harmonic solutions to the steady Euler equations for
incompressible fluids is presented in two dimensions in circular, elliptic and
bipolar coordinates. Since the velocity field is solenoidal in this case, it
can be written as the curl of a vector potential, which will then satisfy
Poisson's equation with vorticity as a source term. In regions with zero
vorticity, Poisson's equation reduces to Laplace's equation, and this allows
for the construction of harmonic potentials inside and outside circles and
ellipses, depending on the coordinate system. The vector potential is normal to
the coordinate plane, and is proportional to the scalar harmonic functions on
the plane, thereby guaranteeing that the velocity field is also harmonic and is
located on the coordinate plane. The components of the velocity field normal to
either a circle or an ellipse are continuous, but the tangential components are
discontinuous, so that, in effect, a vortex sheet is introduced at these
boundaries. This discontinuity is a measure of the vorticity, normal to the
plane and distributed harmonically along the perimeter of the respective
circles or ellipses. An analytic expression for the streamlines is obtained
which makes visualisation of vortices of various geometries and harmonicities
possible. This approach also permits a reformulation of the notion of
multipolarity of vortices in the traditional sense of a multipolar expansion of
the Green's function for Poisson's equation. As an example of the applicability
of this formulation to known vortical structures, Rankine vortices of different
geometries are expressed in terms of harmonic functions.