We present results on Mrk 573 obtained as part of the CHandra survey of
Extended Emission-line Regions in nearby Seyfert galaxies (CHEERS). Previous
studies showed that this source features a biconical emission in the soft X-ray
band closely related with the Narrow Line Region as mapped by the [O iii]
emission line and the radio emission, though on a smaller scale; we investigate
the properties of soft X-ray emission from this source with new deep Chandra
observations. Making use of the subpixel resolution of the Chandra/ACIS image
and PSF-deconvolution, we resolve and study substructures in each ionizing
cone. The two cone spectra are fitted with photoionization model, showing a
mildly photoionized phase diffused over the bicone. Thermal collisional gas at
about ~ 1.1 keV and ~ 0.8 keV appears to be located between the nucleus and the
"knots" resolved in radio observations, and between the "arcs" resolved in the
optical images, respectively; this can be interpreted in terms of shock
interaction with the host galactic plane. The nucleus shows a significant flux
decrease across the observations indicating variability of the AGN, with the
nuclear region featuring higher ionization parameter with respect to the bicone
region. The long exposure allows us to find extended emission up to ~ 7 kpc
from the nucleus along the bicone axis. Significant emission is also detected
in the direction perpendicular to the ionizing cones, disagreeing with the
fully obscuring torus prescribed in the AGN unified model, and suggesting
instead the presence of a clumpy structure.