We report the discovery of a cluster of galaxies in the field of UM425, a
pair of quasars separated by 6.5arcsec. Based on this finding, we revisit the
long-standing question of whether this quasar pair is a binary quasar or a
wide-separation lens. Previous work has shown that both quasars are at z=1.465
and show broad absorption lines. No evidence for a lensing galaxy has been
found between the quasars, but there were two hints of a foreground cluster:
diffuse X-ray emission observed with Chandra, and an excess of faint galaxies
observed with the Hubble Space Telescope. Here we show, via VLT spectroscopy,
that there is a spike in the redshift histogram of galaxies at z=0.77. We
estimate the chance of finding a random velocity structure of such significance
to be about 5%, and thereby interpret the diffuse X-ray emission as originating
from z=0.77, rather than the quasar redshift. The mass of the cluster, as
estimated from either the velocity dispersion of the z=0.77 galaxies or the
X-ray luminosity of the diffuse emission, would be consistent with the
theoretical mass required for gravitational lensing. The positional offset
between the X-ray centroid and the expected location of the mass centroid is
about 40kpc, which is not too different from offsets observed in lower redshift
clusters. However, UM425 would be an unusual gravitational lens, by virtue of
the absence of a bright primary lensing galaxy. Unless the mass-to-light ratio
of the galaxy is at least 80 times larger than usual, the lensing hypothesis
requires that the galaxy group or cluster plays a uniquely important role in
producing the observed deflections.
  Based on observations performed with the Very Large Telescope at the European
Southern Observatory, Paranal, Chile.