It is well known that the increase of the spatial dimensionality enhances the
fluid-fluid demixing of a binary mixture of hard hyperspheres, i.e. the
demixing occurs for lower mixture size asymmetry as compared to the
three-dimensional case. However, according to simulations, in the latter
dimension the fluid-fluid demixing is metastable with respect to the
fluid-solid transition. According to the results obtained from approximations
to the equation of state of hard hyperspheres in higher dimensions, the
fluid-fluid demixing might becomes stable for high enough dimension. However,
this conclusion is rather speculative since none of the above works have taken
into account the stability of the crystalline phase (nor by a minimization of a
given density functional, neither spinodal calculations or MC simulations). Of
course, the lack of results is justified by the difficulty for performing
density functional calculations or simulations in high dimensions and, in
particular, for highly asymmetric binary mixtures. In the present work, we will
take advantage of a well tested theoretical tool, namely the fundamental
measure density functional theory for parallel hard hypercubes (in the
continuum and in the hypercubic lattice). With this, we have calculated the
fluid-fluid and fluid-solid spinodals for different spatial dimensions. We have
obtained, no matter of the dimensionality, the mixture size asymmetry nor the
polydispersity (included as a bimodal distribution function centered around the
asymmetric edge-lengths), that the fluid-fluid critical point is always located
above the fluid-solid spinodal. In conclusion, these results point to the
existence of demixing between at least one solid phase rich in large particles
and one fluid phase rich in small ones, preempting a fluid-fluid demixing,
independently of the spatial dimension or the polydispersity.