High-sensitivity radio-frequency observations of millisecond pulsars usually
show stochastic, broadband, pulse-shape variations intrinsic to the pulsar
emission process. These variations induce jitter noise in pulsar timing
observations; understanding the properties of this noise is of particular
importance for the effort to detect gravitational waves with pulsar timing
arrays. We assess the short-term profile and timing stability of 22 millisecond
pulsars that are part of the Parkes Pulsar Timing Array sample by examining
intra-observation arrival time variability and single-pulse phenomenology. In 7
of the 22 pulsars, in the band centred at approximately 1400MHz, we find that
the brightest observations are limited by intrinsic jitter. We find consistent
results, either detections or upper limits, for jitter noise in other frequency
bands. PSR J1909-3744 shows the lowest levels of jitter noise, which we
estimate to contribute $\sim$10 ns root mean square error to the arrival times
for hour-duration observations. Larger levels of jitter noise are found in
pulsars with wider pulses and distributions of pulse intensities. The jitter
noise in PSR J0437-4715 decorrelates over a bandwidth of $\sim$2 GHz. We show
that the uncertainties associated with timing pulsar models can be improved by
including physically motivated jitter uncertainties. Pulse-shape variations
will limit the timing precision at future, more sensitive, telescopes; it is
imperative to account for this noise when designing instrumentation and timing
campaigns for these facilities.