Depending on references of the World Health Organization there is large
numbers of sick persons with different diseases worldwide, and without succor
at a suitable time this could lead to fatality of the patients. This paper
offers a succoring system controlled by the patient based on the location of
patients. The proposed system is the first tracking system using mobile GIS
based on WCF technology to offer online succoring (24 hour a day), but really
works only when the patient sends request for succoring. The patients will send
a request (SMS by click one button) contains his ID, Longitude and Latitude via
GPRS network to a web server containing a database, which the patient was
registered previously on it. Then the server will locate the patient on Google
map and retrieve the patient's information from the database. This information
will be used by the server to send succoring facility and notify the nearest
and most suitable ESC; moreover, the server will send SMS over IP to inform the
patient emergency contacts and emergency hospital. The optimal productivity for
proposed succoring system appears in handling a large number of requests within
short period at rate of one request/need succoring per sec as result of using
mobile GIS based on WCF technology. Furthermore, the process of request and
reply for emergency cases of the patients achieved in costeffective way due to
this technology, which allow sending data (SMS over IP) via Internet using GPRS
network. The proposed system can be implemented in a minimum configuration
(hardware and software) to minimize the overall cost of operation and
manufacturing. Keywords- WCF; WPF; Build-in GPS; GPRS; Mobile GIS; SoIP;
Tracking System; Google Maps API.