We used the newly developed thermal plus bulk Comptonization model comptb to
investigate the spectral evolution of the neutron star LMXB Cyg X-2 along its
Z-track. We selected a single source in order to trace in a quantitative way
the evolution of the physical parameters of the model. We analyzed archival
broad-band BeppoSAX spectra of Cyg X-2. Five broad-band spectra have been newly
extracted according to the source position in the Z-track described in the
colour-colour and colour-intensity diagrams. We have fitted the spectra of the
source with two comptb components. The first one, with bulk parameter delta=0,
dominates the overall source broad-band spectrum and its origin is related to
thermal upscattering (Comptonization) of cold seed photons off warm electrons
in high-opacity enviroment. We attribute the origin of these seed photons to
the part of the disk which illuminates the outer coronal region (transition
layer) located between the accretion disk itself and the neutron star surface.
This thermal component is roughly constant with time and with inferred mass
accretion rate. The second comptb model describes the overall Comptonization
(thermal plus bulk, delta > 0) of hotter seed photons which come from both the
inner transition layer and from the neutron star surface. The appearance of
this component in the colour-colour or hardness-intensity diagram is more
pronounced in the horizontal branch and is progressively disappearing towards
the normal branch, where a pure blackbody spectrum is observed. The spectral
evolution of Cyg X-2 is studied and interpreted in terms of changes in the
innermost environmental conditions of the system, leading to a variable
thermal-bulk Comptonization efficiency.