We present Keck Interferometer observations of T Tauri and Herbig Ae/Be stars
with a spatial resolution of a few milliarcseconds and a spectral resolution of
~2000. Our observations span the K-band, and include the Br gamma transition of
Hydrogen and the v=2-0 and v=3-1 transitions of carbon monoxide. For several
targets we also present data from Keck/NIRSPEC that provide higher spectral
resolution, but a seeing-limited spatial resolution, of the same spectral
features. We analyze the Br gamma emission in the context of both disk and
infall/outflow models, and conclude that the Br gamma emission traces gas at
very small stellocentric radii, consistent with the magnetospheric scale.
However some Br gamma-emitting gas also seems to be located at radii of >0.1
AU, perhaps tracing the inner regions of magnetically launched outflows. CO
emission is detected from several objects, and we generate disk models that
reproduce both the KI and NIRSPEC data well. We infer the CO spatial
distribution to be coincident with the distribution of continuum emission in
most cases. Furthermore the Br gamma emission in these objects is roughly
coincident with both the CO and continuum emission. We present potential
explanations for the spatial coincidence of continuum, Br gamma, and CO
overtone emission, and explore the implications for the low occurrence rate of
CO overtone emission in young stars. Finally, we provide additional discussion
of V1685 Cyg, which is unusual among our sample in showing large differences in
emitting region size and spatial position as a function of wavelength.