Automatic Repeat Request (ARQ) is an effective technique for reliable
transmission of packets in wireless networks. In ARQ, however, only a few
erroneous bits in a packet will cause the entire packet to be discarded at the
receiver. In this case, it's wasteful to retransmit the correct bit in the
received packet. The partial packet recovery only retransmits the unreliable
decoded bits in order to increase the throughput of network. In addition, the
cooperative transmission based on Interleave-division multiple-access (IDMA)
can obtain diversity gains with multiple relays with different locations for
multiple sources simultaneously. By exploring the diversity from the channel
between relay and destination, we propose a relay-assisted partial packet
recovery in CDMA wireless network to improve the performance of throughput. In
the proposed scheme, asynchronous IDMA iterative chip-by-chip multiuser
detection is utilized as a method of multiple partial recovery, which can be a
complementarity in a current CDMA network. The confidence values' concept is
applied to detect unreliable decoded bits. According to the result of
unreliable decoded bits' position, we use a recursive algorithm based on cost
evaluation to decide a feedback strategy. Then the feedback request with
minimum cost can be obtained. The simulation results show that the performance
of throughput can be significantly improved with our scheme, compared with
traditional ARQ scheme. The upper bound with our scheme is provided in our
simulation. Moreover, we show how relays' location affects the performance.