Between 2008/3/24 and 2008/4/2, the three active regions NOAA active regions
10987, 10988 and 10989 were observed daily by the Synoptic Optical Long-term
Investigations of the Sun (SOLIS) Vector Spectro-Magnetograph (VSM) while they
traversed the solar disk. We use these measurements and the nonlinear
force-free magnetic field code XTRAPOL to reconstruct the coronal magnetic
field for each active region and compare model field lines with images from the
Solar Terrestrial RElations Observatory (STEREO) and Hinode X-ray Telescope
(XRT) telescopes. Synoptic maps made from continuous, round-the-clock Global
Oscillations Network Group (GONG) magnetograms provide information on the
global photospheric field and potential-field source-surface models based on
these maps describe the global coronal field during the Whole Heliospheric
Interval (WHI) and its neighboring rotations. Features of the modeled global
field, such as the coronal holes and streamer belt locations, are discussed in
comparison with extreme ultra-violet and coronagraph observations from STEREO.
The global field is found to be far from a minimum, dipolar state. From the
nonlinear models we compute physical quantities for the active regions such as
the photospheric magnetic and electric current fluxes, the free magnetic energy
and the relative helicity for each region each day where observations permit.
The interconnectivity of the three regions is addressed in the context of the
potential-field source-surface model. Using local and global quantities derived
from the models, we briefly discuss the different observed activity levels of
the regions.