The degrees of freedom (DoF) number of the fully connected K-user Gaussian
interference channel is known to be K/2. In [1], the DoF for the same channel
model was studied while allowing each message to be available at its own
transmitter as well as M-1 successive transmitters. In particular, it was shown
that the DoF gain through cooperation does not scale with the number of users K
for a fixed value of M, i.e., the per user DoF number is 1/2 . In this work, we
relax the cooperation constraint such that each message can be assigned to M
transmitters without imposing further constraints on their location. Under the
new constraint, we study properties for different message assignments in terms
of the gain in the per user DoF number over that achieved without cooperation.
In particular, we show that a local cooperation constraint that confines the
transmit set of each message within a o(K) radius cannot achieve a per user DoF
number that is greater than 1/2. Moreover, we show that the same conclusion
about the per user DoF number holds for any assignment of messages such that
each message cannot be available at more than two transmitters. Finally, for
the case where M > 2, we do not know whether a per user DoF number that is
greater than 1/2 is achievable. However, we identify a candidate class of
message assignments that could potentially lead to a positive answer. [1] V. S.
Annapureddy, A. El Gamal, and V. V. Veervalli, "Degrees of Freedom of
Interference Channels with CoMP Transmission and Reception," Submitted to IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory, Sep. 2011