The evolution of the physical parameters of magnetic bright points (MBPs)
located in the quiet Sun (mainly in the interwork) during their lifetime is
studied. First we concentrate on the detailed description of the magnetic field
evolution of three MBPs. This reveals that individual features follow
different, generally complex, and rather dynamic scenarios of evolution. Next
we apply statistical methods on roughly 200 observed MBP evolutionary tracks.
MBPs are found to be formed by the strengthening of an equipartition field
patch, which initially exhibits a moderate downflow. During the evolution,
strong downdrafts with an average velocity of 2.4 km/s set in. These flows,
taken together with the concurrent strengthening of the field, suggest that we
are witnessing the occurrence of convective collapses in these features,
although only 30% of them reach kG field strengths. This fraction might turn
out to be larger when the new 4 m class solar telescopes are operational as
observations of MBPs with current state of the art instrumentation could still
be suffering from resolution limitations. Finally, when the bright point
disappears (although the magnetic field often continues to exist) the magnetic
field strength has dropped to the equipartition level and is generally somewhat
weaker than at the beginning of the MBP's evolution. Noteworthy is that in
about 10% of the cases we observe in the vicinity of the downflows small-scale
strong (exceeding 2 km/s) intergranular upflows related spatially and
temporally to these downflows.