The Hipparcos Intermediate Astrometric Data for carbon stars have been
reprocessed using an algorithm which provides an objective criterion for
rejecting anomalous data points and constrains the parallax to be positive. New
parallax solutions have been derived for 317 cool carbon stars, mostly of types
R and N. In this paper we discuss the results for the R stars. The most
important result is that the early R stars (i.e., R0 - R3) have absolute
magnitudes and V-K colors locating them among red clump giants in the
Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. Stars with subtypes R4 - R9 tend to be cooler and
have similar luminosity to the N-type carbon stars, as confirmed by their
position in the (J-H, H-K) color-color diagram. The sample of early R-type
stars selected from the Hipparcos Catalogue appears to be approximately
complete to magnitude K_0 ~ 7, translating into a completeness distance of 600
pc if all R stars had M_K= -2 (400 pc if M_K= -1). With about 30 early R-type
stars in that volume, they comprise about 0.04% (0.14% for M_K= -1) of the red
clump stars in the solar neighborhood. Identification with the red clump
locates these stars at the helium core burning stage of stellar evolution,
while the N stars are on the asymptotic giant branch, where helium shell
burning occurs. The present analysis suggests that for a small fraction of the
helium core burning stars (far lower than the fraction of helium shell-burning
stars), carbon produced in the interior is mixed to the atmosphere in
sufficient quantities to form a carbon star.