We present mid infrared (Mid-IR) spectra of the Compton-thick Seyfert 2
galaxy NGC\,3281, obtained with the Thermal-Region Camera Spectrograph (T-ReCS)
at the Gemini South telescope. The spectra present a very deep silicate
absorption at 9.7\,$\mu$m, and [S{\sc\,iv]}\,10.5\,$\mu$m and
[Ne{\sc\,ii]}\,12.7\,$\mu$m ionic lines, but no evidence of PAH emission. We
find that the nuclear optical extinction is in the range 24 $\leq$ A$_{V}$
$\leq$ 83\,mag. A temperature T = 300\,K was found for the black-body dust
continuum component of the unresolved 65\,pc nucleus and at 130\,pc SE, while
the region at 130\,pc reveals a colder temperature (200\,K). We describe the
nuclear spectrum of NGC\,3281 using a clumpy torus model that suggests that the
nucleus of this galaxy hosts a dusty toroidal structure. According to this
model, the ratio between the inner and outer radius of the torus in NGC\,3281
is $R_0/R_d$ = 20, with {\bf 14} clouds in the equatorial radius with optical
depth of $\tau_{V}$ = 40\,mag. We would be looking in the direction of the
torus equatorial radius ($i$ = {\bf 60$^{\circ}$}), which has outer radius of
R$_{0}\,\sim$ 11\,pc. The column density is N$_{H}\approx$\,{\bf
1.2}\,$\times\,10^{24}\,cm^{-2}$ and iron K$\alpha$ equivalent width ($\approx$
0.5 - 1.2\,keV) are used to check the torus geometry. Our findings indicate
that the X-ray absorbing column density, which classifies NGC\,3281 as a
Compton-thick source, may also be responsible for the absorption at 9.7\,$\mu$m
providing strong evidence that the silicate dust responsible for this
absorption can be located in the AGN torus.