So far, 24 Isolated neutron stars (INSs) of different types have been
identified at optical wavelengths, from the classical radio pulsars to more
peculiar objects, like the magnetars. Most identifications have been obtained
in the last 20 years thanks to the deployment of modern technology telescopes,
above all the HST, but also the NTT and, later, the 8m-class telescopes like
the VLT. The larger identification rate has increased the impact factor of
optical observations in the multi-wavelength approach to INS astronomy, opening
interesting possibilities for studies not yet possible at other wavelengths.
With the HST on the way to its retirement, 8m class telescopes will have the
task of bridging neutron star optical astronomy into a new era, characterised
by the advent of the generation of extremely large telescopes (ELTs), like the
European ELT (E-ELT). This will mark a major step forward in the field,
enabling one to identify many more INSs, many of which from follow-ups of
observations performed with future radio and X-ray megastruscture facilities
like SKA and IXO. Moreover, the E-ELT will make it possible to carry out
observations, like timing, spectroscopy, and polarimetry, which still represent
a challenge for 8m-class telescopes and are, in many respects, crucial for
studies on the structure and composition of the neutron star interior and of
its magnetosphere. In this contribution, I briefly summarise the current status
of INS optical observations, describe the main science goals for the E-ELT, and
their impact on neutron star physics.