We present evidence for cosmic ray acceleration at the forward shock in
Tycho's supernova remnant (SNR) from three X-ray observables: (1) the proximity
of the contact discontinuity to the forward shock, or blast wave, (2) the
morphology of the emission from the rim of Tycho, and (3) the spectral nature
of the rim emission. We determine the locations of the blast wave (BW), contact
discontinuity (CD), and reverse shock (RS) around the rim of Tycho's supernova
remnant using a principal component analysis and other methods applied to new
Chandra data. The azimuthal-angle-averaged radius of the BW is 251". For the CD
and RS we find average radii of 241" and 183", respectively. Taking account of
projection effects, we find ratios of 1:0.93:0.70 (BW:CD:RS). We show these
values to be inconsistent with adiabatic hydrodynamical models of SNR
evolution. The CD:BW ratio can be explained if cosmic ray acceleration of ions
is occurring at the forward shock. The RS:BW ratio, as well as the strong Fe Ka
emission from the Tycho ejecta, imply that the RS is not accelerating cosmic
rays. We also extract radial profiles from ~34% of the rim of Tycho and compare
them to models of surface brightness profiles behind the BW for a purely
thermal plasma with an adiabatic shock. The observed morphology of the rim is
much more strongly peaked than predicted by the model, indicating that such
thermal emission is implausible here. Spectral analysis also implies that the
rim emission is non-thermal in nature, lending further support to the idea that
Tycho's forward shock is accelerating cosmic rays.