We present high spectral resolution mid-IR observations of SiS towards the
C-rich AGB star IRC+10216 carried out with the Texas Echelon-cross-Echelle
Spectrograph mounted on the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility. We have
identified 204 ro-vibrational lines of 28Si32S, 26 of 29Si32S, 20 of 28Si34S,
and 15 of 30Si32S in the frequency range 720-790 cm-1. These lines belong to
bands v=1-0, 2-1, 3-2, 4-3, and 5-4, and involve rotational levels with
Jlow<90. About 30 per cent of these lines are unblended or weakly blended and
can be partially or entirely fitted with a code developed to model the mid-IR
emission of a spherically symmetric circumstellar envelope composed of
expanding gas and dust. The observed lines trace the envelope at distances to
the star <35R* (~0.7 arcsec). The fits are compatible with an expansion
velocity of 1+2.5(r/R*-1) km/s between 1 and 5R*, 11 km/s between 5 and 20R*,
and 14.5 km/s outwards. The derived abundance profile of 28Si32S with respect
to H2 is 4.9e-6 between the stellar photosphere and 5R*, decreasing linearly to
1.6e-6 at 20R* and to 1.3e-6 at 50R*. 28Si32S seems to be rotationally under
LTE in the region of the envelope probed with our observations and
vibrationally out of LTE in most of it. There is a red-shifted emission excess
in the 28Si32S lines of band v=1-0 that cannot be found in the lines of bands
v=2-1, 3-2, 4-3, and 5-4. This excess could be explained by an enhancement of
the vibrational temperature around 20R* behind the star. The derived isotopic
ratios 28Si/29Si, and 32S/34S are 17 and 14, compatible with previous
estimates.