Background: Models to calculate small isospin-symmetry-breaking effects in
superallowed Fermi decays have been placed under scrutiny in recent years. A
stringent test of these models is to measure transitions for which the
correction is predicted to be large. The decay of 32Cl decay provides such a
test case. Purpose: To improve the gamma yields following the beta decay of
32Cl and to determine the ft values of the the beta branches, particularly the
one to the isobaric-analogue state in 32S. Method: Reaction-produced and
recoil-spectrometer-separated 32Cl is collected in tape and transported to a
counting location where beta-gamma coincidences are measured with a
precisely-calibrated HPGe detector. Results: The precision on the gamma yields
for most of the known beta branches has been improved by about an order of
magnitude, and many new transitions have been observed. We have determined
32Cl-decay transition strengths extending up to E_x~11 MeV. The ft value for
the decay to the isobaric-analogue state in 32S has been measured. A comparison
to a shell-model calculation shows good agreement. CONCLUSIONS: We have
experimentally determined the isospin-symmetry-breaking correction to the
superallowed transition of this decay to be (\delta_C-\delta_NS)_exp=5.4(9)%,
significantly larger than for any other known superallowed Fermi transition.
This correction agrees with a shell-model calculation, which yields
\delta_C-\delta_NS=4.8(5)%. Our results also provide a way to improve the
measured ft values for the beta decay of 32Ar.