We studied and compared the long-term average hard X-ray (>20keV) spectra of
a sample of twelve bright low-mass X-ray binaries hosting a neutron star (NS).
Our sample comprises the six well studied Galactic Z sources and six Atoll
sources, four of which are bright ("GX") bulge sources while two are weaker
ones in the 2-10keV range (H1750-440 and H1608-55). For all the sources of our
sample, we analysed available public data and extracted average spectra from
the IBIS/ISGRI detector on board INTEGRAL. We can describe all the spectral
states in terms of the bulk motion Comptonisation scenario. We find evidence
that bulk motion is always present, its strength is related to the accretion
rate and it is suppressed only in the presence of high local luminosity. The
two low-dim Atoll source spectra are dominated by photons up-scattered
presumably due to dynamical and thermal Comptonisation in an optically thin,
hot plasma. For the first time, we extend the detection of H1750-440 up to
150keV. The Z and bright "GX" Atoll source spectra are very similar and are
dominated by Comptonised blackbody radiation of seed photons, presumably coming
from the accretion disc and NS surface, in an optically thick cloud with plasma
temperature in the range of 2.5-3keV. Six sources show a hard tail in their
average spectrum: CygX-2 (Z), GX340+0 (Z), GX17+2 (Z), GX5-1 (Z), ScoX-1 (Z)
and GX13+1 (Atoll). This is the first detection of a hard tail in the X-ray
spectrum of the peculiar GX13+1. Using radio data from the literature we find,
in all Z sources and bright "GX" Atolls, a systematic positive correlation
between the X-ray hard tail (40-100keV) and the radio luminosity. This suggests
that hard tails and energetic electrons causing the radio emission may have the
same origin, most likely the Compton cloud located inside the NS magnetosphere.