Atomic-level polarization and Zeeman effect diagnostics in the neutral helium
triplet at 10830 angstroms in principle allow full vector magnetometry of
fine-scaled chromospheric fibrils. We present high-resolution
spectropolarimetric observations of superpenumbral fibrils in the He I triplet
with sufficient polarimetric sensitivity to infer their full magnetic field
geometry. He I observations from the Facility Infrared Spectropolarimeter
(FIRS) are paired with high-resolution observations of the Halpha 6563
angstroms and Ca II 8542 angstroms spectral lines from the Interferometric
Bidimensional Spectrometer (IBIS) from the Dunn Solar Telescope in New Mexico.
Linear and circular polarization signatures in the He I triplet are measured
and described, as well as analyzed with the advanced inversion capability of
the "Hanle and Zeeman Light" (HAZEL) modeling code. Our analysis provides
direct evidence for the often assumed field alignment of fibril structures. The
projected angle of the fibrils and the inferred magnetic field geometry align
within an error of plus or minus 10 degrees. We describe changes in the
inclination angle of these features that reflect their connectivity with the
photospheric magnetic field. Evidence for an accelerated flow (approx 40 m/s^2)
along an individual fibril anchored at its endpoints in the strong sunspot and
weaker plage in part supports the magnetic siphon-flow mechanism's role in the
inverse Evershed effect. However, the connectivity of the outer endpoint of
many of the fibrils cannot be established.