Recent direct imaging observations have revealed spiral structure in
protoplanetary disks. Previous studies have suggested that planet-induced
spiral arms cannot explain these spiral patterns, as 1) the pitch angle of the
spiral arm is larger in observations than that predicted by the linear density
wave theory, 2) the contrast of the spiral arm is higher in observations than
in synthetic observations based on two dimensional planet-disk simulations. We
have carried out three dimensional (3-D) hydrodynamical simulations to study
spiral wakes/shocks excited by young planets. We find that, in contrast with
linear theory, the pitch angle of spiral arms does depend on the planet mass,
which can be explained by the non-linear density wave theory. The more massive
is the planet, the larger pitch angle the spiral arm has. A secondary spiral
arm, especially for the inner arms, is also excited by the planet. The more
massive is the planet, the larger is the separation in the azimuthal direction
between the primary and secondary arms. We also find that although the arms in
the outer disk do not exhibit much vertical motion, the inner arms have
significant vertical motion, which boosts the density perturbation at the disk
atmosphere by more than a factor of 10 compared with that at the disk midplane.
Combining hydrodynamical models with Monte-Carlo radiative transfer
calculations, we find that the inner spiral arms are considerably more
prominent in synthetic near-IR images using full 3-D hydrodynamical models than
images based on 2-D models, indicating the need to model observations with full
3-D hydrodynamics. Overall, spiral arms (especially inner arms) excited by
planetary-mass objects are prominent features that are observable by current
near-IR imaging facilities, and the shape of the spiral arms informs us not
only about the position but also about the mass of the companion.