Active galactic nuclei host an accretion disc with an X-ray producing corona
around a supermassive black hole. In bright sources, such as the Seyfert 1
galaxy Mrk 335, reflection of the coronal emission off the accretion disc has
been observed. Reflection produces spectral features such as an Fe K$\alpha$
emission line, which allow for properties of the inner accretion disc and the
corona to be constrained. We perform a multi-epoch spectral analysis of all
XMM-Newton, Suzaku, and NuSTAR observations of Mrk 335, and we optimize our
fitting procedure to unveil correlations between the Eddington ratio and the
spectral parameters. We find that the disc's ionization parameter correlates
strongly with the Eddington ratio: the inner disc is more strongly ionized at
higher flux. The slope of the correlation is less steep than previously
predicted. Furthermore, the cut-off of the power-law spectrum increases in
energy with the Eddington ratio, whereas the reflection fraction exhibits a
decrease. We interpret this behaviour as geometrical changes of the corona as a
function of the accretion rate. Below ~10% of the Eddington limit, the compact
and optically thick corona is located close to the inner disc, whereas at
higher accretion rates the corona is likely optically thin and extends
vertically further away from the disc surface. Furthermore, we find a soft
excess that consists of two components. In addition to a contribution from
reflection in low ionization states, a second component is present that traces
the overall flux.