Analysis of spatially resolved ASCA spectra of the intracluster gas in Abell
496 confirms there are mild metal abundance enhancements near the center, as
previously found by White et al. (1994) in a joint analysis of Ginga LAC and
Einstein SSS spectra. Simultaneous analysis of spectra from all ASCA
instruments (SIS + GIS) shows that the iron abundance is 0.36 +- 0.03 solar
3-12' from the center of the cluster and rises ~50% to 0.53 +- 0.04 solar
within the central 2'. The F-test shows that this abundance gradient is
significant at the >99.99% level. Nickel and sulfur abundances are also
centrally enhanced. We use a variety of elemental abundance ratios to assess
the relative contribution of SN Ia and SN II to the metal enrichment of the
intracluster gas. We find spatial gradients in several abundance ratios,
indicating that the fraction of iron from SN Ia increases toward the cluster
center, with SN Ia accounting for ~50% of the iron mass 3-12' from the center
and ~70% within 2'. The increased proportion of SN Ia ejecta at the center is
such that the central iron abundance enhancement can be attributed wholly to SN
Ia; we find no significant gradient in SN II ejecta. These spatial gradients in
the proportion of SN Ia/II ejecta imply that the dominant metal enrichment
mechanism near the center is different than in the outer parts of the cluster.
We show that the central abundance enhancement is unlikely to be due to ram
pressure stripping of gas from cluster galaxies, or to secularly accumulated
stellar mass loss within the central cD. We suggest that the additional SN Ia
ejecta near the center is the vestige of a secondary SN Ia-driven wind from the
cD (following a more energetic protogalactic SN II-driven wind phase), which
was partially smothered in the cD due to its location at the cluster center.