We analyze in detail the peculiar velocity field traced by 56 clusters within
120 h^-1 Mpc in the Streaming Motions of Abell Clusters (SMAC) sample. The bulk
flow of the SMAC sample is 687 +- 203 km/s, toward l = 260 +- 13, b = 0 +- 11.
We discuss possible systematic errors and show that no systematic effect is
larger than half of the random error. The flow does not drop off significantly
with depth, which suggests that it is generated by structures on large scales.
In particular, a Great Attractor as originally proposed by Lynden-Bell et al.
cannot be responsible for the SMAC bulk flow. The SMAC data suggest infall into
an attractor at the location of the Shapley Concentration, but the detection is
marginal (at the 90% confidence level). We find that distant attractors in
addition to the Shapley Concentration are required to explain the SMAC bulk
flow. A comparison with peculiar velocities predicted from the IRAS PSCz
redshift survey shows good agreement with a best fit value of Beta_I =
Omega^0.6/b_I = 0.39 +- 0.17. However, the PSCz density field is not sufficient
to acount for all of the SMAC bulk motion. We also detect, at the 98%
confidence level, a residual bulk flow of 372 +- 127 km/s toward l = 273, b = 6
which must be generated by sources not included in the PSCz catalogue, that is,
either beyond 200 h^-1 Mpc, in the Zone of Avoidance or in superclusters
undersampled by IRAS. Finally, we compare the SMAC bulk flow with other recent
measurements. We suggest that a bulk flow of 225 km/s toward l = 300, b = 10 at
depths greater than 60 h^-1 Mpc is consistent with all peculiar velocity
surveys, when allowance is made for sparse sampling effects. (abridged)