The evolutionary state of blue supergiants is still unknown. Stellar wind
mass loss is one of the dominant processes determining the evolution of massive
stars, and it may provide clues on the evolutionary properties of blue
supergiants. As the H$\alpha$ line is the most oft-used mass-loss tracer in the
OB-star regime, we provide a detailed analysis of the H$\alpha$ line for OB
supergiant models over an $T_{\rm eff}$ range between 30000 and 12500K. We find
a maximum in the H$\alpha$ equivalent width at 22500 K - at the location of the
bi-stability jump. The H$\alpha$ line-profile behaviour is characterised by two
branches of $T_{\rm eff}$: (i) a "hot" branch between 30000 and 22500 K, where
H$\alpha$ emission becomes stronger with decreasing $T_{\rm eff}$, and (ii) a
"cool" branch between 22500 and 12500 K, where the line becomes weaker. Our
models show that this non-monotonic H$\alpha$ behaviour is related to the
optical depth of Ly$\alpha$, finding that at the "cool" branch the population
of the 2nd level of hydrogen is enhanced in comparison to the 3rd level. This
is expected to increase line absorption, leading to weaker H$\alpha$ flux when
$T_{\rm eff}$ drops from 22500 K downwards. We also show that for late B
supergiants (at $T_{\rm eff}$ below ~15000 K), the differences in the H$\alpha$
line between homogeneous and clumpy winds becomes insignificant. Moreover, we
show that at the bi-stability jump H$\alpha$ changes its character completely,
from an optically thin to an optically thick line, implying that macro-clumping
should play an important role at temperatures below the bi-stability jump. This
would not only have consequences for the character of observed H$\alpha$ line
profiles, but also for the reported discrepancies between theoretical and
empirical mass-loss rates.