We constructed the composite luminosity function (LF) of clusters of galaxies
in the five SDSS photometric bands u,g,r,i and z from the RASS-SDSS galaxy
cluster catalog. Background and foreground galaxies are subtracted using both a
local and a global background correction to take in account the presence of
large scale structures and variations from field to field, respectively. The
composite LF clearly shows two components: a bright-end LF with a classical
slope of -1.25 in each photometric band, and a faint-end LF much steeper (-2.1
<= \alpha <= -1.6) in the dwarf galaxy region. The observed upturn of the faint
galaxies has a location ranging from -16 +5log(h) in the g band to -18.5
+5log(h) in the z band. To study the universality of the cluster LF we compare
the individual cluster LFs with the composite luminosity function. We notice
that, in agreement with the composite LF, a single Schechter component is not a
good fit for the majority of the clusters. We fit a Schechter function to the
bright-end of the individual clusters LFs in the magnitude region brighter than
the observed upturn of the dwarf galaxies. We observe that the distributions of
the derived parameters is close to a Gaussian around the value of the composite
bright-end LF parameters with a dispersion compatible with the statistical
errors. We conclude that the bright-end of the galaxy clusters is universal. To
study the behavior of the individual faint-end LF we define the Dwarf to Giant
galaxy Ratio (DGR) of the single clusters. We notice that the distribution of
DGR has a spread much larger than the statistical errors. Our conclusion is
that the cluster luminosity function is not universal since the cluster
faint-end, differently from the bright-end, varies from cluster to cluster.