Ever since its inception four decades back, Balloon Facility of Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Hyderabad has been functioning with
the needs of its user scientists at its focus. During the early nineties, when
the X-ray astronomy group at TIFR expressed the need for balloons capable of
carrying the X-ray telescopes to altitudes up to 42 km, the balloon group
initiated research and development work on indigenous balloon grade films in
various thickness not only for the main experiment but also in parallel, took
up the development of thin films in thickness range 5 to 6 microns for
fabrication of sounding balloons required for probing the stratosphere up to 42
km as the regular 2000 grams rubber balloon ascents could not reach altitudes
higher than 38 km. By the year 1999, total indigenisation of sounding balloon
manufacture was accomplished. The work on balloon grade ultra-thin polyethylene
film in thickness range 2.8 to 3.8 microns for fabrication of balloons capable
of penetrating mesosphere to meet the needs of user scientists working in the
area of atmospheric dynamics commenced in 2011. Pursuant to the successful
trials with 61,000 cu.m balloon made of 3.8 microns Antrix film reaching
stratopause (48 km) for the first time in the history of balloon facility in
the year 2012, fine tuning of launch parameters like percentage free lift was
carried out to take the same volume balloons to higher mesospheric altitudes.
Three successful flights with a total suspended load of 10 kg using 61,000 cu.m
balloons were carried out in the month of January 2014 and all the three
balloons crossed in to the mesosphere reaching altitudes of over 51 km. All the
balloons flown so far are closed system with no escape ducts. Balloon
fabrication, development of launch hardware, flight control instruments and
launch technique for these mesospheric balloon flights are discussed in this
paper.