We present abundances of several light, alpha, Fe-peak, and neutron-capture
elements for 66 red giant branch (RGB) stars in the Galactic globular cluster
Omega Centauri. Our observations lie in the range 12.0<V<13.5 and focus on the
intermediate and metal-rich RGBs. We find that there are at least four peaks in
the metallicity distribution function at [Fe/H]=-1.75, -1.45, -1.05, and -0.75,
which correspond to about 55%, 30%, 10%, and 5% of our sample, respectively.
Additionally, the most metal-rich stars are the most centrally located. Na and
Al are correlated despite exhibiting star-to-star dispersions of more than a
factor of 10, but the distribution of those elements appears to be metallicity
dependent and are divided at [Fe/H]~-1.2. About 40-50% of stars with
[Fe/H]<-1.2 have Na and Al abundances consistent with production solely in Type
II supernovae and match observations of disk and halo stars at comparable
metallicity. The remaining metal-poor stars are enhanced in Na and Al compared
to their disk and halo counterparts and are mostly consistent with predicted
yields from >5 M_sun asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars. At [Fe/H]>-1.2, more
than 75% of the stars are Na/Al enhanced and may have formed almost exclusively
from AGB ejecta. Most of these stars are enhanced in Na by at least 0.2 dex for
a given Al abundance than would be expected based on "normal" globular cluster
values. All stars in our sample are alpha-rich and have solar-scaled Fe-peak
abundances. Eu does not vary extensively as a function of metallicity; however,
[La/Fe] varies from about -0.4 to +2 and stars with [Fe/H]>-1.5 have [La/Eu]
values indicating domination by the s-process. A quarter of our sample have
[La/Eu]>+1 and may be the result of mass transfer in a binary system.