The dispersal stages of organisms with sessile adults must be able to select
habitats with suitable conditions for establishment and survival, and must also
be able to reach those locations. For marine planktonic larvae, movement due to
currents is often orders of magnitude greater than movement due to swimming
behaviour, so transport is largely passive.
  Current patterns are determined by the interaction of geography with tidal
forces, modified by meteorological conditions. These linkages impose an
area-specific focus to connectivity studies. Yet, how geographical features and
meteorological forcing combine to produce specific current patterns and
resultant connectivity among populations remains unclear.
  In this study, we followed tracks of generic particles driven by modelled
hydrodynamic currents to investigate how connectivity between evenly spaced
habitat sites varies in relation to coastal topography. Larvae released from
regions of high current velocity, open coastline and low local habitat
availability travelled furthest but were less likely to disperse successfully.
Extensive natal habitat in the vicinity of a site generally had a positive
impact on the number of larvae arriving, as did low current velocities.
However, relationships between numbers of arriving larvae and local
geographical indices were complex, particularly at longer larval durations.
  Local geography alone explained up to 50% of the variance in success of
larvae released and around 10% of the variation in the number of larvae
arriving at each site, but coastline properties fall short of predicting
dispersal measures for particular locations. The study shows that
meteorological variation and broad scale current patterns interact strongly
with local geography to determine connectivity in coastal areas.