We present the first interferometric observations of CO(1-0) and CO(2-1) line
emission from the warped LINER NGC3718, obtained with the IRAM PdBI. This L1.9
galaxy has a prominent dust lane and on kpc scales, a strongly warped atomic
and molecular gas disk. The molecular gas is closely associated with the dust
lane across the nucleus and its kinematic center is consistent with the mm
continuum AGN. A comparison of our interferometric mosaic data, which fully
cover the ~9kpc warped disk, with a previously obtained IRAM 30m single dish
CO(1-0) map shows that the molecular gas distribution in the disk is heavily
resolved by the PdBI map. After applying a short-spacing correction with the
IRAM 30m data, we find in total six main source components within the dust
lane: one associated with the nucleus, four symmetrically positioned on either
side at galactocentric distances of about 1.3kpc and 4.0kpc from the center,
and a sixth on the western side at ~3kpc with only a very weak eastern
counterpart. In the framework of a kinematic model using tilted rings, we
interpret the five symmetric source components as locations of strong orbital
crowding. We further find indications that the warp appears not only on kpc
scales, but continues down to 250pc. Besides the sixth feature on the western
side, the lower flux of the eastern components compared to the western ones
indicates an intrinsic large scale asymmetry in NGC3718 that cannot be
explained by the warp. Indications for a small scale asymmetry are also seen in
the central 600pc. These asymmetries might be evidence for a tidal interaction
with a companion galaxy (large scales) and gas accretion onto the nucleus
(small scales). Our study of NGC3718 is part of the NUGA project that aims at
investigating the different processes of gas accretion onto AGN.