Concerns on location privacy frequently arise with the rapid development of
GPS enabled devices and location-based applications. While spatial
transformation techniques such as location perturbation or generalization have
been studied extensively, most techniques rely on syntactic privacy models
without rigorous privacy guarantee. Many of them only consider static scenarios
or perturb the location at single timestamps without considering temporal
correlation of a moving user's locations, and hence are vulnerable to various
inference attacks. While differential privacy has been accepted as a de facto
standard for privacy protection, applying differential privacy in location
based applications presents new challenges, as the protection needs to be
enforced on the fly for a single user and needs to incorporate temporal
correlation between a user's locations.
  In this paper, we propose a systematic solution to preserve location privacy
with rigorous privacy guarantee. First, we propose a new definition, dynamic
differential privacy, to account for the temporal correlation in location data.
Second, we show that the well known $\ell_1$ norm sensitivity fails to capture
the geometric sensitivity in multidimensional space and propose a new notion,
sensitivity hull, based on which the utility of dynamic differential privacy is
bounded. Third, to obtain the optimal utility we present a planar isotropic
mechanism (PIM), which is the first mechanism achieving the lower bound of
differential privacy. We also implement PIM on real-world datasets to
demonstrate its performance.