Delay-capacity tradeoffs for mobile networks have been analyzed through a
number of research work. However, L\'{e}vy mobility known to closely capture
human movement patterns has not been adopted in such work. Understanding the
delay-capacity tradeoff for a network with L\'{e}vy mobility can provide
important insights into understanding the performance of real mobile networks
governed by human mobility. This paper analytically derives an important point
in the delay-capacity tradeoff for L\'{e}vy mobility, known as the critical
delay. The critical delay is the minimum delay required to achieve greater
throughput than what conventional static networks can possibly achieve (i.e.,
$O(1/\sqrt{n})$ per node in a network with $n$ nodes). The L\'{e}vy mobility
includes L\'{e}vy flight and L\'{e}vy walk whose step size distributions
parametrized by $\alpha \in (0,2]$ are both heavy-tailed while their times
taken for the same step size are different. Our proposed technique involves (i)
analyzing the joint spatio-temporal probability density function of a
time-varying location of a node for L\'{e}vy flight and (ii) characterizing an
embedded Markov process in L\'{e}vy walk which is a semi-Markov process. The
results indicate that in L\'{e}vy walk, there is a phase transition such that
for $\alpha \in (0,1)$, the critical delay is always $\Theta (n^{1/2})$ and for
$\alpha \in [1,2]$ it is $\Theta(n^{\frac{\alpha}{2}})$. In contrast, L\'{e}vy
flight has the critical delay $\Theta(n^{\frac{\alpha}{2}})$ for
$\alpha\in(0,2]$.