The massive cluster of galaxies Abell 2219 (z = 0.228) was observed at 14.3
$\mu$m with the Infrared Space Observatory and results were published by
Barvainis et al. (1999). These observations have been reanalyzed using a method
specifically designed for the detection of faint sources that had been applied
to other clusters. Five new sources were detected and the resulting cumulative
total of ten sources all have optical counterparts. The mid-infrared sources
are identified with three cluster members, three foreground galaxies, an
Extremely Red Object, a star and two galaxies of unknown redshift. The spectral
energy distributions (SEDs) of the galaxies are fit with models from a
selection, using the program GRASIL. Best-fits are obtained, in general, with
models of galaxies with ongoing star formation. For three cluster members the
infrared luminosities derived from the model SEDs are between ~5.7x10^10 Lsun
and 1.4x10^11 Lsun, corresponding to infrared star formation rates between 10
and 24 Msun yr^-1. The two cluster galaxies that have optical classifications
are in the Butcher-Oemler region of the color-magnitude diagramme. The three
foreground galaxies have infrared luminosities between 1.5x10^10 Lsun and
9.4x10^10 Lsun yielding infrared star formation rates between 3 and 16 Msun
yr^-1. Two of the foreground galaxies are located in two foreground galaxy
enhancements (Boschin et al. 2004). Including Abell 2219, six distant clusters
of galaxies have been mapped with ISOCAM and luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs)
have been found in three of them. The presence of LIRGs in Abell 2219
strengthens the association between luminous infrared galaxies in clusters and
recent or ongoing cluster merger activity.