This letter presents wide-field optical and and NIR UBVRI,Halpha,K' images of
the galaxy M74 which were taken between 0.6-8.3 years before the discovery of
the Type Ic SN2002ap. We have located the position of the SN on these images
with an accuracy of 0.3''. We find no sign of a progenitor object on any of the
images. The deepest of these images is the B-band exposure which has a
sensitivity limit corresponding to an absolute magnitude of M_B <= -6.3. From
our observed limits, we rule out as the progenitor all evolved states of single
stars with initial masses greater than 20Msol unless the WR phase has been
entered. Two popular theories for the origin of Type Ic SNe are the core
collapse of massive stars when they are in the WR phase, or the core collapse
of a massive star in an interacting binary which has had its envelope stripped
through mass transfer. Our prediscovery images are sensitive only to the most
luminous ~30% of WR stars, leaving a substantial fraction of typical WR stars
as viable progenitors. The energetics measured from modelling the spectral
evolution of SN 2002ap suggest an explosion of a 5Msol C+O core. While WR stars
generally have measured final masses greater than this, the uncertainties
associated with the explosion model, stellar evolutionary calculations and mass
measurements suggest we cannot definitively rule out a WR star progenitor. The
alternative scenario is that the progenitor was a star of initial mass
20-25Msol which was part of an interacting binary. We discuss future
observations which will provide further constraints on the nature of the
progenitor.