Aims: We present a detailed X-ray and radio wavelength study of G308.4-1.4, a
candidate supernova remnant (SNR) in the ROSAT All Sky Survey and the MOST
supernova remnant catalogue, in order to identify it as a SNR.
  Methods: The SNR candidate and its central sources were studied using
observations from the Chandra X-ray Observatory, SWIFT, the Australian
Telescope Compact Array (ATCA) at 1.4 and 2.5 GHz and WISE infrared observation
at 24 $\mu$m.
  Results: We conclude that G308.4-1.4 is indeed a supernova remnant by means
of its morphology matching at X-ray, radio and infrared wavelength, its
spectral energy distribution in the X-ray band and its emission characteristics
in the radio band. G308.4-1.4 is a shell-type SNR. X-ray, radio and infrared
emission is seen only in the eastern part of the remnant. The X-ray emission
can best be described by an absorbed non-equilibrium collisional plasma with a
hydrogen density of $n_\mathrm{H}=(1.02\pm 0.04) \times 10^{22}$ cm$^{-2}$, a
plasma temperature of $6.3^{+1.2}_{-0.7}$ million Kelvin and an under-abundance
of Iron, Neon and Magnesium, as well as an overabundance in Sulfur with respect
to the solar values. The SNR has a spectral index in the radio band of
$\alpha=-0.7\pm0.2$. A detailed analysis revealed that the remnant is at a
distance of 6 to 12 kpc and the progenitor star exploded $\sim 5000$ to 7500
years ago. Two faint X-ray point sources located near to the remnant's
geometrical center are detected. Both sources have no counterpart at other
wavelengths, leaving them as candidates for the compact remnant of the
supernova explosion.