The recent discovery of the first four afterglows of short-hard gamma-ray
bursts (SHBs), suggests that they typically result from long-lived progenitor
systems. The most popular progenitor model invokes the merger of either double
neutron star (DNS) binaries or neutron star-black hole (NS-BH) systems. Such
events are strong sources of gravitational-waves (GWs) and might be detected by
ground-based GW observatories. In this work we combine the census of SHB
observations with refined theoretical analysis to perform a critical evaluation
of the compact binary model. We then explore the implications for GW detection
of these events. Beginning from the measured star-formation rate through cosmic
time, we consider what intrinsic luminosity and lifetime distributions can
reproduce the known SHB redshifts and luminosities as well as the peak flux
distribution of the large BATSE SHB sample. We find that: (1) The typical
progenitor lifetime is long. Assuming lognormal lifetime distribution the
typical lifetime is >4[1] Gyr (2[3]\sigma c.l.). If the lifetime distribution
is a power-law with index \eta then \eta>-0.5 [-1] (2[3] \sigma c.l.). This
result is difficult to reconcile with the properties of the observed galactic
DNS population, suggesting that if SHBs do result from DNS mergers then the
observed galactic binaries do not represent the cosmic one. (2) We find that
the local rate of SHBs is larger than 10Gpc^-3/yr and may be higher by several
orders of magnitude, significantly above previous estimates. (3) Assuming that
SHBs do result from compact binaries, our predictions for the LIGO and VIRGO
event rates are encouraging: The chance for detection by current facilities is
not negligible, while a coincident detection of GW and electromagnetic
radiation from an SHB is guaranteed for next-generation observatories.