We present the GAMA Panchromatic Data Release (PDR) constituting over
230deg$^2$ of imaging with photometry in 21 bands extending from the far-UV to
the far-IR. These data complement our spectroscopic campaign of over 300k
galaxies, and are compiled from observations with a variety of facilities
including: GALEX, SDSS, VISTA, WISE, and Herschel, with the GAMA regions
currently being surveyed by VST and scheduled for observations by ASKAP. These
data are processed to a common astrometric solution, from which photometry is
derived for 221,373 galaxies with r<19.8 mag. Online tools are provided to
access and download data cutouts, or the full mosaics of the GAMA regions in
each band.
  We focus, in particular, on the reduction and analysis of the VISTA VIKING
data, and compare to earlier datasets (i.e., 2MASS and UKIDSS) before combining
the data and examining its integrity. Having derived the 21-band photometric
catalogue we proceed to fit the data using the energy balance code MAGPHYS.
These measurements are then used to obtain the first fully empirical
measurement of the 0.1-500$\mu$m energy output of the Universe. Exploring the
Cosmic Spectral Energy Distribution (CSED) across three time-intervals
(0.3-1.1Gyr, 1.1-1.8~Gyr and 1.8---2.4~Gyr), we find that the Universe is
currently generating $(1.5 \pm 0.3) \times 10^{35}$ h$_{70}$ W Mpc$^{-3}$, down
from $(2.5 \pm 0.2) \times 10^{35}$ h$_{70}$ W Mpc$^{-3}$ 2.3~Gyr ago. More
importantly, we identify significant and smooth evolution in the integrated
photon escape fraction at all wavelengths, with the UV escape fraction
increasing from 27(18)% at z=0.18 in NUV(FUV) to 34(23)% at z=0.06.
  The GAMA PDR will allow for detailed studies of the energy production and
outputs of individual systems, sub-populations, and representative galaxy
samples at $z<0.5$. The GAMA PDR can be found at: http://gama-psi.icrar.org/