The environmental dependencies of the characteristics of spiral galaxy
rotation curves are studied in this work. We use our large, homogeneously
collected sample of 510 cluster spiral galaxy rotation curves to test the claim
that the shape of a galaxy's rotation curve strongly depends on its location
within the cluster, and thus presumably on the strength of the local
intracluster medium and on the frequency and strength of tidal interactions
with the cluster and cluster galaxies. Our data do not corroborate such a
scenario, consistent with the fact that Tully-Fisher residuals are independent
of galaxy location within the cluster; while the average late-type spiral
galaxy shows more rise in the outer parts of its rotation curve than does the
typical early-type spiral galaxy, there is no apparent trend for either subset
with cluster environment. We also investigate as a function of cluster
environment rotation curve asymmetry and the radial distribution of H II region
tracers within galactic disks. Mild trends with projected cluster-centric
distance are observed: (i) the (normalized) radial extent of optical line
emission averaged over all spiral galaxy types shows a 4%+/-2% increase per Mpc
of galaxy-cluster core separation, and (ii) rotation curve asymmetry falls by a
factor of two between the inner and outer cluster for early-type spirals (a
negligible decrease is found for late-type spirals). Such trends are consistent
with spiral disk perturbations or even the stripping of the diffuse, outermost
gaseous regions within the disks as galaxies pass through the dense cluster
cores.