Based on Cumulative Number of Confirmed Human Cases of Avian Influenza (H5N1)
Reported to World Health Organization (WHO) in the 2011 from 15 countries,
Indonesia has the largest number death because Avian Influenza which 146
deaths. In this research, the researcher built a Web Mapping and
Dempster-Shafer theory as early warning system of avian influenza. Early
warning is the provision of timely and effective information, through
identified institutions, that allows individuals exposed to a hazard to take
action to avoid or reduce their risk and prepare for effective response. In
this paper as example we use five symptoms as major symptoms which include
depression, combs, wattle, bluish face region, swollen face region, narrowness
of eyes, and balance disorders. Research location is in the Lampung Province,
South Sumatera. The researcher reason to choose Lampung Province in South
Sumatera on the basis that has a high poultry population. Geographically,
Lampung province is located at 103040' to 105050' East Longitude and 6045' -
3045' South latitude, confined with: South Sumatera and Bengkulu on North Side,
Sunda Strait on the Side, Java Sea on the East Side, Indonesia Ocean on the
West Side. Our approach uses Dempster Shafer theory to combine beliefs in
certain hypotheses under conditions of uncertainty and ignorance, and allows
quantitative measurement of the belief and plausibility in our identification
result. Web Mapping is also used for displaying maps on a screen to visualize
the result of the identification process. The result reveal that avian
influenza warning system has successfully identified the existence of avian
influenza and the maps can be displayed as the visualization.