We present a wide-field H-alpha imaging survey of the rich cluster
CL0939+4713 (Abell 851) at z=0.41 with Suprime-Cam on the Subaru Telescope,
using the narrow-band filter NB921. The survey is sensitive to active galaxies
with star formation rates down to ~0.3Msun/yr throughout the 27'x27' field, and
we identified 445 H-alpha emitters along the large-scale structures around the
cluster. Using this sample, we find that (1) the fraction of H-alpha emitters
is a strong function of environment and shows a clear decline toward the
cluster central region. We also find that (2) the color of H-alpha emitters is
clearly dependent on environment. The majority of the H-alpha emitters have
blue colors with B-I<2, but we find H-alpha emitters with red colors as well.
Such red emitters are very rare in the cluster center or its immediate
surrounding regions, while they are most frequently found in groups located far
away from the cluster center. These groups coincide with the environment where
a sharp transition in galaxy color distribution is seen. This may suggest that
dusty star formation activity tends to be involved in galaxy truncation
processes that are effective in groups, and it is probably related to the
"pre-processing" that generates present-day cluster S0 galaxies. Finally, we
confirm that (3) the mass-normalized integrated star formation rate in clusters
(i.e. the total star formation rate within 0.5xR200 from the cluster center
divided by the cluster dynamical mass) rapidly increases with look-back time
following approximately ~(1+z)^6, and it is also correlated with the cluster
mass.