In a radio search with the Green Bank Telescope of three unidentified low
Galactic latitude Fermi-LAT sources, we have discovered the middle-aged pulsar
J2030+3641, associated with 1FGL J2030.0+3641 (2FGL J2030.0+3640). Following
the detection of gamma-ray pulsations using a radio ephemeris, we have obtained
a phase-coherent timing solution based on gamma-ray and radio pulse arrival
times that spans the entire Fermi mission. With a rotation period of 0.2 s,
spin-down luminosity of 3e34 erg/s, and characteristic age of 0.5 Myr, PSR
J2030+3641 is a middle-aged neutron star with spin parameters similar to those
of the exceedingly gamma-ray-bright and radio-undetected Geminga. Its gamma-ray
flux is 1% that of Geminga, primarily because of its much larger distance, as
suggested by the large integrated column density of free electrons, DM=246
pc/cc. We fit the gamma-ray light curve, along with limited radio polarimetric
constraints, to four geometrical models of magnetospheric emission, and while
none of the fits have high significance some are encouraging and suggest that
further refinements of these models may be worthwhile. We argue that not many
more non-millisecond radio pulsars may be detected along the Galactic plane
that are responsible for LAT sources, but that modified methods to search for
gamma-ray pulsations should be productive -- PSR J2030+3641 would have been
found blindly in gamma rays if only >0.8 GeV photons had been considered, owing
to its relatively flat spectrum and location in a region of high soft
background.