Location-based services are increasingly used in our daily activities. In
current services, users however have to give up their location privacy in order
to acquire the service. The literature features a large number of contributions
which aim at enhancing user privacy in location-based services. Most of these
contributions obfuscate the locations of users using spatial and/or temporal
cloaking in order to provide k-anonymity. Although such schemes can indeed
strengthen the location privacy of users, they often decrease the service
quality and do not necessarily prevent the possible tracking of user movements
(i.e., direction, trajectory, velocity). With the rise of Geofencing
applications, tracking of movements becomes more evident since, in these
settings, the service provider is not only requesting a single location of the
user, but requires the movement vectors of users to determine whether the user
has entered/exited a Geofence of interest. In this paper, we propose a novel
solution, PrivLoc, which enables the privacy-preserving outsourcing of
Geofencing and location-based services to the cloud without leaking any
meaningful information about the location, trajectory, and velocity of the
users. Notably, PrivLoc enables an efficient and privacy-preserving
intersection of movement vectors with any polygon of interest, leveraging
functionality from existing Geofencing services or spatial databases. We
analyze the security and privacy provisions of PrivLoc and we evaluate the
performance of our scheme by means of implementation. Our results show that the
performance overhead introduced by PrivLoc can be largely tolerated in
realistic deployment settings.