(ABRIDGED) We report the genome sequencing of 139 wild-derived strains of D.
melanogaster, representing 22 population samples from the sub-Saharan ancestral
range of this species, along with one European population. Most genomes were
sequenced above 25X depth from haploid embryos. Results indicated a pervasive
influence of non-African admixture in many African populations, motivating the
development and application of a novel admixture detection method. Admixture
proportions varied among populations, with greater admixture in urban
locations. Admixture levels also varied across the genome, with localized peaks
and valleys suggestive of a non-neutral introgression process. Genomes from the
same location differed starkly in ancestry, suggesting that isolation
mechanisms may exist within African populations. After removing putatively
admixed genomic segments, the greatest genetic diversity was observed in
southern Africa (e.g. Zambia), while diversity in other populations was largely
consistent with a geographic expansion from this potentially ancestral region.
The European population showed different levels of diversity reduction on each
chromosome arm, and some African populations displayed chromosome arm-specific
diversity reductions. Inversions in the European sample were associated with
strong elevations in diversity across chromosome arms. Genomic scans were
conducted to identify loci that may represent targets of positive selection. A
disproportionate number of candidate selective sweep regions were located near
genes with varied roles in gene regulation. Outliers for Europe-Africa FST were
found to be enriched in genomic regions of locally elevated cosmopolitan
admixture, possibly reflecting a role for some of these loci in driving the
introgression of non-African alleles into African populations.