The regulation of a gene depends on the binding of transcription factors to
specific sites located in the regulatory region of the gene. The generation of
these binding sites and of cooperativity between them are essential building
blocks in the evolution of complex regulatory networks. We study a theoretical
model for the sequence evolution of binding sites by point mutations. The
approach is based on biophysical models for the binding of transcription
factors to DNA. Hence we derive empirically grounded fitness landscapes, which
enter a population genetics model including mutations, genetic drift, and
selection. We show that the selection for factor binding generically leads to
specific correlations between nucleotide frequencies at different positions of
a binding site. We demonstrate the possibility of rapid adaptive evolution
generating a new binding site for a given transcription factor by point
mutations. The evolutionary time required is estimated in terms of the neutral
(background) mutation rate, the selection coefficient, and the effective
population size. The efficiency of binding site formation is seen to depend on
two joint conditions: the binding site motif must be short enough and the
promoter region must be long enough. These constraints on promoter architecture
are indeed seen in eukaryotic systems. Furthermore, we analyse the adaptive
evolution of genetic switches and of signal integration through binding
cooperativity between different sites. Experimental tests of this picture
involving the statistics of polymorphisms and phylogenies of sites are
discussed.