We present high resolution observations (FWHM=15 km/sec) of the Li region in
5 stars belonging to the old (14 Gyrs), metal rich ([Fe/H]=-0.7) globular
cluster 47Tuc. At the ESO NTT telescope we obtained EMMI spectra for three V
about 17.4 magnitude stars located at the turnoff with Teff on the Spite
plateau. In two of the turnoff stars the lithium line is clearly detected and
the mean lithium content [Li] = 2.37$+/- 0.08 +/- 0.07 is derived. This value
is slightly higher than the Spite plateau at [Li]=2.19 +/- 0.016 for field halo
stars obtained with the same Teff scale by Bonifacio and Molaro (1996). For the
third turnoff star only an upper limit could be derived: [Li] < 2.19. This
upper limit may suggest the presence of some dispersion on the plateau stars of
47Tuc as it is observed in field stars of similar metallicity. When compared
with field dwarfs of [Fe/H] about -0.7 the Li content of 47Tuc turnoff stars is
among the highest observed. Considering the extreme age of 47Tuc this suggests
that no significant depletion affected these stars and it implies a mild Li
Galactic enrichment between the epoch of Pop II formation and the formation of
47Tuc stars with metallicities up to about -0.7. Spallation reactions, as
deduced from Be observations, can account for such an increase. The remaining
two stars are evolved, and only upper limits could be placed at [Li]<0.7 and
<-0.7. These very low values imply some extra depletion mechanism in addition
to dilution as it is observed in evolved field stars by Pilachowki et al (1993)
and in NGC6397 by Pasquini and Molaro (1996).