We examine the internal structure of solar-like stars in detail between 0.8
and 1.4M Sun and during pre-main sequence phase. Recent opacity computations of
OPAL along with a new hydrodynamical mixing process have been considered. We
also introduce up-to-date nuclear reaction rates and explore the impact of
accretion, mixing-length parameter, non-solar distributions among metals and
realistic rotation history. We compare models predictions of lithium depletion
to the $^7Li$ content observations of the Sun and to 4 young clusters of
different metallicities and ages. We show that we can distinguish two phases in
lithium depletion: 1- a rapid nuclear destruction in the T-Tauri phase before
20 Myrs : this is independent of the mass used within our range but largely
dependent on the extension and temperature of the convective zone, 2- a second
phase where the destruction is slow and moderate and which is largely dependent
on the (magneto)hydrodynamic instability located at the base of the convective
zone.
  In terms of composition, we show the interest on considering helium and
especially the mixture of heavy elements : carbon, oxygen, silicium and iron.
We outline the importance of O/Fe ratio. We note a reasonable agreement on
lithium depletion for the two best known cases, the Sun and the Hyades cluster
for solar-like stars. Other clusters suggest that processes which may partly
inhibit the predicted premainsequence depletion cannot be excluded, in
particular for stars below ~ 0.9M Sun. Finally we suggest different research
areas such as initial stellar models and more realistic atmospheres which could
contribute to a better understanding of this early phase of evolution and which
should become the object of subsequent research.