Accurate reconstruction of piecewise-smooth functions from a finite number of
Fourier coefficients is an important problem in various applications. The
inherent inaccuracy, in particular the Gibbs phenomenon, is being intensively
investigated during the last decades. Several nonlinear reconstruction methods
have been proposed, and it is by now well-established that the "classical"
convergence order can be completely restored up to the discontinuities. Still,
the maximal accuracy of determining the positions of these discontinuities
remains an open question. In this paper we prove that the locations of the
jumps (and subsequently the pointwise values of the function) can be
reconstructed with at least "half the classical accuracy". In particular, we
develop a constructive approximation procedure which, given the first $k$
Fourier coefficients of a piecewise-$C^{2d+1}$ function, recovers the locations
of the jumps with accuracy $\sim k^{-(d+2)}$, and the values of the function
between the jumps with accuracy $\sim k^{-(d+1)}$ (similar estimates are
obtained for the associated jump magnitudes). A key ingredient of the algorithm
is to start with the case of a single discontinuity, where a modified version
of one of the existing algebraic methods (due to K.Eckhoff) may be applied. It
turns out that the additional orders of smoothness produce a highly correlated
error terms in the Fourier coefficients, which eventually cancel out in the
corresponding algebraic equations. To handle more than one jump, we propose to
apply a localization procedure via a convolution in the Fourier domain.