Two prevailing theories for explaining social group or community structure
are cohesion and identity. The social cohesion approach posits that social
groups arise out of an aggregation of individuals that have mutual
interpersonal attraction as they share common characteristics. These
characteristics can range from common interests to kinship ties and from social
values to ethnic backgrounds. In contrast, the social identity approach posits
that an individual is likely to join a group based on an intrinsic
self-evaluation at a cognitive or perceptual level. In other words group
members typically share an awareness of a common category membership.
  In this work we seek to understand the role of these two contrasting theories
in explaining the behavior and stability of social communities in Twitter. A
specific focal point of our work is to understand the role of these theories in
disparate contexts ranging from disaster response to socio-political activism.
We extract social identity and social cohesion features-of-interest for large
scale datasets of five real-world events and examine the effectiveness of such
features in capturing behavioral characteristics and the stability of groups.
We also propose a novel measure of social group sustainability based on the
divergence in group discussion. Our main findings are: 1) Sharing of social
identities (especially physical location) among group members has a positive
impact on group sustainability, 2) Structural cohesion (represented by high
group density and low average shortest path length) is a strong indicator of
group sustainability, and 3) Event characteristics play a role in shaping group
sustainability, as social groups in transient events behave differently from
groups in events that last longer.