We report recent studies on structure functions of the nucleon and nuclei.
First, clustering effects are investigated in the structure function F_2 of
Be-9 for explaining an unusual nuclear correction found in a JLab experiment.
We propose that high densities created by formation of clustering structure
like 2*alpha+neutron in Be-9 is the origin of the unexpected JLab result by
using the antisymmetrized molecular dynamics (AMD). There is an approved
proposal at JLab to investigate the structure functions of light nuclei
including the cluster structure, so that much details will become clear in a
few years. Second, tensor-polarized quark and antiquark distributions are
obtained by analyzing HERMES measurements on the structure function b_1 for the
deuteron. The result suggests a finite tensor polarization for antiquark
distributions, which is an interesting topic for further theoretical and
experimental investigations. An experimental proposal exists at JLab for
measuring b_1 of the deuteron as a new tensor-structure study in 2010's.
Furthermore, the antiquark tensor polarization could be measured by polarized
deuteron Drell-Yan processes at hadron facilities such as J-PARC and GSI-FAIR.
Third, the recent CDF dijet anomaly is investigated within the standard model
by considering possible modifications of the strange-quark distribution. We
find that the shape of a dijet-mass spectrum changes depending on the
strange-quark distribution. It indicates that the CDF excess could be partially
explained as a PDF effect, particularly by the strangeness in the nucleon,
within the standard model if the excess at m_{jj}~140 GeV is not a sharp peak.