Kanzelh\"ohe Observatory (KSO) regularly performs high-cadence full-disk
imaging of the solar chromosphere in the H$\alpha$ and CaIIK spectrallines as
well as the solar photosphere in white-light. In the frame of ESA's Space
Situational Awareness (SSA) programme, a new system for real-time H$\alpha$
data provision and automatic flare detection was developed at KSO. The data and
events detected are published in near real-time at ESA's SSA Space Weather
portal (http://swe.ssa.esa.int/web/guest/kso-federated). In this paper, we
describe the H$\alpha$ instrument, the image recognition algorithms developed,
the implementation into the KSO H$\alpha$ observing system and present the
evaluation results of the real-time data provision and flare detection for a
period of five months. The H$\alpha$ data provision worked in $99.96$% of the
images, with a mean time lag between image recording and online provision of
4s. Within the given criteria for the automatic image recognition system (at
least three H$\alpha$ images are needed for a positive detection), all flares
with an area $\ge$50 micro-hemispheres and located within $60^\circ$ of the
Sun's center that occurred during the KSO observing times were detected, in
total a number of 87 events. The automatically determined flare importance and
brightness classes were correct in $\sim$85%. The mean flare positions in
heliographic longitude and latitude were correct within $\sim$1$^\circ$. The
median of the absolute differences for the flare start times and peak times
from the automatic detections in comparison to the official NOAA (and KSO)
visual flare reports were 3 min (1 min).