The v=1 and v=2 J=1-0 (43 GHz), and v=1 J=2-1 (86 GHz) SiO masers are intense
in AGB stars and have been mapped using VLBI showing ring-like distributions.
Those of the v=1, v=2 J=1-0 masers are similar, but the spots are rarely
coincident, while the v=1 J=2-1 maser arises from a well separated region
farther out. These relative locations can be explained by models tools that
include the overlap of two IR lines of SiO and H2O. The v=3 J=1-0 line is not
directly affected by any line overlap and its spot structure and position,
relative to the other lines, is a good test to the standard pumping models. We
present single-dish and simultaneous VLBI observations of the v=1, v=2, and v=3
J=1-0 maser transitions of 28SiO in several AGB stars. The spatial distribution
of the SiO maser emission in the v=3 J=1-0 transition from AGB stars is
systematically composed of a series of spots that occupy a ring-like structure.
The overall ring structure is extremely similar to that found in the other 43
GHz transitions and is very different from the structure of the v=1 J=2-1
maser. The positions of the individual spots of the different 43 GHz lines are,
however, very rarely coincident, which in general is separated by about 0.3 AU
(between 1 and 5 mas). These results are very difficult to reconcile with
standard pumping models, which predict that the masers of rotational
transitions within a given vibrational state require very similar excitation
conditions, while the transitions of different vibrational states should appear
in different positions. However, models including line overlap tend to predict
v=1, v=2, v=3 J=1-0 population inversion to occur under very similar
conditions, while the requirements for v=1 J=2-1 appear clearly different, and
are compatible with the observational results.