This is the first report of Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope observations of
the quasar 3C 454.3, which has been undergoing pronounced long-term outbursts
since 2000. The data from the Large Area Telescope (LAT), covering 2008 July 7
- October 6, indicate strong, highly variable gamma-ray emission with an
average flux of ~3 x 10^{-6} photons cm^{-2} s^{-1}, for energies above 100
MeV. The gamma-ray flux is variable, with strong, distinct,
symmetrically-shaped flares for which the flux increases by a factor of several
on a time scale of about three days. This variability indicates a compact
emission region, and the requirement that the source is optically thin to
pair-production implies relativistic beaming with Doppler factor delta > 8,
consistent with the values inferred from VLBI observations of superluminal
expansion (delta ~ 25). The observed gamma-ray spectrum is not consistent with
a simple power-law, but instead steepens strongly above ~2 GeV, and is well
described by a broken power-law with photon indices of ~2.3 and ~3.5 below and
above the break, respectively. This is the first direct observation of a break
in the spectrum of a high luminosity blazar above 100 MeV, and it is likely
direct evidence for an intrinsic break in the energy distribution of the
radiating particles. Alternatively, the spectral softening above 2 GeV could be
due to gamma-ray absorption via photon-photon pair production on the soft X-ray
photon field of the host AGN, but such an interpretation would require the
dissipation region to be located very close (less than 100 gravitational radii)
to the black hole, which would be inconsistent with the X-ray spectrum of the
source.