Enhanced dynamical fluctuations of RNAs, facilitated by a network of water
molecules with strong interactions with RNA, are suspected to be critical in
their ability to respond to a variety of cellular signals. Using atomically
detailed molecular dynamics simulations at various temperatures of purine
(adenine)- and preQ$_1$ sensing riboswitch aptamers, we show that water
molecules in the vicinity of RNAs undergo complex dynamics depending on the
local structures of the RNAs. The overall lifetimes of hydrogen bonds (HBs) of
surface bound waters are more than at least 1-2 orders of magnitude longer than
bulk water. Slow hydration dynamics, revealed in non-Arrhenius behavior of the
relaxation time, arises from high activation barriers to break water hydrogen
bonds with a nucleotide and by reduced diffusion of water. The relaxation
kinetics at specific locations in the two RNAs show a broad spectrum of time
scales reminiscent of glass-like behavior, suggesting that the hydration
dynamics is highly heterogeneous. Both RNAs undergo dynamic transition at $T =
T_D \gtrsim 200$ K as assessed by the mean square fluctuation of hydrogen atoms
$\langle x^2\rangle$, which undergoes an abrupt harmonic-to-anharmonic
transition at $T_D$. The near universal value of $T_D$ found for these RNAs and
previously for tRNA is strongly correlated with changes in hydration dynamics
as $T$ is altered. Hierarchical dynamics of waters associated with the RNA
surface, revealed in the motions of distinct classes of water with
well-separated time scales, reflects the heterogeneous local environment on the
molecular surface of RNA. At low temperatures slow water dynamics predominates
over structural transitions. Our study demonstrates that the complex interplay
of dynamics between water and local environment in the RNA structures could be
a key determinant of the functional activities of RNA.