We present the results of the search for spherical volumes containing no
galaxies with luminosities brighter than the Magellanic Clouds in the Local
Supercluster and its vicinity. Within a distance of 40 Mpc from us, 89 cosmic
voids were discovered with the diameters of 24 to 12 Mpc, containing no
galaxies with absolute magnitudes brighter than M_K < -18.4. A list of these
voids and the sky distribution maps are given. It was found that 93% of
spherical voids overlap, forming three more extended percolated voids
(hypervoids). The largest of them, HV1, has 56 initial spherical cells and
extends in a horseshoe shape, enveloping the Local Volume and the Virgo
cluster. The Local Void (Tully, 1988) in the Hercules-Aquila region is the
closest part of the HV1. Another hypervoid, HV2, contains 22 spherical voids in
the Eridanus constellation, and the third compact hypervoid (HV3) comprises 6
spherical cells in the Bootes. The total volume of these voids incorporates
about 30% of the Local Universe. Among 2906 dwarf galaxies excluded from the
original sample (n = 10502) in the search for spherical volumes, only 68 are
located in the voids we have discovered. They are characterized by late
morphological types (85% are Ir, Im, BCD, Sm), absolute magnitudes M_B ranging
from -13.0 to -16.7, moderate star formation rates (log SSFR ~ -10
M_sun/(yr*L_sun) and gas reserves per luminosity unit twice to three times
larger than in the other dwarf galaxies located in normal environments. The
dwarf population of the voids shows a certain tendency to sit shallow near the
surfaces of cosmic voids.