The debris disk known as "The Moth" is named after its unusually asymmetric
surface brightness distribution. It is located around the ~90 Myr old G8V star
HD 61005 at 34.5 pc and has previously been imaged by the HST at 1.1 and 0.6
microns. Polarimetric observations suggested that the circumstellar material
consists of two distinct components, a nearly edge-on disk or ring, and a
swept-back feature, the result of interaction with the interstellar medium. We
resolve both components at unprecedented resolution with VLT/NACO H-band
imaging. Using optimized angular differential imaging techniques to remove the
light of the star, we reveal the disk component as a distinct narrow ring at
inclination i=84.3 \pm 1.0{\deg}. We determine a semi-major axis of a=61.25 \pm
0.85 AU and an eccentricity of e=0.045 \pm 0.015, assuming that periastron is
located along the apparent disk major axis. Therefore, the ring center is
offset from the star by at least 2.75 \pm 0.85 AU. The offset, together with a
relatively steep inner rim, could indicate a planetary companion that perturbs
the remnant planetesimal belt. From our imaging data we set upper mass limits
for companions that exclude any object above the deuterium-burning limit for
separations down to 0.3". The ring shows a strong brightness asymmetry along
both the major and minor axis. A brighter front side could indicate
forward-scattering grains, while the brightness difference between the NE and
SW components can be only partly explained by the ring center offset,
suggesting additional density enhancements on one side of the ring. The
swept-back component appears as two streamers originating near the NE and SW
edges of the debris ring.