(Abridged) The Edgeworth-Kuiper belt with its presumed dusty debris is a
natural reference for extrsolar debris disks. We employ a new algorithm to
eliminate the inclination and the distance selection effects in the known TNO
populations to derive expected parameters of the "true" EKB. Its estimated mass
is M_EKB=0.12 M_earth, which is by a factor of \sim 15 larger than the mass of
the EKB objects detected so far. About a half of the total EKB mass is in
classical and resonant objects and another half is in scattered ones. Treating
the debiased populations of EKB objects as dust parent bodies, we then
"generate" their dust disk with our collisional code. Apart from accurate
handling of collisions and direct radiation pressure, we include the
Poynting-Robertson (P-R) drag, which cannot be ignored for the EKB dust disk.
Outside the classical EKB, the radial profile of the optical depth
approximately follows tau \sim r^-2 which is roughly intermediate between the
slope predicted analytically for collision-dominated (r^-1.5) and
transport-dominated (r^-2.5) disks. The cross section-dominating grain size
still lies just above the blowout size (\sim 1...2 \microm), as it would
without the P-R transport. However, if the EKB were by one order of magnitude
less massive, the optical depth profile would fall off as tau \sim r^-3, and
the cross section-dominating grain size would shift from \sim 1...2\microm to
~100 \microm. These properties are seen if dust is assumed to be generated only
by known TNOs. If the solar system were observed from outside, the thermal
emission flux from the EKB dust would be about two orders of magnitude lower
than for solar-type stars with the brightest known infrared excesses observed
from the same distance. Herschel and other new-generation facilities should
reveal extrasolar debris disks nearly as tenuous as the EKB disk. The
Herschel/PACS instrument should be able to detect disks at a \sim 1...2M_EKB
level.