The present paper describes the behavior of the rotational velocity in
metal--poor stars ([Fe/H]<-0.5 dex) in different evolutionary stages, based on
Vsini values from the literature. Our sample is comprised of stars in the field
and some Galactic globular clusters, including stars on the main sequence, the
red giant branch (RGB), and the horizontal branch (HB). The metal--poor stars
are, mainly, slow rotators, and their Vsini distribution along the HR diagram
is quite homogeneous. Nevertheless, a few moderate to high values of Vsini are
found in stars located on the main sequence and on the HB. We show that the
overall distribution of Vsini values is basically independent of metallicity
for the stars in our sample. In particular, the fast-rotating main sequence
stars in our sample present similar rotation rates as their metal-rich
counterparts, suggesting that some of them may actually be fairly young, in
spite of their low metallicity, or else that at least some of them would be
better classified as blue straggler stars. We do not find significant evidence
of evolution in Vsini values as a function of position on the RGB; in
particular, we do not confirm previous suggestions that stars close to the RGB
tip rotate faster than their less evolved counterparts. While the presence of
fast rotators among moderately cool blue HB stars has been suggested to be due
to angular momentum transport from a stellar core that has retained significant
angular momentum during its prior evolution, we find that any such transport
mechanisms must likely operate very fast as the star arrives on the zero-age HB
(ZAHB), since we do not find a link between evolution off the ZAHB and Vsini
values.
  We present an extensive tabulation of all quantities discussed in this paper,
including rotation velocities, temperatures, gravitie