The paper tries to point out the benefits that can be derived from research
advances in the implementation of concepts such as ambient intelligence (AmI)
and ubiquitous or pervasive computing for promoting Universal Access (UA) to
the Information Society, that is, for contributing to enable everybody,
especially Physically Disabled (PD) people, to have easy access to all
computing resources and information services that the coming worldwide
Information Society will soon make available to the general public. Following
definitions of basic concepts relating to multimodal interaction, the
significant contribution of multimodality to developing UA is briefly argued.
Then, a short state of the art in AmI research is presented. In the last
section we bring out the potential contribution of advances in AmI research and
technology to the improvement of computer access for PD people. This claim is
supported by the following observations: (i) most projects aiming at
implementing AmI focus on the design of new interaction modalities and flexible
multimodal user interfaces which may facilitate PD users' computer access ;
(ii) targeted applications will support users in a wide range of daily
activities which will be performed simultaneously with supporting computing
tasks; therefore, users will be placed in contexts where they will be
confronted with similar difficulties to those encountered by PD users; (iii)
AmI applications being intended for the general public, a wide range of new
interaction devices and flexible processing software will be available, making
it possible to provide PD users with human-computer facilities tailored to
their specific needs at reasonable expense..