We report measurement of room-temperature compressibility, thermal expansion,
thermoelectric power a(T) at various pressures P < 20 kbar, basal-plane
resistivity rab (T), magnetic susceptibility and thermal conductivity k(T)
taken on single-crystal or cold-pressed Na0.57CoO2. An enhancement of a large
thermopower with a change of slope occurs on heating near 100 K, but this
enhancement is progressively suppressed by pressure. The c-axis thermal
expansion is large in the interval 150 K <T < 250 K where the c-axis
resistivity exhibits a smooth transition from a metallic to a non-metallic
temperature dependence; but the basal-plane thermal expansion remains
negligible for all temperatures T < 300 K. On the other hand, the basal-plane
room-temperature compressibility is large in the interval 0 < P < 22 kbar,
becoming negligible in the range 22 < P < 45 kbar, whereas the c-axis
room-temperature compressibility is anomalously large in the pressure range 22
< P < 35 kbar. The basal plane resistivity is prop. to T^(3/2) below 175 K
where there is 3D metallic conduction; it rises less rapidly with temperature
where the metallic conduction is confined to 2D. The phonon contribution to the
thermal conductivity of a cold-pressed ceramic sample is not suppressed, as
previously reported. These findings are rationalized with the aid of the virial
theorem, recognition of a pinning of the nominal Co(IV)/Co(III) redox couple at
the top of the O2-:2p6 bands, and a schematic location of the a1T and eT
antibonding bands of this couple with respect to the Fermi energy.