Sensitive high angular and linear resolution radio images of the 240-pc radio
jet in NGC4151, imaged at linear resolutions of 0.3 to 2.6 pc using the VLBA
and phased VLA at 21 cm, are presented and reveal for the first time a faint,
highly collimated jet (diameter <1.4 pc) underlying discrete components, seen
in lower resolution MERLIN and VLA images, that appear to be shock-like
features associated with changes in direction as the jet interacts with small
gas clouds within the central 100 pc of the galaxy. In addition, 21-cm spectral
line imaging of the neutral hydrogen in the nuclear region reveals the spatial
location, distribution and kinematics of the neutral gas detected previously in
a lower resolution MERLIN study. Neutral hydrogen absorption is detected
against component C4W (E+F) as predicted by Mundell et al, but the absorption,
extending over 3 pc, is spatially and kinematically complex on sub-parsec
scales, suggesting the presence of small, dense gas clouds with a wide range of
velocities and column densities. The main absorption component matches that
detected in the MERLIN study and is consistent with absorption through a clumpy
neutral gas layer in the putative obscuring torus, with higher velocity blue-
and red-shifted systems with narrow linewidths also detected across E+F. The
spatial location and distribution of the absorbing gas across component E+F
rules out component E as the location of the AGN (as suggested by Ulvestad et
al.) and, in combination with the well-collimated continuum structures seen in
component D, suggests that component D is the most likely location for the AGN.
We suggest that components C and E are shocks produced in the jet as the plasma
encounters, and is deviated by, dense clouds with diameters smaller than ~1.4
pc. (Abridged)