Gamma-ray Bursts (GRBs) are relativistic cosmological beacons of transient
high energy radiation whose afterglows span the electromagnetic spectrum.
Theoretical expectations of correlated neutrino and/or gravitational wave (GW)
emission position GRBs at an astrophysical nexus for a metamorphosis in our
understanding of the Cosmos. This new dawn in the era of experimental
(particle) astrophysics and cosmology is afforded by current and planned
facilities enabling the novel astronomies of high energy neutrinos and
gravitational waves, in concert with unprecedented electromagnetic coverage. In
this white paper, we motivate GRBs as a compelling scientific theme and
highlight key technical advances that may facilitate fundamental breakthroughs
in the context of Swift, Fermi, IceCube and LIGO (Laser Interferometer
Gravitational Wave Observatory), whose capabilities would be augmented with
JANUS (Joint Astrophysics Nascent Universe Satellite), EXIST (Energetic X-ray
Imaging Survey Telescope) and LISA (Laser Interferometer Space Antenna).
Scientific synergy will be achieved by leveraging the combined sensitivity of
contemporaneous ground-based and satellite observatories, thus optimizing their
collective discovery potential for: (i) revealing the origin(s) and
acceleration mechanism(s) of cosmic rays, (ii) exposing GRB progenitor(s) and
(iii) exploring the high-z Cosmos. Hence, the advent of GRB multi-messenger
astronomy may cement an explicit connection to fundamental physics, via nascent
cosmic windows, throughout the next decade and beyond.