We present a comprehensive multi-wavelength analysis of the young cluster NGC
1624 associated with the H II region Sh2-212 using optical UBVRI photometry,
optical spectroscopy and GMRT radio continuum mapping along with the
near-infrared (NIR) JHK archival data. Reddening E(B-V) and distance to the
cluster are estimated to be 0.76 - 1.00 mag and 6.0 +/- 0.8 kpc, respectively.
Present analysis yields a spectral class of O6.5V for the main ionizing source
of the region. The distribution of YSOs in (J-H)/ (H-K) NIR colour-colour
diagram shows that a majority of them have A_V $\le$ 4 mag. Based on the NIR
excess characteristics, we identified 120 probable candidate YSOs in this
region which yield a disk frequency of ~ 20%. These YSOs are found to have an
age spread of ~ 5 Myr with a median age of ~ 2-3 Myr and a mass range of ~ 0.1
- 3.0 $M_\odot$. A significant number of YSOs are located close to the cluster
centre and we detect an enhanced density of reddened YSOs located/projected
close to the molecular clumps at the periphery of NGC 1624. This indicates that
the YSOs located within the cluster core are relatively older in comparison to
those located/projected near the clumps. From the radio continuum flux,
spectral class of the ionizing source of the ultra-compact H II region at the
periphery of Sh2-212 is estimated to be ~ B0.5V. From optical data, slope of
the mass function (MF) $\Gamma$, in the mass range $1.2 \le M/M_{\odot}<27$ can
be represented by a single power law with a slope -1.18 +/- 0.10, whereas the
NIR data in the mass range $0.65 \le M/M_{\odot}<27$ yields $\Gamma$ = -1.31
+/- 0.15. The slope of the K-band luminosity function (KLF) for the cluster is
found to be 0.30 +/- 0.06 which is in agreement with the values obtained for
other young clusters.