Measurement of the coronal magnetic field is a crucial ingredient in
understanding the nature of solar coronal phenomena at all scales. We employed
STEREO/COR1 data obtained during a deep minimum of solar activity in February
2008 (Carrington rotation CR 2066) to retrieve and analyze the
three-dimensional (3D) coronal electron density in the range of heights from
1.5 to 4 Rsun using a tomography method. With this, we qualitatively deduced
structures of the coronal magnetic field. The 3D electron density analysis is
complemented by the 3D STEREO/EUVI emissivity in the 195 A band obtained by
tomography for the same CR. A global 3D MHD model of the solar corona was used
to relate the reconstructed 3D density and emissivity to open/closed magnetic
field structures. We show that the density maximum locations can serve as an
indicator of current sheet position, while the locations of the density
gradient maximum can be a reliable indicator of coronal hole boundaries. We
find that the magnetic field configuration during CR 2066 has a tendency to
become radially open at heliocentric distances greater than 2.5 Rsun. We also
find that the potential field model with a fixed source surface (PFSS) is
inconsistent with the boundaries between the regions with open and closed
magnetic field structures. This indicates that the assumption of the potential
nature of the coronal global magnetic field is not satisfied even during the
deep solar minimum. Results of our 3D density reconstruction will help to
constrain solar coronal field models and test the accuracy of the magnetic
field approximations for coronal modeling.