The High Energy cosmic-Radiation Detection (HERD) facility onboard China's
Space Station is planned for operation starting around 2020 for about 10 years.
It is designed as a next generation space facility focused on indirect dark
matter search, precise cosmic ray spectrum and composition measurements up to
the knee energy, and high energy gamma-ray monitoring and survey. The
calorimeter plays an essential role in the main scientific objectives of HERD.
A 3-D cubic calorimeter filled with high granularity crystals as active
material is a very promising choice for the calorimeter. HERD is mainly
composed of a 3-D calorimeter (CALO) surrounded by silicon trackers (TK) from
all five sides except the bottom. CALO is made of 9261 cubes of LYSO crystals,
corresponding to about 55 radiation lengths and 3 nuclear interaction lengths,
respectively. Here the simulation results of the performance of CALO with
GEANT4 and FLUKA are presented: 1) the total absorption CALO and its absorption
depth for precise energy measurements (energy resolution: 1\% for electrons and
gamma-rays beyond 100 GeV, 20\% for protons from 100 GeV to 1 PeV); 2) its
granularity for particle identification (electron/proton separation power
better than $10^{-5}$); 3) the homogenous geometry for detecting particles
arriving from every unblocked direction for large effective geometrical factor
($>$3 ${\rm m}^{2}{\rm sr}$ for electron and diffuse gamma-rays, $>$2 $ {\rm
m}^{2}{\rm sr}$ for cosmic ray nuclei); 4) expected observational results such
as gamma-ray line spectrum from dark matter annihilation and spectrum
measurement of various cosmic ray chemical components.