High-resolution Hubble Space Telescope (HST) archive imaging and
high-dispersion spectroscopy are used to study the complex morphological and
kinematical structure of the planetary nebula, NGC 2818. We analyze narrow band
H{\alpha}, [O III], [N II], [S II] and He II images, addressing important
morphological features. Ground-based longslit echelle spectra were obtained
crossing NGC 2818 at five different positions to precisely determine
kinematical features in the structure of the nebula. A distance of 2.5 kpc was
used to determine physical scales. Constructing models to fit the data with
modern computational tools, we find NGC 2818 is composed by: (1) a non-uniform
bipolar structure with a semi-major axis of 0.92 pc (75 arcsec), possibly
deformed by the stellar wind, (2) a 0.17 pc (14 arcsec) diameter central
region, which is potentially the remnant of an equatorial enhancement, and (3)
a great number of cometary knots. These knots are preferentially located inside
a radius of 0.24 pc (20 arcsec) around the central star. The ma jor axis of the
main structure is oriented at i \simeq 60\degree with respect to the
line-of-sight and at PA = +89\degree on the plane of the sky. Expansion
velocities of this nebula are Vpol = 105 km/s and Veq = 20 km/s, which lead to
our estimate of the kinematical age of {\tau}k \simeq 8,400 \pm 3, 400 yr
(assuming homologous expansion). Our observations do not support the idea that
high velocity collimated ejections are responsible for the formation of
microstructures inside the nebula. We determine the systemic velocity of NGC
2818 to be VHEL = +26 \pm 2 km/s.