The paper describes the techniques and method of registration of air shower
radio emission at the Yakutsk array of extensive air showers at a frequency of
32 MHz. At this stage, emission registration involves two set of antennas, the
distance between them is 500m. One set involves 8 antennas, second - 4
antennas. The antennas are perpendicularly crossed dipoles with radiation
pattern North South,West East and raised 1.5 m above the ground. Each set of
antennas connected to an industrial PC. The registration requires one of two
triggers. First trigger are generated by scintillation detectors of Yakutsk
array. Scintillation detectors cover area of 12 km^2 and registers air showers
with energy more than 10^17 eV. The second trigger is generated by Small
Cherenkov Array that covers area of 1 km^2 and registers air showers with
energy 10^15 - 5*10^17 eV. Small Cherenkov Array is part of Yakutsk array and
involve Cherenkov detectors located at a distance of 50, 100, 250 m. For
further selection we are using an additional criterion the radio pulse must be
localized in the area corresponding to the delay time on first and second
triggers. In addition, descriptions of the algorithm and the flowcharts of the
program for the air shower selection and further analysis are given. This
method registers EAS radio emission with energy 10^16 - 10^19 eV. With the
absolute calibration, the amplitudes of all antennas converted to a single
value. Air shower radio emission dependences from zenith angle and shower
energy are plotted.