A polydisperse system contains particles with at least one attribute $\sigma$
(such as particle size in colloids or chain length in polymers) which takes
values in a continuous range. It therefore has an infinite number of conserved
densities, described by a density {\em distribution} $\rho(\sigma)$. The free
energy depends on all details of $\rho(\sigma)$, making the analysis of phase
equilibria in such systems intractable. However, in many (especially
mean-field) models the {\em excess} free energy only depends on a finite number
of (generalized) moments of $\rho(\sigma)$; we call these models truncatable.
We show, for these models, how to derive approximate expressions for the {\em
total} free energy which only depend on such moment densities. Our treatment
unifies and explores in detail two recent separate proposals by the contributors for
the construction of such moment free energies. We show that even though the
moment free energy only depends on a finite number of density variables, it
gives the same spinodals and critical points as the original free energy and
also correctly locates the onset of phase coexistence. Results from the moment
free energy for the coexistence of two or more phases occupying comparable
volumes are only approximate, but can be refined arbitrarily by retaining
additional moment densities. Applications to Flory-Huggins theory for
length-polydisperse homopolymers, and for chemically polydisperse copolymers,
show that the moment free energy approach is computationally robust and gives
new geometrical insights into the thermodynamics of polydispersity.