This paper describes a high-resolution, infrared spectroscopic survey of
young, low-mass stars designed to identify and characterize pre-main-sequence
spectroscopic binaries. This is the first large infrared radial velocity survey
of very young stars to date. The frequency and mass ratio distribution of the
closest, low-mass binaries bear directly on models of stellar, brown dwarf, and
planetary mass companion formation. Furthermore, spectroscopic binaries can
provide mass ratios and ultimately masses, independent of assumptions, needed
to calibrate models of young star evolution. I present the initial results from
observations of a uniform sample of 33 T Tauri M stars in the Ophiuchus
molecular cloud. The average mass of this sample is less than that of other
young star radial velocity surveys of similar scope by a factor of ~2. Almost
every star was observed at 3-4 epochs over 3 years with the 10 meter Keck II
telescope and the facility infrared spectrometer NIRSPEC. An internal precision
of 0.43 km/s was obtained with standard cross-correlation calibration
techniques. Four of the targets are newly discovered spectroscopic binaries,
one of which is located in a sub-arcsecond, hierarchical quadruple system.
Three other sub-arcsecond visual binaries were also serendipitously identified
during target acquisition. The spectroscopic multiplicity of the sample is
comparable to that of earlier type, pre-main-sequence objects. Therefore, there
is no dearth of young, low-mass spectroscopic binary stars, at least in the
Ophiuchus region.