The highly dynamical, complex nature of the solar atmosphere naturally
implies the presence of waves in a topologically varied magnetic environment.
Here, the interaction of waves with topological features such as null points is
inevitable and potentially important for energetics. The low resistivity of the
solar coronal plasma implies that non-MHD effects should be considered in
studies of magnetic energy release in this environment. This paper investigates
the role of the Hall term in the propagation and dissipation of waves, their
interaction with 2D magnetic X-points and the nature of the resulting
reconnection. A Lagrangian remap shock-capturing code (Lare2d) is used to study
the evolution of an initial fast magnetoacoustic wave annulus for a range of
values of the ion skin depth in resistive Hall MHD. A magnetic null-point
finding algorithm is also used to locate and track the evolution of the
multiple null-points that are formed in the system. Depending on the ratio of
ion skin depth to system size, our model demonstrates that Hall effects can
play a key role in the wave-null interaction. In particular, the initial
fast-wave pulse now consists of whistler and ion-cyclotron components; the
dispersive nature of the whistler wave leads to (i) earlier interaction with
the null, (ii) the creation of multiple additional, transient nulls and, hence,
an increased number of energy release sites. In the Hall regime, the relevant
timescales (such as the onset of reconnection and the period of the oscillatory
relaxation) of the system are reduced significantly, and the reconnection rate
is enhanced.