The locations and amplitudes of three acoustic peaks and two dips in the last
releases of the Boomerang, MAXIMA and DASI measurements of the cosmic microwave
background (CMB) anisotropy power spectra as well as their statistical
confidence levels are determined in a model-independent way. It is shown that
the Boomerang-2001 data (Netterfield et al. 2001) fixes the location and
amplitude of the first acoustic peak at more than 3\sigma confidence level. The
next two peaks and dips are determined at a confidence level above 1\sigma but
below 2\sigma. The locations and amplitudes of the first three peaks and two
dips are 212+/-17, 5426+/-1218\mu K^2, 544+/-56, 2266+/-607\mu K^2, 843+/-35,
2077+/-876\mu K^2, 413+/-50, 1960+/-503\mu K^2, 746+/-89, 1605+/-650\mu K^2
respectively (1\sigma errors include statistical and systematic errors). The
MAXIMA and DASI experiments give similar values for the extrema which they
determine. The determined cosmological parameters from the CMB acoustic extrema
data show good agreement with other determinations, especially with the baryon
content as deduced from standard nucleosynthesis constraints. These data
supplemented by the constraints from direct measurements of some cosmological
parameters and data on large scale structure lead to a best-fit model which
agrees with practically all the used experimental data within 1\sigma. The
best-fit parameters are: \Omega_{\Lambda}=0.64^{+0.14}_{-0.27}, \Omega_{m}=
0.36^{+0.21}_{-0.11}, \Omega_b=0.047^{+0.093}_{-0.024},
n_s=1.0^{+0.59}_{-0.17}, h=0.65^{+0.35}_{-0.27} and \tau_c=0.15^{+0.95}_{-0.15}
(plus/minus values show 1\sigma upper/lower limits obtained by marginalization
over all other model parameters). The best-fit values of \Omega_{\nu} and T/S
are close to zero, their 1\sigma upper limits are 0.17 and 1.7 respectively.