The Abell 1763 superstructure at z=0.23 contains the first galaxy filament to
be directly detected using mid-infrared observations. Our previous work has
shown that the frequency of starbursting galaxies, as characterized by 24{\mu}m
emission is much higher within the filament than at either the center of the
rich galaxy cluster, or the field surrounding the system. New VLA and
XMM-Newton data are presented here. We use the radio and X-ray data to examine
the fraction and location of active galaxies, both active galactic nuclei (AGN)
and starbursts. The radio far-infrared correlation, X-ray point source
location, IRAC colors, and quasar positions are all used to gain an
understanding of the presence of dominant AGN. We find very few MIPS-selected
galaxies that are clearly dominated by AGN activity. Most radio selected
members within the filament are starbursts. Within the supercluster, 3 of 8
spectroscopic members detected both in the radio and in the mid-infrared are
radio-bright AGN. They are found at or near the core of Abell 1763. The five
starbursts are located further along the filament. We calculate the physical
properties of the known wide angle tail (WAT) source which is the brightest
cluster galaxy (BCG) of Abell 1763. A second double lobe source is found along
the filament well outside of the virial radius of either cluster. The velocity
offset of the WAT from the X-ray centroid, and the bend of the WAT in the
intracluster medium (ICM) are both consistent with ram pressure stripping,
indicative of streaming motions along the direction of the filament. We
consider this as further evidence of the cluster-feeding nature of the galaxy
filament.