The European Space Agency (ESA) Gaia satellite has 106 CCD image sensors
which will suffer from increased charge transfer inefficiency (CTI) as a result
of radiation damage. To aid the mitigation at low signal levels, the CCD design
includes Supplementary Buried Channels (SBCs, otherwise known as `notches')
within each CCD column. We present the largest published sample of Gaia CCD SBC
Full Well Capacity (FWC) laboratory measurements and simulations based on 13
devices. We find that Gaia CCDs manufactured post-2004 have SBCs with FWCs in
the upper half of each CCD that are systematically smaller by two orders of
magnitude (<50 electrons) compared to those manufactured pre-2004 (thousands of
electrons). Gaia's faint star (13 < G < 20 mag) astrometric performance
predictions by Prod'homme et al. and Holl et al. use pre-2004 SBC FWCs as
inputs to their simulations. However, all the CCDs already integrated onto the
satellite for the 2013 launch are post-2004. SBC FWC measurements are not
available for one of our five post-2004 CCDs but the fact it meets Gaia's image
location requirements suggests it has SBC FWCs similar to pre-2004. It is too
late to measure the SBC FWCs onboard the satellite and it is not possible to
theoretically predict them. Gaia's faint star astrometric performance
predictions depend on knowledge of the onboard SBC FWCs but as these are
currently unavailable, it is not known how representative of the whole focal
plane the current predictions are. Therefore, we suggest Gaia's initial
in-orbit calibrations should include measurement of the onboard SBC FWCs. We
present a potential method to do this. Faint star astrometric performance
predictions based on onboard SBC FWCs at the start of the mission would allow
satellite operating conditions or CTI software mitigation to be further
optimised to improve the scientific return of Gaia.