Theoretical work suggests that a young star's angular momentum and rotation
rate may be strongly influenced by magnetic interactions with its circumstellar
disk. A generic prediction of these 'disk-locking' (DL) theories is that a
disk-locked star will be forced to co-rotate with the Keplerian angular
velocity of the inner edge of the disk. These theories have also been
interpreted to suggest a correlation between young stars' rotation periods and
the structural properties of their disks, such that slowly rotating stars
possess close-in disks that enforce the star's slow rotation, whereas rapidly
rotating stars possess anemic or evacuated inner disks that are unable to brake
the stars and they spin up as they contract. To test these expectations, we
model the SEDs of 33 young stars in IC 348 with known rotation periods and
infrared excesses indicating the presence of disks. For each star, we match the
observed spectral energy distribution, typically sampling 0.6-8.0 \mum, to a
grid of 200,000 pre-computed star+disk radiative transfer models, from which we
infer the disk's inner-truncation radius (R_trunc). We then compare this
R_trunc to the disk's co-rotation radius (R_co), calculated from the star's
rotation period. We do not find obvious differences in the disk R_trunc of slow
vs. rapid rotators. This holds true both at the level of whether close-in disk
material is present at all, and in analyzing the precise location of the inner
disk edge relative to the R_co amongst the subset of stars with close-in disk
material. One interpretation is that DL is unimportant for the IC 348 stars in
our sample. Alternatively, if DL does operate, then it must operate on both the
slow and rapid rotators, potentially producing both spin-up and spin-down
torques, and the transition from the disk-locked state to the disk-released
state must occur more rapidly than the stellar contraction timescale.