Ad hoc networks provide a flexible, infrastructure-free means to communicate
between soldiers in war zones, aid workers in disaster areas, or consumers in
device-to-device (D2D) applications. Ad hoc networks, however, are still
plagued by interference caused by uncoordinated transmissions which leads to
poor scaling due to distributed coordination. Communication with
millimeter-wave (mmWave) devices offers hope to \emph{ad hoc} networks through
higher bandwidth, reduced interference due to directional antennas, and weaker
interference power due to building blockage. This paper uses a stochastic
geometry approach to characterize the one-way and two-way
signal-to-interference ratio (SINR) distribution of a mmWave ad hoc network
with directional antennas, random blockages, and ALOHA channel access. The
effect of random receiver location is quantified which shows that random
receiver distances do not alter the SINR distribution beyond knowledge of the
mean receiver position. A method for computing the distribution of mmWave ad
hoc interference-to-noise ratio which shows that mmWave ad hoc networks can
still be interference limited. Several reasonable simplifications are used to
derive the transmission capacity and area spectral efficiency. The performance
of mmWave is then analyzed in terms of rate coverage. The results show that
mmWave networks can support higher densities and larger spectral efficiencies,
even in the presence of blockage, compared with lower frequency communication
for certain link distances. Due to the increased bandwidth, the rate coverage
of mmWave can be much greater than lower frequency devices.