We present a deep X-ray ROSAT/HRI observation of the rich cluster-lens Abell
2390 and the analysis of the gas and matter distribution in the cluster. The
X-ray centroid coincides with the location of the central cD galaxy, and the
core appears to be dominated by a massive cooling flow, one of the strongest
ones ever studied. On larger scales, the X-ray distribution is elliptical and
locally distorted by a significant ``sub-structure" located some 100 $h^{-1}$
kpc from the center. The mass of this sub-structureis estimated to be $\sim$
1/20 of the total cluster mass and appears tobe associated with an enhancement
in the galaxy distribution, in the region where the giant ``straight arc" and
several arclets are observed. A simple lens model basedon the geometrical
properties of the X-ray gas shows that this sub-structure allows to explain in
a simple manner the peculiar shape of the arc and puts strong constraints on
the total mass distribution in the central part of this cluster. The derived
M/L in the central part of the cluster is found to be around 250 in solar
units, a rather common value compared with other cluster-lenses. Moreover, the
link between the matter distribution derived from the lens model and the
density profile issued from the X-ray map analysis is used to infer the
temperature profile in the cluster. This profile shows a significant decrease
near the center, in agreement with the existence of the cooling flow. Both
X-ray and lensing constraints are tied together to give a consistent picture of
the dynamics of the central part of A2390.