The stellar population of the Pegasus dwarf irregular galaxy is investigated
in images taken in the F439W (B), F555W (V), and F814W (I) bands with WFPC2.
These and ground-based data are combined to produce color-magnitude diagrams
which show the complex nature of the stellar population in this small galaxy. A
young (< 0.5 Gyr) main sequence stellar component is present and clustered in
two centrally-located clumps, while older stars form a more extended disk or
halo. The colors of the main sequence require a relatively large extinction of
A_V = 0.47 mag. The mean color of the well-populated red giant branch is
relatively blue, consistent with a moderate metallicity young, or older,
metal-poor stellar population. The red giant branch also has significant width
in color, implying a range of stellar ages and/or metallicities. A small number
of extended asymptotic giant branch stars are found beyond the red giant branch
tip. Near the faint limits of our data is a populous red clump superimposed on
the red giant branch. Efforts to fit self-consistent stellar population models
based on the Geneva stellar evolution tracks yield a revised distance of 760
kpc. Quantitative fits to the stellar population are explored as a means to
constrain the star formation history. The numbers of main sequence and core
helium-burning blue loop stars require that the star formation rate was higher
in the recent past, by a factor of 3-4 about 1 Gyr ago. Unique results cannot
be obtained for the star formation history over longer time baselines without
better information on stellar metallicities and deeper photometry. The youngest
model consistent with the data contains stars with constant metallicity of Z =
0.001 which mainly formed 2-4 Gyr ago. Even at its peak of star forming
activity, the Pegasus dwarf most likely remained relatively dim with M_V ~ -14.