We analyze publicly available void catalogs of the Baryon Oscillation
Spectroscopic Survey Data Release 10 at redshifts $0.4<z<0.7$. The first goal
of this paper is to extend the Cosmic Microwave Background stacking analysis of
previous spectroscopic void samples at $z<0.4$. In addition, the DR10 void
catalog provides the first chance to spectroscopically probe the volume of the
Granett et al. (2008) supervoid catalog that constitutes the only set of voids
which has shown a significant detection of a cross-correlation signal between
void locations and average CMB chill. We found that the positions of voids
identified in the spectroscopic DR10 galaxy catalog typically do not coincide
with the locations of the Granett et al. supervoids in the overlapping volume,
in spite of the presence of large underdense regions of high void-density in
DR10. This failure to locate the same structures with spectroscopic redshifts
may arise due to systematic differences in the properties of voids detected in
photometric and spectroscopic samples. In the stacking measurement, we first
find a $\Delta T = - 11.5 \pm 3.7~\mu K$ imprint for 35 of the 50 Granett et
al. supervoids available in the DR10 volume. For the DR10 void catalog, lacking
a prior on the number of voids to be considered in the stacking analysis, we
find that the correlation measurement is fully consistent with no correlation.
However, the measurement peaks with amplitude $\Delta T = - 9.8 \pm 4.8~\mu K$
for the a posteriori-selected 44 largest voids of size $R>65~Mpc/h$ that does
match in terms of amplitude and number of structures the Granett et al.
observation, although at different void positions.