We present two models for estimating the probabilities of future earthquakes
in California, to be tested in the Collaboratory for the Study of Earthquake
Predictability (CSEP). The first, time-independent model, modified from
Helmstetter et al. (2007), provides five-year forecasts for magnitudes m >
4.95. We show that large quakes occur on average near the locations of small m
> 2 events, so that a high-resolution estimate of the spatial distribution of
future large quakes is obtained from the locations of the numerous small
events. We employ an adaptive spatial kernel of optimized bandwidth and assume
a universal, tapered Gutenberg-Richter distribution. In retrospective tests, we
show that no Poisson forecast could capture the observed variability. We
therefore also test forecasts using a negative binomial distribution for the
number of events. We modify existing likelihood-based tests to better evaluate
the spatial forecast. Our time-dependent model, an Epidemic Type Aftershock
Sequence (ETAS) model modified from Helmstetter et al. (2006), provides
next-day forecasts for m > 3.95. The forecasted rate is the sum of a background
rate, proportional to our time-independent model, and of the triggered events
due to all prior earthquakes. Each earthquake triggers events with a rate that
increases exponentially with its magnitude and decays in time according to
Omori's law. An isotropic kernel models the spatial density of aftershocks for
small (< 5.5) events. For larger quakes, we smooth early aftershocks to
forecast later events. We estimate parameters by optimizing retrospective
forecasts. Our short-term model realizes a gain of about 6.0 over the
time-independent model.