The Spitzer Infrared Nearby Galaxies Survey (SINGS) is carrying out a
comprehensive multi-wavelength survey on a sample of 75 nearby galaxies. The
1-850um spectral energy distributions are presented using broadband imaging
data from Spitzer, 2MASS, ISO, IRAS, and SCUBA. The infrared colors derived
from the globally-integrated Spitzer data are generally consistent with the
previous generation of models that were developed based on global data for
normal star-forming galaxies, though significant deviations are observed.
Spitzer's excellent sensitivity and resolution also allow a detailed
investigation of the infrared spectral energy distributions for various
locations within the three large, nearby galaxies NGC3031 (M81), NGC5194 (M51),
and NGC7331. Strong correlations exist between the local star formation rate
and the infrared colors f_nu(70um)/f_nu(160um) and f_nu(24um)/f_nu(160um),
suggesting that the 24 and 70um emission are useful tracers of the local star
formation activity level. Preliminary evidence indicates that variations in the
24um emission, and not variations in the emission from polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons at 8um, drive the variations in the f_nu(8.0um)/f_nu(24um) colors
within NGC3031, NGC5194, and NGC7331. If the galaxy-to-galaxy variations in
spectral energy distributions seen in our sample are representative of the
range present at high redshift then extrapolations of total infrared
luminosities and star formation rates from the observed 24um flux will be
uncertain at the factor-of-five level (total range). The corresponding
uncertainties using the redshifted 8.0um flux (e.g. observed 24um flux for a
z=2 source) are factors of 10-20. Considerable caution should be used when
interpreting such extrapolated infrared luminosities.