Context: Infrared-Faint Radio Sources (IFRS) are characterised by relatively
high radio flux densities and associated faint or even absent infrared and
optical counterparts. The resulting extremely high radio-to-infrared flux
density ratios up to several thousands were previously known only for
High-redshift Radio Galaxies (HzRGs), suggesting a link between the two classes
of object. Prior to this work, no redshift was known for any IFRS in the
Australia Telescope Large Area Survey (ATLAS) fields which would help to put
IFRS in the context of other classes of object, especially of HzRGs. Aims: This
work aims at measuring the first redshifts of IFRS in the ATLAS fields.
Further, we test the hypothesis that IFRS are similar to HzRGs, as
higher-redshift or dust-obscured versions of these massive galaxies. Methods: A
sample of IFRS was spectroscopically observed using the Focal Reducer and Low
Dispersion Spectrograph 2 (FORS2) at the Very Large Telescope (VLT). The data
were calibrated based on the Image Reduction and Analysis Facility (IRAF) and
redshifts extracted. This information was then used to calculate rest-frame
luminosities, and to perform the first spectral energy distribution modelling
of IFRS based on redshifts. Results: We found redshifts of 1.84, 2.13, and
2.76, for three IFRS, confirming the suggested high-redshift character of this
class of object. These redshifts as well as the resulting luminosities show
IFRS to be similar to HzRGs. We found further evidence that fainter IFRS are at
even higher redshifts. Conclusions: Considering the similarities between IFRS
and HzRGs substantiated in this work, the detection of IFRS, which have a
significantly higher sky density than HzRGs, increases the number of Active
Galactic Nuclei in the early universe and adds to the problems of explaining
the formation of supermassive black holes shortly after the Big Bang.