The Galaxy And Mass Assembly (GAMA) project is the latest in a tradition of
large galaxy redshift surveys, and is now underway on the 3.9m Anglo-Australian
Telescope at Siding Spring Observatory. GAMA is designed to map extragalactic
structures on scales of 1kpc - 1Mpc in complete detail to a redshift of z~0.2,
and to trace the distribution of luminous galaxies out to z~0.5. The principal
science aim is to test the standard hierarchical structure formation paradigm
of Cold Dark Matter (CDM) on scales of galaxy groups, pairs, discs, bulges and
bars. We will measure (1) the Dark Matter Halo Mass Function (as inferred from
galaxy group velocity dispersions); (2) baryonic processes, such as star
formation and galaxy formation efficiency (as derived from Galaxy Stellar Mass
Functions); and (3) the evolution of galaxy merger rates (via galaxy close
pairs and galaxy asymmetries). Additionally, GAMA will form the central part of
a new galaxy database, which aims to contain 275,000 galaxies with
multi-wavelength coverage from coordinated observations with the latest
international ground- and space-based facilities: GALEX, VST, VISTA, WISE,
HERSCHEL, GMRT and ASKAP. Together, these data will provide increased depth
(over 2 magnitudes), doubled spatial resolution (0.7"), and significantly
extended wavelength coverage (UV through Far-IR to radio) over the main SDSS
spectroscopic survey for five regions, each of around 50 deg^2. This database
will permit detailed investigations of the structural, chemical, and dynamical
properties of all galaxy types, across all environments, and over a 5 billion
year timeline.