High-resolution spectroscopy of U Gem was obtained during quiescence. We did
not find a hot spot or gas stream around the outer boundaries of the accretion
disk. Instead, we detected a strong narrow emission near the location of the
secondary star. We measured the radial velocity curve from the wings of the
double-peaked H$\alpha$ emission line, and obtained a semi-amplitude value that
is in excellent agreement with the obtained from observations in the
ultraviolet spectral region by Sion et al. (1998). We present also a new method
to obtain K_2, which enhances the detection of absorption or emission features
arising in the late-type companion. Our results are compared with published
values derived from the near-infrared NaI line doublet. From a comparison of
the TiO band with those of late type M stars, we find that a best fit is
obtained for a M6V star, contributing 5 percent of the total light at that
spectral region. Assuming that the radial velocity semi-amplitudes reflect
accurately the motion of the binary components, then from our results: K_em =
107+/-2 km/s; K_abs = 310+/-5 km/s, and using the inclination angle given by
Zhang & Robinson(1987); i = 69.7+/-0.7, the system parameters become: M_WD =
1.20+/-0.05 M_sun,; M_RD = 0.42+/-0.04 M_sun; and a = 1.55+/- 0.02 R_sun. Based
on the separation of the double emission peaks, we calculate an outer disk
radius of R_out/a ~0.61, close to the distance of the inner Lagrangian point
L_1/a~0.63. Therefore we suggest that, at the time of observations, the
accretion disk was filling the Roche-Lobe of the primary, and that the matter
leaving the L_1 point was colliding with the disc directly, producing the hot
spot at this location.