[Abridged] Deep optical observations of the spectra of 12 Galactic planetary
nebulae (PNe) and 3 Magellanic Cloud PNe were presented in Paper I by Tsamis et
al. (2003b), who carried out an abundance analysis using the collisionally
excited forbidden lines. Here, the relative intensities of faint optical
recombination lines (ORLs) from ions of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen are
analysed in order to derive the abundances of these ions relative to hydrogen.
We define an abundance discrepancy factor (ADF) as the ratio of the abundance
derived for a heavy element ion from its recombination lines to that derived
for the same ion from its ultraviolet, optical or infrared collisionally
excited lines (CELs). All of the PNe in our sample are found to have ADF's that
exceed unity. There is no dependence of the magnitude of the ADF upon the
excitation energy of the UV, optical or IR CEL transition used, indicating that
classical nebular temperature fluctuations--i.e. in a chemically homogeneous
medium--are not the cause of the observed abundance discrepancies. Instead, we
conclude that the main cause of the discrepancy is enhanced ORL emission from
cold ionized gas located in hydrogen-deficient clumps inside the main body of
the nebulae. We have developed a new electron temperature diagnostic, based
upon the relative intensities of the OII 4f-3d 4089A and 3p-3s 4649A
recombination transitions. For six out of eight PNe for which both transitions
are detected, we derive O2+ ORL electron temperatures of <300 K, very much less
than the O2+ forbidden-line and Balmer jump temperatures derived for the same
nebulae. These results provide direct observational evidence for the presence
of H-deficient, cold plasma regions within the nebulae, consistent with gas
cooled largely by infrared fine structure and recombination transitions.