A mechanism of sympatric speciation is presented based on the
interaction-induced developmental plasticity of phenotypes. First, phenotypes
of individuals with identical genotypes split into a few groups, according to
instability in the developmental dynamics that are triggered with the
competitive interaction among individuals. Then, through mutational change of
genes, the phenotypic differences are fixed to genes, until the groups are
completely separated in genes as well as phenotypes. It is also demonstrated
that the proposed theory leads to hybrid sterility under sexual recombination,
and thus speciation is completed in the sense of reproductive isolation. As a
result of this post-mating isolation, the mating preference evolves later. When
there are two alleles, the correlation between alleles is formed, to
consolidate the speciation. When individuals are located in space, different
species are later segregated spatially, implying that the speciation so far
regarded to be allopatric may be a result of sympatric speciation.
Relationships with previous theories, frequency-dependent selection,
reinforcement, Baldwin's effect, phenotypic plasticity, and resource
competition are briefly discussed. Relevance of the results to natural
evolution are discussed, including punctuated equilibrium, incomplete
penetrance in mutants, and the change in flexibility in genotype-phenotype
correspondence. Finally, it is discussed how our theory is confirmed both in
field and in laboratory (in an experiment with the use of E coli.).