We study the influence of convection on the asymmetries and Doppler shifts of
Fe I spectral lines in the metal-poor red giant HD 122563. To this end, we
compute theoretical Fe I line shifts and line bisectors using 3D hydrodynamical
model atmosphere of HD 122563 calculated with the CO5BOLD code. We then make a
detailed comparison of the theoretical line shifts and bisectors with those
derived from the high quality HARPS spectrum of HD 122563 taken from the ESO
Science Archive Facility (R = 115 000, average signal-to-noise ratio, S/N =
310). In general, we find a good agreement between the theoretically predicted
and observed Doppler shifts of Fe I line cores, with somewhat larger
discrepancies seen in the case of weaker (equivalent width W < 5 pm) and
stronger lines (W > 11 pm). Both observed and theoretical coreshifts cover a
range between 0 and -1 km/s, with increasingly stronger blueshifts for weaker
lines and slight hints of a coreshift dependence on wavelength. Theoretical
bisectors reproduce the observed ones reasonably well too, however, theoretical
bisectors of the weak red (lambda > 600 nm) Fe I lines have blueshifts that are
by up to 200 m/s larger than observed. The obtained results therefore suggest
that the current CO5BOLD models are capable of reproducing the large-scale
velocity fields in the atmosphere of HD 122563 suficiently well. Nevertheless,
further efforts are needed in order to understand the physical reasons behind
the discrepancies in theoretical predictions and observed properties of the
weakest and strongest Fe I lines.