Numerous indoor localization techniques have been proposed recently to meet
the intensive demand for location based service, and Wi-Fi fingerprint-based
approaches are the most popular and inexpensive solutions. Among them, one of
the main trends is to incorporate the built-in sensors of smartphone and to
exploit crowdsourcing potentials. However the noisy built-in sensors and
multi-tasking limitation of underline OS often hinder the effectiveness of
these schemes. In this work, we propose a passive crowdsourcing CSI-based
indoor localization scheme, C2 IL. Our scheme C2 IL only requires the
locating-device (e.g., a phone) to have a 802.11n wireless connection, and it
does not rely on inertial sensors only existing in some smartphones. C2 IL is
built upon our innovative method to accurately estimate the moving distance
purely based on 802.11n Channel State Information (CSI). Our extensive
evaluations show that the moving distance estimation error of our scheme is
within 3% of the actual moving distance regardless of varying speeds and
environment. Relying on the accurate moving distance estimation as constraints,
we are able to construct a more accurate mapping between RSS fingerprints and
location. To address the challenges of collecting fingerprints, a
crowdsourcing- based scheme is designed to gradually establish the mapping and
populate the fingerprints. In C2 IL, we design a trajectory clustering-based
localization algorithm to provide precise real-time indoor localization and
tracking. We developed and deployed a practical working system of C2 IL in a
large office environment. Extensive evaluation results indicate that our scheme
C2 IL provides accurate localization with error 2m at 80% at very complex
indoor environment with minimal overhead.