We report on the search for Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs) in the energy range 1-100
GeV in coincidence with the prompt emission detected by satellites using the
Astrophysical Radiation with Ground-based Observatory at YangBaJing (ARGO-YBJ)
air shower detector. Thanks to its mountain location (Yangbajing, Tibet, P.R.
China, 4300 m a.s.l.), active surface (about 6700 m**2 of Resistive Plate
Chambers), and large field of view (about 2 sr, limited only by the atmospheric
absorption), the ARGO-YBJ air shower detector is particularly suitable for the
detection of unpredictable and short duration events such as GRBs. The search
is carried out using the "single particle technique", i.e. counting all the
particles hitting the detector without measurement of the energy and arrival
direction of the primary gamma rays.
  Between 2004 December 17 and 2009 April 7, 81 GRBs detected by satellites
occurred within the field of view of ARGO-YBJ (zenith angle < 45 deg). It was
possible to examine 62 of these for >1 GeV counterpart in the ARGO-YBJ data
finding no statistically significant emission. With a lack of detected spectra
in this energy range fluence upper limits are profitable, especially when the
redshift is known and the correction for the extragalactic absorption can be
considered. The obtained fluence upper limits reach values as low as 10**{-5}
erg cm**{-2} in the 1-100 GeV energy region.
  Besides this individual search for a higher energy counterpart, a statistical
study of the stack of all the GRBs both in time and in phase was made, looking
for a common feature in the GRB high energy emission. No significant signal has
been detected.