We report results of a high-resolution imaging search (in rest frame
H-$\alpha$ and optical continuum) for the galaxy associated with the damped
Lyman-$\alpha$ (DLA) absorber at $z=1.892$ toward the $z_{em}=2.543$ quasar
LBQS 1210+1731, using HST/NICMOS. After PSF subtraction, a feature is seen in
both the broad-band and narrow-band images, at a projected separation of
0.25$\arcsec$ from the quasar. If associated with the DLA, the object would be
$\approx 2-3$ $h_{70}^{-1}$ kpc in size with a flux of $9.8 \pm 2.4$ $\mu$Jy in
the F160W filter, implying a luminosity at $\lambda_{central}=5500$ {\AA} in
the rest frame of $1.5 \times 10^{10}$ $h_{70}^{-2}$ L$_{\odot}$ at $z=1.89$,
for $q_{0}=0.5$. However, no significant H-$\alpha$ emission is seen,
suggesting a low star formation rate (SFR) (3 $\sigma$ upper limit of 4.0
$h_{70}^{-2}$ M$_{\odot}$ yr$^{-1}$), or very high dust obscuration.
Alternatively, the object may be associated with the host galaxy of the quasar.
H-band images obtained with the NICMOS camera 2 coronagraph show a much fainter
structure $\approx 4-5$ $h_{70}^{-1}$ kpc in size and containing four knots of
continuum emission, located 0.7$\arcsec$ away from the quasar. We have probed
regions far closer to the quasar sight-line than in most previous studies of
high-redshift intervening DLAs. The two objects we report mark the closest
detected high-redshift DLA candidates yet to any quasar sight line. If the
features in our images are associated with the DLA, they suggest faint,
compact, somewhat clumpy objects rather than large, well-formed proto-galactic
disks or spheroids.