The nucleation and structure of silicon nanocrystals formed by different
preparation conditions and silicon concentration (28 - 70 area %) have been
studied using Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Energy Filtered TEM
(EFTEM) and Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy (SIMS). The nanocrystals were
formed after heat treatment at high temperature of a sputtered 10 nm thick
silicon rich oxide on 3 nm SiO$_2$ layer made by Rapid Thermal Oxidation (RTO)
of silicon. Nanocrystals precipitate when the excess silicon concentration
exceeds 50 area %. Below this percentage amorphous silicon nanoclusters were
found. In-situ heat treatment of the samples in the TEM showed that the
crystallization requires a temperature above 800$^o$C. The nanocrystals
precipitate in a 4 nm band, 5 nm from the Si substrate and 4 nm from the
SiO$_2$ sample surface. The silicon nucleates where the excess Si concentration
is the highest. The top surface has less excess Si due to reaction with oxygen
from the ambient during annealing. The SiO$_2$-RTO layer is more Si rich due to
Si diffusion from the SiO$_2$-Si layer into RTO. Twinning and stacking faults
were found in nanocrystals with 4-10 nm in diameter. These types of defects may
have large effects upon the usability of the material in electronic devices.
Both single and double twin boundaries have been found in the nanocrystals by
high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). Image simulations
were carried out in order to obtain more information about the defects and
nanocrystals. The stacking faults are extrinsic and located in the twin
boundaries.