We study torsional Alfv\'en oscillations of magnetars, i.e., neutron stars
with a strong magnetic field. We consider the poloidal and toroidal components
of the magnetic field and a wide range of equilibrium stellar models. We use a
new coordinate system (X,Y), where $X=\sqrt{a_1} \sin \theta$,
$Y=\sqrt{a_1}\cos \theta$ and $a_1$ is the radial component of the magnetic
field. In this coordinate system, the 1+2-dimensional evolution equation
describing the quasi-periodic oscillations, QPOs, see Sotani et al. (2007), is
reduced to a 1+1-dimensional equation, where the perturbations propagate only
along the Y-axis. We solve the 1+1-dimensional equation for different boundary
conditions and open magnetic field lines, i.e., magnetic field lines that reach
the surface and there match up with the exterior dipole magnetic field, as well
as closed magnetic lines, i.e., magnetic lines that never reach the stellar
surface. For the open field lines, we find two families of QPOs frequencies; a
family of "lower" QPOs frequencies which is located near the X-axis and a
family of "upper" frequencies located near the Y-axis. According to Levin
(2007), the fundamental frequencies of these two families can be interpreted as
the turning points of a continuous spectrum. We find that the upper frequencies
are constant multiples of the lower frequencies with a constant equaling 2n+1.
For the closed lines, the corresponding factor is n+1 . By these relations, we
can explain both the lower and the higher observed frequencies in SGR 1806-20
and SGR 1900+14.