Use of web pages providing unstructured information poses variety of problems
to the user, such as use of arbitrary formats, unsuitability for machine
processing and likely incompleteness of information. Structured data alleviates
these problems but we require more. Very often yellow page systems are
implemented using a centralized database. In some cases, human intermediaries
accessible over the phone network examine a centralized database and use their
reasoning ability to deal with the user's need for information. Scaling up such
systems is difficult. This paper explores an alternative - a highly distributed
system design meeting a variety of needs - considerably reducing efforts
required at a central organization, enabling large numbers of vendors to enter
information about their own products and services, enabling end-users to
contribute information such as their own ratings, using an ontology to describe
each domain of application in a flexible manner for uses foreseen and
unforeseen, enabling distributed search and mash-ups, use of vendor independent
standards, using reasoning to find the best matches to a given query,
geo-spatial reasoning and a simple, interactive, mobile application/interface.
We give importance to geo-spatial information and mobile applications because
of the very wide-spread use of mobile phones and their inherent ability to
provide some information about the current location of the user. We have
created a prototype using the Jena Toolkit and geo-spatial extensions to
SPARQL. We have tested this prototype by asking a group of typical users to use
it and to provide structured feedback. We have summarized this feedback in the
paper. We believe that the technology can be applied in many contexts in
addition to yellow page systems.