Cornaton et al. [2007] introduced the concept of lifetime expectancy as a
performance measure of the safety of subsurface repositories, based upon the
travel time for contaminants released at a certain point in the subsurface to
reach the biosphere or compliance area. The methodologies are applied to a
hypothetical but realistic Canadian Shield crystalline rock environment, which
is considered to be one of the most geologically stable areas on Earth. In an
approximately 10\times10\times1.5 km3 hypothetical study area, up to 1000 major
and intermediate fracture zones are generated from surface lineament analyses
and subsurface surveys. In the study area, mean and probability density of
lifetime expectancy are analyzed with realistic geologic and hydrologic shield
settings in order to demonstrate the applicability of the theory and the
numerical model for optimally locating a deep subsurface repository for the
safe storage of spent nuclear fuel. The results demonstrate that, in general,
groundwater lifetime expectancy increases with depth and it is greatest inside
major matrix blocks. Various sources and aspects of uncertainty are considered,
specifically geometric and hydraulic parameters of permeable fracture zones.
Sensitivity analyses indicate that the existence and location of permeable
fracture zones and the relationship between fracture zone permeability and
depth from ground surface are the most significant factors for lifetime
expectancy distribution in such a crystalline rock environment. As a
consequence, it is successfully demonstrated that the concept of lifetime
expectancy can be applied to siting and performance assessment studies for deep
geologic repositories in crystalline fractured rock settings.