We have mapped the water maser emission associated with the infrared centers
IRS1 and IRS3 of the NGC 2071IR star forming region at four epochs over ~4
months with the Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA). We detected 269 maser features
with ~1 km/sec linewidths and measured 30 proper motions. In each infrared
center, the water maser emission appears to trace parts of a protostellar disk
and collimated outflow. The disk components are ~9 and ~17 AU long, in IRS3 and
IRS1 respectively, and ~2 AU wide. They are identified as disks by their
compact size, elongation parallel to the direction of known IR polarization,
central location in the maser maps, small internal proper motions, and
proximity to 1.3 cm continuum emission. The outflows have axes perpendicular to
the disks and exhibit proper motions of up to ~42 km/sec. They are outlined by
maser emission up to ~260 AU from the protostars. The IRS3 outflow appears to
be conical on one side, while the IRS1 outflow comprises a narrowly collimated
bipolar flow surrounded by outward-facing, funnel-shaped cavities. The
detection of water maser emission tracing such compact disk components and
specifically conical or funnel-shaped structures is unusual. The fact that the
distributions are similar in IRS3 and IRS1 may indicate the two infrared
centers are roughly coeval. NGC 2071IR provides a rare opportunity to resolve
the structures and dynamics of disks and outflows together, and to do so for
two protostars that are only ~2000 AU apart (in projection) in a deeply
embedded star forming region of intermediate luminosity.