We present the results of a joint observational campaign between the Green
Bank radio telescope and the VERITAS gamma-ray telescope, which searched for a
correlation between the emission of very-high-energy (VHE) gamma rays
($E_{\gamma} >$ 150 GeV) and Giant Radio Pulses (GRPs) from the Crab pulsar at
8.9 GHz. A total of 15366 GRPs were recorded during 11.6 hours of simultaneous
observations, which were made across four nights in December 2008 and in
November and December 2009. We searched for an enhancement of the pulsed
gamma-ray emission within time windows placed around the arrival time of the
GRP events. In total, 8 different time windows with durations ranging from
0.033 ms to 72 s were positioned at three different locations relative to the
GRP to search for enhanced gamma-ray emission which lagged, led, or was
concurrent with, the GRP event. Further, we performed separate searches on main
pulse GRPs and interpulse GRPs and on the most energetic GRPs in our data
sample. No significant enhancement of pulsed VHE emission was found in any of
the preformed searches. We set upper limits of 5-10 times the average VHE flux
of the Crab pulsar on the flux simultaneous with interpulse GRPs on
single-rotation-period time scales. On $\sim$8-second time scales around
interpulse GRPs, we set an upper limit of 2-3 times the average VHE flux.
Within the framework of recent models for pulsed VHE emission from the Crab
pulsar, the expected VHE-GRP emission correlations are below the derived
limits.