As we move through cities in our daily lives, we are in a constant state of
transformation of the spaces around us. The form and essence of urban space
directly affects people's behavior, describing in their perception what is
possible or impossible, allowed or prohibited, suggested or advised against. We
are now able to fill and stratify space/time with digital information layers,
completely wrapping cities in a membrane of information and of opportunities
for interaction and communication. Mobile devices, smartphones, wearables,
digital tags, near field communication devices, location based services and
mixed/augmented reality have gone much further in this direction, turning the
world into an essentially read/write, ubiquitous publishing surface. The usage
of mobile devices and ubiquitous technologies alters the understanding of
place. In this process, the definition of (urban) landscape powerfully shifts
from a definition which is purely administrative (e.g.: the borders of the
flower bed in the middle of a roundabout) to one that is multiplied according
to all individuals which experience that location; as a lossless sum of their
perceptions; as a stratification of interpretations and activities which forms
our cognition of space and time. In our research we investigated the
possibilities to use the scenario which sees urban spaces progressively filling
with multiple layers of real-time, ubiquitous, digital information to
conceptualize, design and implement a series of usage scenarios. It is possible
to create multiple layers of narratives which traverse the city and which allow
us to read them in different ways, according to the different strategies and
methodologies enabling us to highlight how cities express points of view on the
environment, culture, economy, transports, energy and politics.