Lunar laser ranging (LLR) has made major contributions to our understanding
of the Moon's internal structure and the dynamics of the Earth-Moon system.
Because of the recent improvements of the ground-based laser ranging
facilities, the present LLR measurement accuracy is limited by the
retro-reflectors currently on the lunar surface, which are arrays of small
corner-cubes. Because of lunar librations, the surfaces of these arrays do not,
in general, point directly at the Earth. This effect results in a spread of
arrival times, because each cube that comprises the retroreflector is at a
slightly different distance from the Earth, leading to the reduced ranging
accuracy. Thus, a single, wide aperture corner-cube could have a clear
advantage. In addition, after nearly four decades of successful operations the
retro-reflectors arrays currently on the Moon started to show performance
degradation; as a result, they yield still useful, but much weaker return
signals. Thus, fresh and bright instruments on the lunar surface are needed to
continue precision LLR measurements. We have developed a new retro-reflector
design to enable advanced LLR operations. It is based on a single, hollow
corner cube with a large aperture for which preliminary thermal, mechanical,
and optical design and analysis have been performed. The new instrument will be
able to reach an Earth-Moon range precision of 1-mm in a single pulse while
being subjected to significant thermal variations present on the lunar surface,
and will have low mass to allow robotic deployment. Here we report on our
design results and instrument development effort.