We present the results of a deep, wide-field CCD survey for the open cluster
NGC~3532. Our new $BV(RI)_{c}$ photometry effectively covers a one square
degree area and reaches an unprecedented depth of $V\sim21$ to reveal that
NGC~3532 is a rich open cluster that harbors a large number of faint, low-mass
stars. We employ a number of methods to reduce the impact of field star
contamination in the cluster color-magnitude diagrams, including supplementing
our photometry with $JHK_{s}$ data from the 2MASS catalog. These efforts allow
us to define a robust sample of candidate main sequence stars suitable for a
purely empirical determination of the cluster's parameters by comparing them to
the well-established Hyades main sequence. Our results confirm previous
findings that NGC~3532 lies fairly near to the Sun [$(m-M)_0=8.46\pm0.05$;
$492^{+12}_{-11}$~pc] and has an extremely low reddening for its location near
the Galactic plane [$E(B-V)=0.028\pm0.006$]. Moreover, an age of $\sim300$\,Myr
has been derived for the cluster by fitting a set of overshooting isochrones to
the well-populated upper main-sequence. This new photometry also extends faint
enough to reach the cluster white dwarf sequence, as confirmed by our
photometric recovery of eight spectroscopically identified members of the
cluster. Using the location of these eight members, along with the latest
theoretical cooling tracks, we have identified $\sim30$ additional white dwarf
stars in the $[V,~(B-V)]$ color-magnitude diagram that have a high probability
of belonging to NGC~3532. The age we derive from fitting white dwarf isochrones
to the locus of these stars, $300\pm100$\,Myr, is consistent with the age
derived from the turnoff. Our analysis of the photometry also includes an
estimation of the binary star fraction, as well as a determination of the
cluster's luminosity and mass functions.