Einstein Probe is a small mission dedicated to time-domain high-energy
astrophysics. Its primary goals are to discover high-energy transients and to
monitor variable objects in the $0.5-4~$keV X-rays, at higher sensitivity by
one order of magnitude than those of the ones currently in orbit. Its
wide-field imaging capability, featuring a large instantaneous field-of-view
($60^\circ \times60^\circ$, $\sim1.1$sr), is achieved by using established
technology of micro-pore (MPO) lobster-eye optics, thereby offering
unprecedentedly high sensitivity and large Grasp. To complement this powerful
monitoring ability, it also carries a narrow-field, sensitive follow-up X-ray
telescope based on the same MPO technology to perform follow-up observations of
newly-discovered transients. Public transient alerts will be downlinked
rapidly, so as to trigger multi-wavelength follow-up observations from the
world-wide community. Over three of its 97-minute orbits almost the entire
night sky will be sampled, with cadences ranging from 5 to 25 times per day.
The scientific objectives of the mission are: to discover otherwise quiescent
black holes over all astrophysical mass scales by detecting their rare X-ray
transient flares, particularly tidal disruption of stars by massive black holes
at galactic centers; to detect and precisely locate the electromagnetic sources
of gravitational-wave transients; to carry out systematic surveys of X-ray
transients and characterize the variability of X-ray sources. Einstein Probe
has been selected as a candidate mission of priority (no further selection
needed) in the Space Science Programme of the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
aiming for launch around 2020.