WLAN localization has become an active research field recently. Due to the
wide WLAN deployment, WLAN localization provides ubiquitous coverage and adds
to the value of the wireless network by providing the location of its users
without using any additional hardware. However, WLAN localization systems
usually require constructing a radio map, which is a major barrier of WLAN
localization systems' deployment. The radio map stores information about the
signal strength from different signal strength streams at selected locations in
the site of interest. Typical construction of a radio map involves measurements
and calibrations making it a tedious and time-consuming operation. In this
paper, we present the AROMA system that automatically constructs accurate
active and passive radio maps for both device-based and device-free WLAN
localization systems. AROMA has three main goals: high accuracy, low
computational requirements, and minimum user overhead. To achieve high
accuracy, AROMA uses 3D ray tracing enhanced with the uniform theory of
diffraction (UTD) to model the electric field behavior and the human shadowing
effect. AROMA also automates a number of routine tasks, such as importing
building models and automatic sampling of the area of interest, to reduce the
user's overhead. Finally, AROMA uses a number of optimization techniques to
reduce the computational requirements. We present our system architecture and
describe the details of its different components that allow AROMA to achieve
its goals. We evaluate AROMA in two different testbeds. Our experiments show
that the predicted signal strength differs from the measurements by a maximum
average absolute error of 3.18 dBm achieving a maximum localization error of
2.44m for both the device-based and device-free cases.