The effects of wind-driven star formation feedback on the spatio-temporal
organization of stars and gas in galaxies is studied using two-dimensional
intermediate-representational quasi-hydrodynamical simulations. The model
retains only a reduced subset of the physics, including mass and momentum
conservation, fully nonlinear fluid advection, inelastic macroscopic
interactions, threshold star formation, and momentum forcing by winds from
young star clusters on the surrounding gas. Expanding shells of swept-up gas
evolve through the action of fluid advection to form a ``turbulent'' network of
interacting shell fragments whose overall appearance is a web of filaments (in
two dimensions). A new star cluster is formed whenever the column density
through a filament exceeds a critical threshold based on the gravitational
instability criterion for an expanding shell, which then generates a new
expanding shell after some time delay. A filament- finding algorithm is
developed to locate the potential sites of new star formation. The major result
is the dominance of multiple interactions between advectively-distorted shells
in controlling the gas and star morphology, gas velocity distribution and mass
spectrum of high mass density peaks, and the global star formation history. The
gas morphology observations of gas in the LMC and in local molecular clouds.
The frequency distribution of present-to-past average global star formation
rate, the distribution of gas velocities in filaments (found to be
exponential), and the cloud mass spectra (estimated using a structure tree
method), are discussed in detail.