The needs to assess robust performances for complex systems and to answer
tighter regulatory processes (security, safety, environmental control, and
health impacts, etc.) have led to the emergence of a new industrial simulation
challenge: to take uncertainties into account when dealing with complex
numerical simulation frameworks. Therefore, a generic methodology has emerged
from the joint effort of several industrial companies and academic
institutions. EDF R&D, Airbus Group and Phimeca Engineering started a
collaboration at the beginning of 2005, joined by IMACS in 2014, for the
development of an Open Source software platform dedicated to uncertainty
propagation by probabilistic methods, named OpenTURNS for Open source Treatment
of Uncertainty, Risk 'N Statistics. OpenTURNS addresses the specific industrial
challenges attached to uncertainties, which are transparency, genericity,
modularity and multi-accessibility. This paper focuses on OpenTURNS and
presents its main features: openTURNS is an open source software under the LGPL
license, that presents itself as a C++ library and a Python TUI, and which
works under Linux and Windows environment. All the methodological tools are
described in the different sections of this paper: uncertainty quantification,
uncertainty propagation, sensitivity analysis and metamodeling. A section also
explains the generic wrappers way to link openTURNS to any external code. The
paper illustrates as much as possible the methodological tools on an
educational example that simulates the height of a river and compares it to the
height of a dyke that protects industrial facilities. At last, it gives an
overview of the main developments planned for the next few years.