We study the orbits of the various types of galaxies observed in the ESO
Nearby Abell Cluster Survey. Galaxies within and outside substructures are
considered separately. We use the mass profile we determined from the
distribution and kinematics of the early-type galaxies (i.e. ellipticals,
excluding the brightest ones, and S0s) outside substructures; the latter were
assumed to be on isotropic orbits, which is supported by the shape of their
velocity distribution. The projected distribution and kinematics of the
galaxies of other types are used to search for equilibrium solutions in the
gravitational potential derived from the early-type galaxies, using the method
described by Binney and Mamon as implemented by Solanes and Salvador-Sole'. For
the brightest ellipticals we are not able to construct equilibrium solutions.
This is most likely the result of the formation history and the special
location of these galaxies at the centres of their clusters. The data for the
early spirals allow equilibrium solutions and are consistent with isotropic
orbits, although there is an apparent radial anisotropy at about 0.45 r200. For
the late spirals an equilibrium solution with isotropic orbits is rejected by
the data. The orbits are nearly isotropic within about 0.7 r200, but then
become increasingly radial outwards. Finally, the data for the galaxies in
substructures indicate that isotropic solutions are not acceptable, and
tangential orbits are indicated. We briefly discuss the possible implications
of these velocity-anisotropy profiles for current ideas of the evolution and
transformation of galaxies in clusters. (Abridged)