I present simple but robust estimates of the types of sources making up the
faint, sub-microJy radio sky. These include, not surprisingly, star-forming
galaxies and radio-quiet AGN but also two "new" populations, that is low radio
power ellipticals and dwarf galaxies, the latter likely constituting the most
numerous component of the radio sky. I then estimate for the first time the
X-ray, optical, and mid-infrared fluxes these objects are likely to have, which
are very important for source identification and the synergy between the
upcoming SKA and its various pathfinders with future missions in other bands.
On large areas of the sky the SKA, and any other radio telescope producing
surveys down to at least the microJy level, will go deeper than all currently
planned (and past) sky surveys, with the possible exception of the optical ones
from PAN-STARRS and the LSST. SPICA, JWST, and in particular the Extremely
Large Telescopes (ELTs) will be a match to the next generation radio telescopes
but only on small areas and above ~ 0.1 - 1 microJy (at 1.4 GHz), while even
IXO will only be able to detect a small (tiny) fraction of the microJy (nanoJy)
population in the X-rays. On the other hand, most sources from currently
planned all-sky surveys, with the likely exception of the optical ones, will
have a radio counterpart within the reach of the SKA. JWST and the ELTs might
turn out to be the main, or perhaps even the only, facilities capable of
securing optical counterparts and especially redshifts of microJy radio
sources. Because of their sensitivity, the SKA and its pathfinders will have a
huge impact on a number of topics in extragalactic astronomy including
star-formation in galaxies and its co-evolution with supermassive black holes,
radio-loudness and radio-quietness in AGN, dwarf galaxies, and the main
contributors to the radio background.[ABRIDGED]