The Galactic Bulge Survey is a wide but shallow X-ray survey of regions above
and below the Plane in the Galactic Bulge. It was performed using the Chandra
X-ray Observatory's ACIS camera. The survey is primarily designed to find and
classify low luminosity X-ray binaries. The combination of the X-ray depth of
the survey and the accessibility of optical and infrared counterparts makes
this survey ideally suited to identification of new symbiotic X-ray binaries in
the Bulge. We consider the specific case of the X-ray source CXOGBS
J173620.2-293338. It is coincident to within 1 arcsec with a very red star,
showing a carbon star spectrum and irregular variability in the Optical
Gravitational Lensing Experiment data. We classify the star as a late C-R type
carbon star based on its spectral features, photometric properties, and
variability characteristics, although a low-luminosity C-N type cannot be ruled
out. The brightness of the star implies it is located in the Bulge, and its
photometric properties overall are consistent with the Bulge carbon star
population. Given the rarity of carbon stars in the Bulge, we estimate the
probability of such a close chance alignment of any Galactic Bulge Survey
source with a carbon star to be <1e-3 suggesting that this is likely to be a
real match. If the X-ray source is indeed associated with the carbon star, then
the X-ray luminosity is around 9e32 erg/s. Its characteristics are consistent
with a low luminosity symbiotic X-ray binary, or possibly a low accretion rate
white dwarf symbiotic.