iPTF13ehe is a hydrogen-poor superluminous supernova (SLSN) at z=0.3434, with
properties similar to SN2007bi. It rises within (83-148)days (rest-frame) to
reach a peak bolometric luminosity of 1.3x$10^{44}$erg/s, then decays very
slowly at 0.015mag. per day. The measured ejecta velocity is 13000km/s. The
inferred explosion characteristics, such as the ejecta mass (67-220$M_\odot$),
the total radiative and kinetic energy ($10^{51}$ & 2x$10^{53}$erg
respectively), is typical of SLSN-R events. However, the late-time spectrum
taken at +251days reveals a Balmer Halpha emission feature with broad and
narrow components, which has never been detected before among other H-poor
SLSNe. The broad component has a velocity width of ~4500km/s and has a ~300km/s
blue-ward shift relative to the narrow component. We interpret this broad
Halpha emission line as the interaction between the supernova ejecta and a
H-rich circumstellar medium (CSM) shell, located at a distance of
~4x$10^{16}$cm from the explosion site. This ejecta-CSM interaction can produce
the observed Halpha luminosity of 2x$10^{41}$erg/s and causes the rest-frame
r-band LC to brighten at late times. The fact that the late-time spectra are
not completely absorbed by the shock ionized CSM shell implies that its Thomson
scattering optical depth is likely <1, thus setting upper limits on the CSM
mass <30$M_\odot$ and the volume number density <4x$10^8cm^{-3}$. The
early-time spectra do not show any H emission lines from this CSM shell,
indicating that most of the H-atoms are already neutral and the shell is
optically thin to the visible light. We predict that this shell should produce
Lyalpha absorption in the UV spectra. Of the existing models, a Pulsational
Pair Instability Supernova model can naturally explain the observed 30$M_\odot$
H-shell, ejected from a progenitor star with an initial mass of
(95-150)$M_\odot$ about 40 years ago.