In the hierarchical structure formation scenario, galaxies enlarge through
multiple merging events with less massive galaxies. In addition, the Magorrian
relation indicates that almost all galaxies are occupied by a central
supermassive black hole (SMBH) of mass $10^{-3}$ of its spheroidal component.
Consequently, SMBHs are expected to wander in the halos of their host galaxies
following a galaxy collision, although evidence of this activity is currently
lacking. We investigate a current plausible location of an SMBH wandering in
the halo of the Andromeda galaxy (M31). According to theoretical studies of
$N$-body simulations, some of the many substructures in the M31 halo are
remnants of a minor merger occurring about 1 Gyr ago. First, to evaluate the
possible parameter space of the infalling orbit of the progenitor, we perform
numerous parameter studies using a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) cluster. To
reduce uncertainties in the predicted position of the expected SMBH, we then
calculate the time evolution of the SMBH in the progenitor dwarf galaxy from
$N$-body simulations using the plausible parameter sets. Our results show that
the SMBH lies within the halo ($\sim$20--50 kpc from the M31 center), closer to
the Milky Way than the M31 disk. Furthermore, the predicted current positions
of the SMBH were restricted to an observational field of $0\degr.6 \times
0\degr.7$ in the northeast region of the M31 halo. We also discuss the origin
of the infalling orbit of the satellite galaxy and its relationships with the
recently discovered vast thin disk plane of satellite galaxies around M31.