Field trips and the outdoor classroom are a vital part of many courses at
school and FE/HE level. They apply previously obtained skills and knowledge in
the field and further deeper learning. However, it would be desirable to teach
the material in situ rather than providing a field trip at the end of a course;
thereby avoiding referring to the field trip in a few months time where
everything will become much clearer. Furthermore, there is clear evidence
provided by the National Peak Park Authority on how neglected e.g. the Peak
District National Park sites are by Primary and Secondary schools. They quote
inaccessibility and other common barriers associated to the outdoor classroom.
The archaeo-astronomy project envisages the development of an Elearning
environment allowing FE/HE students and pupils (Key Stage 2-4) to experience
and explore ancient landscapes e.g. in the Peak District National Park. This
project would support the learning experience of students on science and
environmental modules. Furthermore, it would allow schools to overcome the
initial problems of outdoor classroom. It is a research-based project located
at Nottingham Trent University that spans a large age range from secondary
school pupils up to undergraduate students. Additionally, it is a collaboration
between different departments and highly interdisciplinary including aspects of
Astronomy, Physics, Ecology, and Archaeology. A high priority is placed upon
the feedback between participants and teachers, especially bridging the gap
from HE to secondary schools and colleges. Thereby, students represent role
models and support the learning and teaching experience at school level.