The properties of polycrystalline materials are often dominated by the size
of their grains and by the atomic structure of their grain boundaries. These
effects should be especially pronounced in 2D materials, where even a line
defect can divide and disrupt a crystal. These issues take on practical
significance in graphene, a hexagonal two-dimensional crystal of carbon atoms;
Single-atom-thick graphene sheets can now be produced by chemical vapor
deposition on up to meter scales, making their polycrystallinity almost
unavoidable. Theoretically, graphene grain boundaries are predicted to have
distinct electronic, magnetic, chemical, and mechanical properties which
strongly depend on their atomic arrangement. Yet, because of the
five-order-of-magnitude size difference between grains and the atoms at grain
boundaries, few experiments have fully explored the graphene grain structure.
Here, we use a combination of old and new transmission electron microscope
techniques to bridge these length scales. Using atomic-resolution imaging, we
determine the location and identity of every atom at a grain boundary and find
that different grains stitch together predominantly via pentagon-heptagon
pairs. We then use diffraction-filtered imaging to rapidly map the location,
orientation, and shape of several hundred grains and boundaries, where only a
handful have been previously reported. The resulting images reveal an
unexpectedly small and intricate patchwork of grains connected by tilt
boundaries. By correlating grain imaging with scanned probe measurements, we
show that these grain boundaries dramatically weaken the mechanical strength of
graphene membranes, but do not measurably alter their electrical properties.
These techniques open a new window for studies on the structure, properties,
and control of grains and grain boundaries in graphene and other 2D materials.