We present a model for estimating the probabilities of future earthquakes of
magnitudes m > 4.95 in Italy. The model, a slightly modified version of the one
proposed for California by Helmstetter et al. (2007) and Werner et al. (2010),
approximates seismicity by a spatially heterogeneous, temporally homogeneous
Poisson point process. The temporal, spatial and magnitude dimensions are
entirely decoupled. Magnitudes are independently and identically distributed
according to a tapered Gutenberg-Richter magnitude distribution. We estimated
the spatial distribution of future seismicity by smoothing the locations of
past earthquakes listed in two Italian catalogs: a short instrumental catalog
and a longer instrumental and historical catalog. The bandwidth of the adaptive
spatial kernel is estimated by optimizing the predictive power of the kernel
estimate of the spatial earthquake density in retrospective forecasts. When
available and trustworthy, we used small earthquakes m>2.95 to illuminate
active fault structures and likely future epicenters. By calibrating the model
on two catalogs of different duration to create two forecasts, we intend to
quantify the loss (or gain) of predictability incurred when only a short but
recent data record is available. Both forecasts, scaled to five and ten years,
were submitted to the Italian prospective forecasting experiment of the global
Collaboratory for the Study of Earthquake Predictability (CSEP). An earlier
forecast from the model was submitted by Helmstetter et al. (2007) to the
Regional Earthquake Likelihood Model (RELM) experiment in California, and, with
over half of the five-year experiment over, the forecast performs better than
its competitors.