Inhomogeneous universe models have been proposed as an alternative
explanation for the apparent acceleration of the cosmic expansion that does not
require dark energy. In the simplest class of inhomogeneous models, we live
within a large, spherically symmetric void. Several studies have shown that
such a model can be made consistent with many observations, in particular the
redshift--luminosity distance relation for type Ia supernovae, provided that
the void is of Gpc size and that we live close to the center. Such a scenario
challenges the Copernican principle that we do not occupy a special place in
the universe. We use the first-year Sloan Digital Sky Survey-II supernova
search data set as well as the Constitution supernova data set to put
constraints on the observer position in void models, using the fact that
off-center observers will observe an anisotropic universe. We first show that a
spherically symmetric void can give good fits to the supernova data for an
on-center observer, but that the two data sets prefer very different voids. We
then continue to show that the observer can be displaced at least fifteen
percent of the void scale radius from the center and still give an acceptable
fit to the supernova data. When combined with the observed dipole anisotropy of
the cosmic microwave background however, we find that the data compells the
observer to be located within about one percent of the void scale radius. Based
on these results, we conclude that considerable fine-tuning of our position
within the void is needed to fit the supernova data, strongly disfavouring the
model from a Copernican principle point of view.