Although debris discs have been detected around a significant number of
main-sequence stars, only a few of them are known to harbour hot dust in their
inner part where terrestrial planets may have formed. Thanks to infrared
interferometric observations, it is possible to obtain a direct measurement of
these regions, which are of prime importance for preparing future exo-Earth
characterisation missions. In this context, we have resolved the exozodiacal
dust disc around Vega with the help of infrared stellar interferometry and
estimated the integrated H-band flux originating from the first few AUs of the
debris disc. Using precise H-band interferometric measurements obtained with
the 3-telescope IOTA/IONIC interferometer (Mount Hopkins, Arizona), thorough
modelling of both interferometric data (squared visibility and closure phase)
and spectral energy distribution was performed to constrain the nature of the
near-infrared excess emission. The most straightforward scenario consists in a
compact dust disc producing a thermal emission that is largely dominated by
small grains located between 0.1 and 0.3 AU from Vega and accounting for 1.23
+/- 0.45% of the near-infrared stellar flux for our best-fit model. This flux
ratio is shown to vary slightly with the geometry of the model used to fit our
interferometric data (variations within +/-0.19%). Initially revealed by K-band
CHARA/FLUOR observations, the presence of hot exozodiacal dust in the vicinity
of Vega is confirmed by our H-band IOTA/IONIC measurements at the 3-sigma
level. Whereas the origin of the dust is still uncertain, its presence and the
possible connection with the outer disc suggest that the Vega system is
currently undergoing major dynamical perturbations.