Multi-frequency, polarimetric VLA observations of the non-thermal filaments
(NTF's), G0.08+0.15, and G359.96+0.09, also known as the Northern and Southern
Threads are presented at 20, 6, 3.6 and 2 cm, with high enough spatial
resolution to be resolved for the first time at 6 and 3.6 cm. The 20 cm image
reveals a wealth of new detail in the radio sources lying within the inner 60
pc of the Galaxy. The Southern Thread has a prominent split along its length,
similar to splitting at the ends of previously studied NTF's. With resolutions
as fine as 2'', the 3.6 and 6 cm images reveal a high degree of continuity and
little substructure internal to the filament. The spectral index of the
Northern Thread has been determined over a broad range of frequencies. Its flux
density falls with frequency, alpha=-0.5 between 90 and 6 cm, and becomes much
steeper (alpha=-2.0) between 6 and 2 cm. The spectral index does not vary
significantly along the length of the Northern Thread, which implies either
that the diffusion timescale for the emitting electrons is less than their
synchrotron lifetime, or that the emitting electrons are reaccelerated
continuously at multiple positions along the filament. Because of the lack of
spectral index variation, we have not located the source of relativistic
electrons. Polarization observations at 6 and 3.6 cm confirm the non-thermal
nature of the emission from the Northern Thread. The fractional polarization in
the Northern Thread reaches 70% in some regions, although the polarized
emission is patchy. Large rotation measures (RM > 2000 rad/m2) have been
observed with irregular variations across the filament.The intrinsic magnetic
field in the Northern Thread is predominantly aligned along its long axis.