We investigate possibilities of solar coronal heating by acoustic waves
generated not at the photosphere but in the corona, aiming at heating in the
mid- to low-latitude corona where the low-speed wind is expected to come from.
Acoustic waves of period tau ~ 100s are triggered by chromospheric
reconnection, one model of small scale magnetic reconnection events recently
proposed by Sturrock. These waves having a finite amplitude eventually form
shocks to shape sawtooth waves (N-waves), and directly heat the surrounding
corona by dissipation of their wave energy. Outward propagation of the N-waves
is treated based on the weak shock theory, so that the heating rate can be
evaluated consistently with physical properties of the background coronal
plasma without setting a dissipation length in an ad hoc manner. We construct
coronal structures from the upper chromosphere to the outside of 1AU for
various inputs of the acoustic waves having a range of energy flux of F_{w,0} =
(1-20) times 10^5 erg cm^{-2} s^{-1} and a period of tau = 60-300s. The heating
by the N-wave dissipation effectively works in the inner corona and we find
that the waves of F_{w,0} >= 2 times 10^5 erg cm^{-2} s^{-1} and tau >= 60s
could maintain peak coronal temperature, T_{max} > 10^6 K. The model could also
reproduce the density profile observed in the streamer region. However, due to
its short dissipation length, the location of T_{max} is closer to the surface
than the observation, and the resultant flow velocity of the solar wind is
lower than the observed profile of the low-speed wind. The cooperations with
other heating and acceleration sources with the larger dissipation length are
inevitable to reproduce the real solar corona.