We investigate structural properties of old, metal-poor globular clusters
(GCs) formed at high redshifts (z>6) and located inside and outside virialized
galaxy-scale halos in clusters of galaxies with the total masses of M_CL based
on high-resolution cosmological simulations with models of GC formation. We
mainly derive the parameter dependences of physical properties of intracluster
GCs (ICGCs) based on the results of 14 models. Our principle results are
summarized as follows. (1) The projected radial density profiles (Sigma_GC) of
ICGCs in clusters with different M_CL can be diverse, though ICGCs have
inhomogeneous, asymmetric, and somewhat elongated distributions in most models.
If Sigma_GC (R) ~ R^alpha, alpha ranges from -1.5 to -2.5 for GCs in clusters.
(2) Although total number of GCs within the central 0.05 Mpc (N_GC,0.05) and
0.2 Mpc (N_GC,0.2) are diverse in different clusters, they can depend weakly on
M_CL in such a way that both N_GC,0.05 and N_GC,0.2 are likely to be larger for
clusters with larger M_CL. (3) Total number of GCs per cluster masses (specific
frequency of GCs for clusters of galaxies) are more likely to be larger in more
massive clusters, mainly because a larger number of earlier virialized objects
can be located in more massive clusters. (4) Spatial distributions of old GCs
in clusters can depend on the truncation epoch of GC formation (z_trun) such
that they can be steeper and more compact in the models with higher z_trun. (5)
The mean metallicity of ICGCs in a cluster can be smaller than that of GCs
within the cluster member galaxy-scale halos by ~ 0.3 in [Fe/H]. Metallicity
distribution functions (MDFs) of ICGCs show peak values around [Fe/H] ~ -1.6
and do not have remarkable bimodality.