We present a longslit optical spectrophotometric survey in the irregular
"post-starburst" galaxy NGC 1569 to search for chemical gradients and
inhomogeneities in the interstellar medium. Despite the presence of two massive
evolved starclusters and numerous HII regions, we find no evidence for chemical
gradients or inhomogeneities that may be attributed to enrichment from the
recent star formation activity. The chemical properties are consistent with
12+log(O/H)=8.19+/-0.04 and log(N/O)=-1.40+/-0.05 at all locations. No
localized chemical self-enrichment ("pollution") from massive star evolution is
found, even though the data are sensitive to the chemical yields from as few as
two or three massive stars. Flat chemical abundance profiles appear to be the
rule rather than the exception in low-mass galaxies. Strong chemical signatures
in the surrounding interstellar material should be detected unless one or more
of the following are true: 1) Different star forming regions throughout the
studied galaxies ``conspire'' to keep star formation rates and global
abundances uniform at all times, 2) ejecta from stellar winds and supernovae
are transported to all corners of the galaxy on timescales of <10^7 yr, and are
mixed instantaneously and uniformly, or 3) freshly synthesized elements remain
unmixed with the surrounding interstellar medium and reside in a
hard-to-observe hot 10^6 K phase or a cold, dusty, molecular phase. We advance
the third scenario as the most plausible, and we suggest ways to locate the
chemical products of massive star formation in starburst galaxies.