We present model spectral energy distributions, colors, polarization, and
images for an evolutionary sequence of a low-mass protostar from the early
collapse stage (Class 0) to the remnant disk stage (Class III). We find a
substantial overlap in colors and SEDs between protostars embedded in envelopes
(Class 0-I) and T Tauri disks (Class II), especially at mid-IR wavelengths.
Edge-on Class I-II sources show double-peaked spectral energy distributions,
with a short-wavelength hump due to scattered light and the long-wavelength
hump due to thermal emission. These are the bluest sources in mid-IR
color-color diagrams.
  Since Class 0 and I sources are diffuse, the size of the aperture over which
fluxes are integrated has a substantial effect on the computed colors, with
larger aperture results showing significantly bluer colors. This causes overlap
in color-color diagrams between all evolutionary states, especially in the
mid-IR. However the near-IR polarization of the Class 0 sources is much higher
than the Class I-II sources, providing a means to separate these evolutionary
states.
  We varied the grain properties in the circumstellar envelope, allowing for
larger grains in the disk midplane and smaller in the envelope. We find that
grain growth in disks of Class I sources can be detected at wavelengths greater
than 100 $\mu$m.
  Our image calculations predict that the diffuse emission from edge-on Class I
and II sources should be detectable in the mid-IR with the Space Infrared
Telescope Facility (SIRTF) in nearby star forming regions (out to several
hundred parsecs).