Aims. We present a stand-alone software (named EXSdetect) for the detection
of extended sources in X-ray images. Our goal is to provide a flexible tool
capable of detecting extended sources down to the lowest flux levels attainable
within instrumental limitations, while maintaining robust photometry, high
completeness, and low contamination, regardless of source morphology. EXSdetect
was developed mainly to exploit the ever-increasing wealth of archival X-ray
data, but is also ideally suited to explore the scientific capabilities of
future X-ray facilities, with a strong focus on investigations of distant
groups and clusters of galaxies. Methods. EXSdetect combines a fast Voronoi
tessellation code with a friends-of-friends algorithm and an automated
deblending procedure. The values of key parameters are matched to fundamental
telescope properties such as angular resolution and instrumental background. In
addition, the software is designed to permit extensive tests of its performance
via simulations of a wide range of observational scenarios. Results. We applied
EXSdetect to simulated data fields modeled to realistically represent the Swift
X-ray Cluster Survey (SXCS), which is based on archival data obtained by the
X-ray telescope onboard the Swift satellite. We achieve more than 90%
completeness for extended sources comprising at least 80 photons in the 0.5-2
keV band, a limit that corresponds to 10^-14 erg cm^-2 s^-1 for the deepest
SXCS fields. This detection limit is comparable to the one attained by the most
sensitive cluster surveys conducted with much larger X-ray telescopes. While
evaluating the performance of EXSdetect, we also explored the impact of
improved angular resolution and discuss the ideal properties of the next
generation of X-ray survey missions.