Candidate clusters of galaxies drawn from the sample identified from the
moderately deep I-band data of the ESO Imaging Survey (EIS), have been used for
follow-up optical/infrared imaging and spectroscopic observations. The
observations were conducted to assess the nature of these candidates over a
large range of redshifts. Currently, 163 EIS candidates have (V-I) colors, 15
have (I-K) and 65 cluster fields have been observed spectroscopically. From a
preliminary analysis of these data, we find that > 65% of the candidates
studied show strong evidence of being real physical associations, over the
redshift range 0.2<z<1.1. The evidence in some cases comes directly from
spectroscopic measurements, in others indirectly from the detection of
overdensities of objects with either the same color or the same photometric
redshift, or from a combination of color and spectroscopic information.
Preliminary results also suggest that the redshift derived from the
matched-filter algorithm is a reasonable measure of the cluster's redshift,
possibly overestimating it by Delta z ~0.1, at least for systems at z<0.7.
Overdensities of red objects have been detected in over 100 candidates, 38 of
which with estimated redshifts >0.6, and six candidates in the interval
0.45<z<0.81 have either been identified directly from measured redshifts or
have been confirmed by the measurement of at least one redshift for galaxies
located along a red-sequence typical of cluster early-type galaxies. Lastly,
five candidates among those already observed in the infrared have (I-Ks) colors
consistent with them being in the redshift interval 0.8<z<1.1. The sample of
"confirmed" clusters, already the largest of its kind in the southern
hemisphere, will be further enlarged by ongoing observations.