It is well known that multigrid methods are optimally efficient for solution
of elliptic equations (O(N)), which means that effort is proportional to the
number of points at which the solution is evaluated). Thus this is an ideal
method to solve the initial data/constraint equations in General Relativity for
(for instance) black hole interactions, or for other strong-field gravitational
configurations. Recent efforts have produced finite difference multigrid
solvers for domains with holes (excised regions). We present here the extension
of these concepts to higher order (fourth-, sixth- and eigth-order). The high
order convergence allows rapid solution on relatively small computational
grids. Also, general relativity evolution codes are moving to typically
fourth-order; data have to be computed at least as accurately as this same
order for straightfoward demonstration of the proper order of convergence in
the evolution.
  Our vertex-centered multigrid code demonstrates globally high-order-accurate
solutions of elliptic equations over domains containing holes, in two spatial
dimensions with fixed (Dirichlet) outer boundary conditions, and in three
spatial dimensions with {\it Robin} outer boundary conditions. We demonstrate a
``real world'' 3-dimensional problem which is the solution of the conformally
flat Hamiltonian constraint of General Relativity. The success of this method
depends on: a) the choice of the discretization near the holes; b) the
definition of the location of the inner boundary, which allows resolution of
the hole even on the coarsest grids; and on maintaining the same order of
convergence at the boundaries as in the interior of the computational domain.