It is widely accepted that cosmic rays (CRs) up to at least PeV energies are
Galactic in origin. Accelerated particles are injected into the interstellar
medium where they propagate to the farthest reaches of the Milky Way, including
a surrounding halo. The composition of CRs coming to the solar system can be
measured directly and has been used to infer the details of CR propagation that
are extrapolated to the whole Galaxy. In contrast, indirect methods, such as
observations of gamma-ray emission from CR interactions with interstellar gas,
have been employed to directly probe the CR densities in distant locations
throughout the Galactic plane. In this article we use 73 months of data from
the Fermi Large Area Telescope in the energy range between 300 MeV and 10 GeV
to search for gamma-ray emission produced by CR interactions in several high-
and intermediate-velocity clouds located at up to ~ 7 kpc above the Galactic
plane. We achieve the first detection of intermediate-velocity clouds in gamma
rays and set upper limits on the emission from the remaining targets, thereby
tracing the distribution of CR nuclei in the halo for the first time. We find
that the gamma-ray emissivity per H atom decreases with increasing distance
from the plane at 97.5% confidence level. This corroborates the notion that CRs
at the relevant energies originate in the Galactic disk. The emissivity of the
upper intermediate-velocity Arch hints at a 50% decline of CR densities within
2 kpc from the plane. We compare our results to predictions of CR propagation
models.