We study the dynamical evolution of the M87 globular cluster system (GCS)
with a number of numerical simulations. We explore a range of different initial
conditions for the GCS mass function (GCMF), for the GCS spatial distribution
and for the GCS velocity distribution. We confirm that an initial power-law
GCMF like that observed in young cluster systems can be readily transformed
through dynamical processes into a bell-shaped GCMF. However,only models with
initial velocity distributions characterized by a strong radial anisotropy
increasing with the galactocentric distance are able to reproduce the observed
constancy of the GCMF at all radii.We show that such strongly radial orbital
distributions are inconsistent with the observed kinematics of the M87 GCS. The
evolution of models with a bell-shaped GCMF with a turnover similar to that
currently observed in old GCS is also investigated. We show that models with
this initial GCMF can satisfy all the observational constraints currently
available on the GCS spatial distribution,the GCS velocity distribution and on
the GCMF properties.In particular these models successfully reproduce both the
lack of a radial gradient of the GCS mean mass recently found in an analysis of
HST images of M87 at multiple locations, and the observed kinematics of the M87
GCS.Our simulations also show that evolutionary processes significantly affect
the initial GCS properties by leading to the disruption of many clusters and
changing the masses of those which survive.The preferential disruption of inner
clusters flattens the initial GCS number density profile and it can explain the
rising specific frequency with radius; we show that the inner flattening
observed in the M87 GCS spatial distribution can be the result of the effects
of dynamical evolution on an initially steep density profile. (abridged)