We present results of the second planetary and low-luminosity object transit
campaign conducted by the OGLE-III survey. Three fields (35'x35' each) located
in the Carina regions of the Galactic disk (l~290) were monitored continuously
in February-May 2002. About 1150 epochs were collected for each field. The
search for low depth transits was conducted on about 103000 stars with
photometry better than 15 mmag. In total, we discovered 62 objects with shallow
depth (<0.08 mag) flat-bottomed transits. For each of these objects several
individual transits were detected and photometric elements were determined.
Also lower limits on radii of the primary and companion were calculated. The
2002 OGLE sample of stars with transiting companions contains considerably more
objects that may be Jupiter-sized (R<1.6 R_Jup) compared to our 2001 sample.
There is a group of planetary candidates with the orbital periods close to or
shorter than one day. If confirmed as planets, they would be the shortest
period extrasolar planetary systems. In general, the transiting objects may be
extrasolar planets, brown dwarfs, or M-type dwarfs. One should be, however,
aware that in some cases unresolved blends of regular eclipsing stars can mimic
transits. Future spectral analysis and eventual determination of the amplitude
of radial velocity should allow final classification. High resolution
spectroscopic follow-up observations are, therefore, strongly encouraged. All
photometric data are available from the OGLE Internet archive.
  Note added for astro-ph version: One of the best planetary candidates from
the OGLE 2001 campaign, OGLE-TR-56, has recently been confirmed as a planetary
system by Konacki, Torres, Jha and Sasselov [astro-ph/0301052].