We present results of a search for carbon recombination lines in the Galaxy
at 34.5 MHz (C$575\alpha$) made using the dipole array at Gauribidanur near
Bangalore. Observations made towards 32 directions, led to detections of lines
in absorption at nine positions. Followup observations at 328 MHz
(C$272\alpha$) using the Ooty Radio Telescope detected these lines in emission.
A VLA D-array observation of one of the positions at 330 MHz yielded no
detection implying a lower limit of 10' for the angular size of the line
forming region.
  The longitude-velocity distribution of the observed carbon lines indicate
that the line forming region are located mainly between 4 kpc and 7 kpc from
the Galactic centre. Combining our results with published carbon recombination
line data near 76 MHz (\nocite{erickson:95} Erickson \et 1995) we obtain
constraints on the physical parameters of the line forming regions. We find
that if the angular size of the line forming regions is $\ge 4^{\circ}$, then
the range of parameters that fit the data are: \Te $= 20-40$ K, \ne $\sim
0.1-0.3$ \cm3 and pathlengths $\sim 0.07-0.9$ pc which may correspond to thin
photo-dissociated regions around molecular clouds. On the other hand, if the
line forming regions are $\sim 2^{\circ}$ in extent, then warmer gas (\Te $\sim
60-300$ K) with lower electron densities (\ne $\sim 0.03-0.05$ \cm3) extending
over several tens of parsecs along the line of sight and possibly associated
with atomic \HI gas can fit the data. Based on the range of derived parameters,
we suggest that the carbon line regions are most likely associated with
photo-dissociation regions.