Expanding X-ray cavities observed in hot gas atmospheres of many galaxy
groups and clusters generate shock waves and turbulence that are primary
heating mechanisms required to avoid uninhibited radiatively cooling flows
which are not observed. However, we show here that the evolution of buoyant
cavities also stimulates radiative cooling of observable masses of
low-temperature gas. During their early evolution, radiative cooling occurs in
the wakes of buoyant cavities in two locations: in thin radial filaments
parallel to the buoyant velocity and more broadly in gas compressed beneath
rising cavities. Radiation from these sustained compressions removes entropy
from the hot gas. Gas experiencing the largest entropy loss cools first,
followed by gas with progressively less entropy loss. Most cooling occurs at
late times, $\sim 10^8-10^9$ yrs, long after the X-ray cavities have disrupted
and are impossible to detect. During these late times, slightly denser low
entropy gas sinks slowly toward the centers of the hot atmospheres where it
cools intermittently, forming clouds near the cluster center. Single cavities
of energy $10^{57}-10^{58}$ ergs in the atmosphere of the NGC 5044 group create
$10^8 - 10^9$ $M_{\odot}$ of cooled gas, exceeding the mass of extended
molecular gas currently observed in that group. The cooled gas clouds we
compute share many attributes with molecular clouds recently observed in NGC
5044 with ALMA: self-gravitationally unbound, dust-free, quasi-randomly
distributed within a few kpc around the group center.