Light pollution is a form of environmental degradation in which excessive
artificial outdoor lighting, such as street lamps, neon signs, and illuminated
signboards, affects the natural environment and the ecosystem. Poorly designed
outdoor lighting not only wastes energy, money, and valuable Earth resources,
but also robs us of our beautiful night sky. Effects of light pollution on the
night sky can be evaluated by the skyglow caused by these artificial lighting
sources, through measurements of the night sky brightness (NSB). The Hong Kong
Night Sky Brightness Monitoring Network (NSN) was established to monitor in
detail the conditions of light pollution in Hong Kong. Monitoring stations were
set up throughout the city covering a wide range of urban and rural settings to
continuously measure the variations of the NSB. Over 4.6 million night sky
measurements were collected from 18 distinct locations between May 2010 and
March 2013. This huge dataset, over two thousand times larger than our previous
survey, forms the backbone for studies of the temporal and geographical
variations of this environmental parameter and its correlation with various
natural and artificial factors. The concepts and methodology of the NSN were
presented here, together with an analysis of the overall night sky conditions
in Hong Kong. The average NSB in Hong Kong, excluding data affected by the
Moon, was 16.8 mag arcsec$^{-2}$, or 82 times brighter than the dark site
standard established by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). The urban
night sky was on average 15 times brighter than that in a rural location,
firmly establishing the effects of artificial lighting sources on the night
sky.