We report the properties of the 35 robust candidates of Ly-alpha blobs
(LABs), which are larger than 16 arcsec^2 in isophotal area and brighter than
0.7 x 10^-16 ergs s^-1 cm^-2, searched in and around the proto-cluster region
at redshift z=3.1 discovered by Steidel et al. in the SSA22 field, based on
wide-field (31'x23') and deep narrow-band (NB497; 4977/77) and broad-band (B,V,
and R) images taken with the prime-focus camera on the Subaru telescope. The
two previously known giant LABs are the most luminous and the largest ones in
our survey volume of 1.3 x 10^5 Mpc^3. We revealed the internal structures of
the two giant LABs and discovered some bubble-like features, which suggest that
intensive starburst and galactic superwind phenomena occurred in these objects
in the past. The rest 33 LABs have isophotal area of about 16-78 arcsec^2 and
flux of 0.7-7 x 10^-16 ergs s^-1 cm^-2. These 35 LABs show a continuous
distribution of isophotal area and emission line flux. The distributions of
average surface brightness and morphology are widespread from relatively
compact high surface brightness objects to very diffuse low surface brightness
ones. The physical origins of these LABs may be (i) photo-ionization by massive
stars, or active galactic nuclei, or (ii) cooling radiation from
gravitationally heated gas, or (iii) shock heating by starburst driven galactic
superwind. One third of them are apparently not associated with ultra-violet
continuum sources that are bright enough to produce Ly-alpha emission, assuming
a Salpeter initial mass function. The 90% of these LABs are located inside the
high surface density region of the 283 relatively compact and strong Ly-alpha
emitters selected in our previous study. This suggests that these LABs may be
the phenomena related to dense environment at high redshift.