We perform an analysis of the X-ray superbubble in the N 206 HII region in
the Large Magellanic Cloud using current generation facilities to gain a better
understanding of the physical processes at work in the superbubble and to
improve our knowledge of superbubble evolution. We used XMM-Newton observations
of the N 206 region to produce images and extract spectra of the superbubble
diffuse emission. Morphological comparisons with Halpha images from the
Magellanic Cloud Emission Line Survey were performed, and spectral analysis of
the diffuse X-ray emission was carried out. We derived the physical properties
of the hot gas in the superbubble based on the results of the spectral
analysis. We also determined the total energy stored in the superbubble and
compared this to the expected energy input from the stellar population to
assess the superbubble growth rate discrepancy for N 206. We find that the
brightest region of diffuse X-ray emission is confined by a Halpha shell,
consistent with the superbubble model. In addition, faint emission extending
beyond the Halpha shell was found, which we attribute to a blowout region. The
spectral analysis of both emission regions points to a hot shocked gas as the
likely origin of the emission. We determine the total energy stored in the
bubble and the expected energy input by the stellar population. However, due to
limited data on the stellar population, the input energy is poorly constrained
and, consequently, no definitive indication of a growth rate discrepancy is
seen. Using the high-sensitivity X-ray data from XMM-Newton and optical data
from the Magellanic Cloud Emission Line Survey has allowed us to better
understand the physical properties of the N 206 superbubble and address some
key questions of superbubble evolution.