(Abridged) We aim to determine the trigonometric parallaxes and proper
motions of a sample of ten field L0-L5 dwarfs with spectroscopic evidence for
low-gravity atmospheres. We obtained J and Ks imaging data using 2-4-m class
telescopes with a typical cadence of one image per month between 2010 January
and 2012 December. We also obtained low resolution optical spectra (R~300,
500-1100 nm) using the 10-m GTCs to assess the presence of lithium absorption
in four targets and confirm their young age. Trigonometric parallaxes and
proper motions were derived to typical accuracies of 1 mas and +/-10 mas/yr.
All ten L dwarfs have large motions, and are located at distances between 9 and
47 pc. They lie above and on the sequence of field dwarfs in the absolute J and
K_s magnitude versus spectral type and luminosity versus Teff diagrams,
implying ages similar to or smaller than those typical of the field. The
detection of atomic lithium in the atmosphere of 2MASS J00452143+1634446 is
reported for the first time. Three dwarfs have locations in the HR diagram
indicative of old ages and high masses consistent with the observed lithium
depletion previously published. We did not find evidence for the presence of
astrometric companions with minimum detectable masses typically >=25 Mjup and
face-on, circular orbits with periods between 60-90 d and 3 yr around eight
targets. The astrometric and spectroscopic data indicate that about 60-70% of
the field L-type dwarfs in our sample with evidence for low-gravity atmospheres
are indeed young-to-intermediate-age brown dwarfs of the solar neighborhood
with expected ages and masses in the intervals 10-500 Myr and 11-45 Mjup. The
peaked-shape of the H-band spectra of L dwarfs, a signpost of youth, appears to
be present up to ages of 120-500 Myr and intermediate-to-high gravities.