The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) is an international initiative to build
the next generation ground based very-high energy gamma-ray observatory. It
will consist of telescopes of three different sizes, employing several
different technologies for the cameras that detect the Cherenkov light from the
observed air showers. In order to ensure the compliance of each camera
technology with CTA requirements, CTA will perform central acceptance testing
of each camera technology. To assist with this, the Camera Test Facilities
(CTF) work package is developing a detailed test program covering the most
important performance, stability, and durability requirements, including
setting up the necessary equipment. Performance testing will include a wide
range of tests like signal amplitude, time resolution, dead-time determination,
trigger efficiency, performance testing under temperature and humidity
variations and several others. These tests can be performed on fully-integrated
cameras using a portable setup at the camera construction sites. In addition,
two different setups for performance tests on camera sub-units are being built,
which can provide early feedback for camera development. Stability and
durability tests will include the long-term functionality of movable parts,
water tightness of the camera housing, temperature and humidity cycling,
resistance to vibrations during transport or due to possible earthquakes,
UV-resistance of materials and several others. Some durability tests will need
to be contracted out because they will need dedicated equipment not currently
available within CTA. The planned test procedures and the current status of the
test facilities will be presented.