We analyzed observation data collected by the Instrument for the Detection of
Particles (IDP) on board of DEMETER satellite during the period of total
seventeen months in 2007 and 2008. In the meantime, the VLF transmitter located
at NWC ground station was shutdown for seven months and working for total ten
months. Our analysis, for the first time, revealed in details the transient
properties of the space electrons induced by the man-made VLF wave emitted by
the transmitter at NWC. First, we mapped the electron flux distribution and
figured out the special range what the NWC belt covered. Then we investigated
the NWC electron spectrograms in a wide range of McIlwain parameter (up to
L=3.0). Finally, we obtained the averaged energy spectrum of the NWC electrons
within the drift loss-cone, and compared the difference during the observations
between daytime and nighttime. Our results proved the fact that the VLF
emissions from NWC transmitter created momentary electron enhancement with
fluxes up to 3 orders of magnitude. These electrons are distributed in the
region of 180 degree in longitude and 1.6 ~ 1.9 of L shell. In addition, the
VLF emission induced either enhancement or loss of electrons in higher magnetic
shells up to L=3, and the maximum loss was up to 60% of the original value. The
energy spectra of these electrons revealed that the enhancement during the NWC
daytime are more attenuated than those in the NWC nighttime, and that the shape
and the cutoff energy of the spectra are also quite different. We will present
the results of our analysis, compare it with previous studies, and discuss the
agreement of our results with the theory of wave-particle interaction.