One-dimensional system of Brownian motions called Dyson's model is the
particle system with long-range repulsive forces acting between any pair of
particles, where the strength of force is $\beta/2$ times the inverse of
particle distance. When $\beta=2$, it is realized as the Brownian motions in
one dimension conditioned never to collide with each other. For any initial
configuration, it is proved that Dyson's model with $\beta=2$ and $N$
particles, $\X(t)=(X_1(t), ..., X_N(t)), t \in [0,\infty), 2 \leq N < \infty$,
is determinantal in the sense that any multitime correlation function is given
by a determinant with a continuous kernel. The Airy function $\Ai(z)$ is an
entire function with zeros all located on the negative part of the real axis
$\R$. We consider Dyson's model with $\beta=2$ starting from the first $N$
zeros of $\Ai(z)$, $0 > a_1 > ... > a_N$, $N \geq 2$. In order to properly
control the effect of such initial confinement of particles in the negative
region of $\R$, we put the drift term to each Brownian motion, which increases
in time as a parabolic function : $Y_j(t) = X_j(t) + t^2/4 + \{d_1 +
\sum_{\ell=1}^N (1/a_{\ell})\}t, 1 \leq j \leq N$, where $d_1=\Ai'(0)/\Ai(0)$.
We show that, as the $N \to \infty$ limit of $\Y(t)=(Y_1(t), ..., Y_N(t)), t
\in [0, \infty)$, we obtain an infinite particle system, which is the
relaxation process from the configuration, in which every zero of $\Ai(z)$ on
the negative $\R$ is occupied by one particle, to the stationary state
$\mu_{\Ai}$. The stationary state $\mu_{\Ai}$ is the determinantal point
process with the Airy kernel, which is spatially inhomogeneous on $\R$ and in
which the Tracy-Widom distribution describes the rightmost particle position.