We have mapped the stellar and gaseous kinematics, as well as the
emission-line flux distributions and ratios, from the inner 450pc radius of
Mrk1157, using 2D near-IR spectra obtained with the Gemini NIFS at a spatial
resolution of 35pc. The stellar velocity field shows a rotation pattern, with a
discrete S-shaped zero velocity curve. The presence of a bar is also supported
by the residual map between the observed rotation field and a model of circular
orbits in a Plummer potential. The stellar velocity dispersion map presents a
partial ring of low-sigma values (50-60km/s) at 250pc from the nucleus
surrounded by higher sigma values from the galaxy bulge, originated in
kinematically colder regions with recent star formation. The velocity
dispersion of the bulge (100km/s) implies in a black hole mass of
8.3x10^6M_Sun. Emission-line flux distributions are most extended along
PA=27/153deg, reaching at least 450pc from the nucleus and following the
orientation observed in previous optical emission-line [OIII] imaging and radio
jet. The molecular H_2 emission is dominated by thermal processes, mainly due
to X-ray heating by the active nucleus. The [FeII] excitation has a larger
contribution from shocks produced by the radio jet, as evidenced by the
line-ratio maps and velocity dispersion map, which show spatial correlation
with the radio structures. The gaseous kinematics shows two components, one due
to gas located in the galaxy plane and another in outflow, which is oriented
close to the plane of the sky, thus extending to high latitudes, as the galaxy
plane is inclined by 45deg relative to the plane of the sky. The gas rotating
in the plane dominates the H_2 and Pa-beta emission, while the gas in outflow
is observed predominantly in [FeII] emission. From the outflow velocities and
implied geometry, we estimate an outflow mass rate of 6M_sun/yr for the ionised
gas.