Complete flux-calibrated spectra covering the spectral range from 6000 A to
2.5 um have been obtained along the HH1 jet and analysed in order to explore
the potential of a combined optical/near-IR diagnostic applied to jets from
young stellar objects. Important physical parameters have been derived along
the jet using various diagnostic line ratios. This multi-line analysis shows,
in each spatially unresolved knot, the presence of zones at different
excitation conditions, as expected from the cooling layers behind a shock
front. In particular, a density stratification in the jet is evident from
ratios of various lines of different critical density. In particular, [FeII]
lines originate in a cooling layer located at larger distances from the shock
front than that generating the optical lines, where the compression is higher
and the temperature is declining. The derived parameters were used to measure
the mass flux along the jet, adopting different procedures, the advantages and
limitations of which are discussed. dM/dt is high in the initial part of the
flow but decreases by about an order of magnitude further out. Conversely, the
mass flux associated with the warm molecular material is low and does not show
appreciable variations along the jet. We suggest that part of the mass flux in
the external regions is not revealed in optical and IR lines because it is
associated with a colder atomic component, which may be traced by the far-IR [O
I]63 um line.
  Finally, we find that the gas-phase abundance of refractory species is lower
than the solar value suggesting that a significant fraction of dust grains may
still be present in the jet beam.