In an attempt to widen access to the study of magnetic fields in stellar
astronomy, I present MOOGStokes, a version of the MOOG one-dimensional LTE
radiative transfer code, overhauled to incorporate a Stokes vector treatment of
polarized radiation through a magnetic medium. MOOGStokes is a suite of three
complementary programs, which together can synthesize the disk-averaged
emergent spectrum of a star with a magnetic field. The first element (a
pre-processing script called CounterPoint) calculates for a given magnetic
field strength, wavelength shifts and polarizations for the components of
Zeeman sensitive lines. The second element (a MOOG driver called SynStokes
derived from the existing MOOG driver Synth) uses the list of Zeeman shifted
absorption lines together with the existing machinery of MOOG to synthesize the
emergent spectrum at numerous locations across the stellar disk, accounting for
stellar and magnetic field geometry. The third and final element (a
post-processing script called DiskoBall) calculates the disk-averaged spectrum
by weighting the individual emergent spectra by limb darkening and projected
area, and applying the effects of Doppler broadening. All together, the
MOOGStokes package allows users to synthesize emergent spectra of stars with
magnetic fields in a familiar computational framework. MOOGStokes produces
disk-averaged spectra for all Stokes vectors (I, Q, U, and V), normalized by
the continuum. MOOGStokes agrees well with the predictions of INVERS10 a
polarized radiative transfer code with a long history of use in the study of
stellar magnetic fields. In the non-magnetic limit, MOOGStokes also agrees with
the predictions of the scalar version of MOOG.