We analyze optical images and high-resolution, long-slit spectra of three
planetary nebulae which possess collimated, low-ionization features. NGC 3918
is composed of an inner, spindle-shaped shell mildly inclined with respect to
the plane of the sky. Departing from the polar regions of this shell, we find a
two-sided jet expanding with velocities which increase linearly with distance
from 50 to 100 km/s. The jet is probably coeval with the inner shell (with the
age of approximately 1000 D yr, where D is the distance in kpc), suggesting
that its formation should be ascribed to the same dynamical processes which
also shaped the main nebula, and not to a more recent mass loss episode. We
discuss the formation of the aspherical shell and jet in the light of current
hydrodynamical and magnetohydrodynamical theories. K 1-2 is a planetary nebula
with a close binary nucleus which shows a collimated string of knots embedded
in a diffuse, elliptical shell. The knots expand with a velocity similar to
that of the elliptical nebula (25 km/s), except for an extended tail located
out of the main nebula, which linearly accelerates up to 45 km/s. We estimate
an inclination on the line of the sight of 40 degres for the string of knots;
once the orientation of the orbit is also determined, this information will
allow us to test the prediction of current theories of the occurrence of polar
jets from close binary systems. Wray 17-1 has a complex morphology, showing two
pairs of low-ionization structures located in almost perpendicular directions
from the central star, and embedded in a large, diffuse nebula. The two pairs
show notable similarities and differences, and their origin is very puzzling.