Stellar rotation periods measured from single-age populations are critical
for investigating how stellar angular momentum content evolves over time, how
that evolution depends on mass, and how rotation influences the stellar dynamo
and the magnetically heated chromosphere and corona. We report rotation periods
for 40 late-K to mid-M stars members of the nearby, rich, intermediate-age
(~600 Myr) open cluster Praesepe. These rotation periods were derived from ~200
observations taken by the Palomar Transient Factory of four cluster fields from
2010 February to May. Our measurements indicate that Praesepe's mass-period
relation transitions from a well-defined singular relation to a more scattered
distribution of both fast and slow rotators at ~0.6 Msun. The location of this
transition is broadly consistent with expectations based on observations of
younger clusters and the assumption that stellar-spin down is the dominant
mechanism influencing angular momentum evolution at 600 Myr. However, a
comparison to data recently published for the Hyades, assumed to be coeval to
Praesepe, indicates that the divergence from a singular mass-period relation
occurs at different characteristic masses, strengthening the finding that
Praesepe is the younger of the two clusters. We also use previously published
relations describing the evolution of rotation periods as a function of color
and mass to evolve the sample of Praesepe periods in time. Comparing the
resulting predictions to periods measured in M35 and NGC 2516 (~150 Myr) and
for kinematically selected young and old field star populations suggests that
stellar spin-down may progress more slowly than described by these relations.