We study clustering of inertial particles in turbulent flows and discuss its
applications to dust particles in protoplanetary disks. Using numerical
simulations, we compute the radial distribution function (RDF), which measures
the probability of finding particle pairs at given distances, and the
probability density function of the particle concentration. The clustering
statistics depend on the Stokes number, $St$, defined as the ratio of the
particle friction timescale, $\tau_{\rm p} $, to the Kolmogorov timescale in
the flow. In the dissipation range, the clustering intensity strongly peaks at
$St \simeq 1$, and the RDF for $St \sim 1$ shows a fast power-law increase
toward small scales, suggesting that turbulent clustering may considerably
enhance the particle collision rate. Clustering at inertial-range scales is of
particular interest to the problem of planetesimal formation. At these scales,
the strongest clustering is from particles with $\tau_{\rm p}$ in the inertial
range. Clustering of these particles occurs primarily around a scale where the
eddy turnover time is $\sim\tau_{\rm p}$. Particles of different sizes tend to
cluster at different locations, leading to flat RDFs between different
particles at small scales. In the presence of multiple particle sizes, the
overall clustering strength decreases as the particle size distribution
broadens. We discuss particle clustering in recent models for planetesimal
formation. We point out that, in the model based on turbulent clustering of
chondrule-size particles, the probability of finding strong clusters that can
seed planetesimals may have been significantly overestimated. We discuss
various clustering mechanisms in simulations of planetesimal formation by
gravitational collapse of dense clumps of meter-size particles, in particular
the contribution from turbulent clustering due to the limited numerical
resolution.