In this paper we study point transformed electromagnetic invisibility cloaks
in transformation media that are obtained by transformation from general
anisotropic media. We assume that there are several cloaks located in different
points in space. Our results apply in particular to the first order
invisibility cloaks introduced by Pendry et al. and to the high order
invisibility cloaks introduced by Hendi et al. and by Cai et al.. We identify
the appropriate {\it cloaking boundary conditions} that the solutions of
Maxwell equations have to satisfy at the outside, $\partial K_+$, and at the
inside, $\partial K_-$, of the boundary of the cloaked object $K$. Namely, that
the tangential components of the electric and the magnetic fields have to
vanish at $\partial K_+$ -what is always true- and that the normal components
of the curl of the electric and the magnetic fields have to vanish at $\partial
K_-$. These results are proven requiring that energy be conserved. In the case
of one spherical cloak with a spherically stratified $K$ and a radial current
at $\partial K$ we verify by an explicit calculation that our {\it cloaking
boundary conditions} are satisfied and that cloaking of active devices holds
even if the current is at the boundary of the cloaked object. As we prove our
results for media that are obtained by transformation from general anisotropic
media, our results apply to the cloaking of objects with active and passive
devices contained in general anisotropic media, in particular to objects with
active and passive devices contained inside general crystals.