Dark energy is one of the greatest scientific challenges of the 21st century.
One of the key questions facing cosmologists is whether dark energy is either a
breakdown of General Relativity on large scales or a new form of matter in the
Universe with a negative effective pressure. This question can only be answered
through a suite of different observations as a function of redshift. In this
paper, I briefly review various dark energy reports published in the last year,
which all highlight the importance of the baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO)
for probing the "dark physics" of the Universe. I also summarize the recent
measurements of the BAO in large galaxy redshift surveys. I then look forward
to a new instrument planned by the Subaru and Gemini communities called the
"Wide-Field Multi-Object Spectrograph" (WFMOS) for the Subaru telescope. The
baseline design of this facility includes ~4500 spectroscopic fibers over a
field-of-view of 1.5 degree diameter, covering a wavelength range of 0.39 to 1
microns. The instrument is schedule for first-light early next decade and will
perform massive spectroscopic surveys of both distant galaxies and faint stars
in our own Galaxy. The WFMOS dark energy surveys will deliver ~1% errors on the
angular-diameter distance and Hubble parameter to high redshift. WFMOS will
also be a unique user-facility allowing astronomers to address a host of
astrophysical problems like galaxy evolution, the intergalactic medium and
calibrate photometric redshifts. The WFMOS archive will also provide a rich
resource for further ancillary science much like the present-day SDSS archive.