The irradiation with fast ions with kinetic energies of > 10 MeV leads to the
deposition of a high amount of energy along their trajectory (up to several ten
keV/nm). The energy is mainly transferred to the electronic subsystem and
induces different secondary processes of excitations which result in
significant material modifications. A new setup to study these ion induced
effects on surfaces will be described in this paper. The setup combines a
variable irradiation chamber with different techniques of surface
characterizations like scanning probe microscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion
and neutral mass spectrometry, as well as low energy electron diffraction under
ultra high vacuum conditions, and is mounted at a beamline of the universal
linear accelerator (UNILAC) of the GSI facility in Darmstadt, Germany. Here,
samples can be irradiated with high-energy ions with a total kinetic energy up
to several GeVs under different angles of incidence. Our setup enables the
preparation and in-situ analysis of different types of sample systems ranging
from metals to insulators. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry
enables us to study the chemical composition of the surface, while scanning
probe microscopy allows a detailed view into the local electrical and
morphological conditions of the sample surface down to atomic scales. With the
new setup particle emission during irradiation as well as persistent
modifications of the surface after irradiation can thus be studied. We present
first data obtained with the new setup, including a novel measuring protocol
for time-of-flight mass spectrometry with the GSI UNILAC accelerator.