The AKARI All-Sky Catalogues are an important infrared astronomical database
for next-generation astronomy that take over the IRAS catalog. We have
developed an online service, AKARI Catalogue Archive Server (AKARI-CAS), for
astronomers. The service includes useful and attractive search tools and visual
tools.
  One of the new features of AKARI-CAS is cached SIMBAD/NED entries, which can
match AKARI catalogs with other catalogs stored in SIMBAD or NED. To allow
advanced queries to the databases, direct input of SQL is also supported. In
those queries, fast dynamic cross-identification between registered catalogs is
a remarkable feature. In addition, multiwavelength quick-look images are
displayed in the visualization tools, which will increase the value of the
service.
  In the construction of our service, we considered a wide variety of
astronomers' requirements. As a result of our discussion, we concluded that
supporting users' SQL submissions is the best solution for the requirements.
Therefore, we implemented an RDBMS layer so that it covered important
facilities including the whole processing of tables. We found that PostgreSQL
is the best open-source RDBMS products for such purpose, and we wrote codes for
both simple and advanced searches into the SQL stored functions. To implement
such stored functions for fast radial search and cross-identification with
minimum cost, we applied a simple technique that is not based on dividing
celestial sphere such as HTM or HEALPix. In contrast, the Web application layer
became compact, and was written in simple procedural PHP codes. In total, our
system realizes cost-effective maintenance and enhancements.