Located at z = 0.203, A2163 is a rich galaxy cluster with an intra-cluster
medium (ICM) that exhibits extraordinary properties, including an exceptionally
high X-ray luminosity, average temperature, and a powerful and extended radio
halo. The irregular and complex morphology of its gas and galaxy structure
suggests that this cluster has recently undergone major merger events that
involve two or more cluster components. In this paper, we study the gas
structure and dynamics by means of spectral-imaging analysis of X-ray data
obtained from XMM-Newton and Chandra observations. From the evidence of a cold
front, we infer the westward motion of a cool core across the E-W elongated
atmosphere of the main cluster A2163-A. Located close to a galaxy over-density,
this gas 'bullet' appears to have been spatially separated from its galaxy (and
presumably dark matter component) as a result of high-velocity accretion.
  From gas brightness and temperature profile analysis performed in two
opposite regions of the main cluster, we show that the ICM has been
adiabatically compressed behind the crossing 'bullet' possibly because of shock
heating, leading to a strong departure of the ICM from hydrostatic equilibrium
in this region. Assuming that the mass estimated from the Yx proxy best
indicates the overall mass of the system and that the western cluster sector is
in approximate hydrostatic equilibrium before subcluster accretion, we infer a
merger scenario between two subunits of mass ratio 1:4, leading to a present
total system mass of M500 $\propto 1.9 \times 1015 M_{\odot}$. The exceptional
properties of A2163 present various similarities with those of 1E0657-56, the
so-called 'bullet-cluster'. These similarities are likely to be related to a
comparable merger scenario.