During the next decade a tremendous advance will take place in
instrumentation for spectroscopy of the interstellar medium. Major new
facilities (ALMA, SOFIA, APEX, LMT, Herschel and others) will be constructed
and commissioned, so that the science opportunities, in the field of
astrochemistry, will increase by a huge factor. This will be enhanced by the
new receivers with greater bandwidth and sensitivity. The new opportunities
will be in the area of astrochemistry of distant objects, through greater
sensitivity, or new spectral ranges due to the platforms above the Earth's
atmosphere. Various aspects of new spectral ranges are discussed, with emphasis
on H2O lines, features previously hidden under H2O or O2 lines, light hydrides
and particularly on deuterium in molecules. Recently, multiply deuterated
species have been detected, e.g. ND3, in cold dense regions of the interstellar
medium. It is argued here that it is possible that so much deuterium could be
trapped, by the fractionation process, into heavy molecules such as ND3,
etc..., and species such as H2D+ and possibly D2H+, that D and HD might be
depleted. This would be the mechanism for the large dispersion of [D]/[H]
values found in the interstellar medium. Light molecules (hydrides and
deuterides) generally have large fundamental rotation frequencies, often lying
in the HIFI bands. The deuterides are a specially suitable case, because the
species exist mainly in cold dense regions, where the molecules are in the
ground states and THz observations will best be carried out by absorption
spectroscopy against background dust continuum sources such as Sgr B2 and W49N.