1.5D PIC, relativistic, fully electromagnetic (EM) simulations are used to
model EM wave emission generation in the context of solar type III radio
bursts. The model studies generation of EM waves by a super-thermal, hot beam
of electrons injected into a plasma thread that contains uniform longitudinal
magnetic field and a parabolic density gradient. In effect, a single magnetic
line connecting Sun to earth is considered, for which several cases are
studied. (i) We find that the physical system without a beam is stable and only
low amplitude level EM drift waves (noise) are excited. (ii) The beam injection
direction is controlled by setting either longitudinal or oblique electron
initial drift speed, i.e. by setting the beam pitch angle. In the case of zero
pitch angle, the beam excites only electrostatic, standing waves, oscillating
at plasma frequency, in the beam injection spatial location, and only low level
EM drift wave noise is also generated. (iii) In the case of oblique beam pitch
angles, again electrostatic waves with same properties are excited. However,
now the beam also generates EM waves with the properties commensurate to type
III radio bursts. The latter is evidenced by the wavelet analysis of transverse
electric field component, which shows that as the beam moves to the regions of
lower density, frequency of the EM waves drops accordingly. (iv) When the
density gradient is removed, electron beam with an oblique pitch angle still
generates the EM radiation. However, in the latter case no frequency decrease
is seen. Within the limitations of the model, the study presents the first
attempt to produce simulated dynamical spectrum of type III radio bursts in
fully kinetic plasma model. The latter is based on 1.5D non-zero pitch angle
(non-gyrotropic) electron beam, that is an alternative to the plasma emission
classical mechanism.