Context. The formation and early evolution of high- and intermediate-mass
stars towards the main sequence involves the interplay of stars in a clustered
and highly complex environment. To obtain a full census of this interaction,
the Formation and Early evolution of Massive Stars (FEMS) collaboration studies
a well-selected sample of 10 high-mass star-forming regions. Aims. In this
study we examine the stellar content of the high-mass star-forming region
centered on IRAS 06084-0611 in the Monoceros R2 cloud. Methods. Using the
near-infrared H- and K-band spectra from the VLT/SINFONI instrument on the ESO
Very Large Telescope (VLT)and photometric near-infrared NTT/SOFI, 2MASS and
Spitzer/IRAC data, we were able to determine the spectral types for the most
luminous stars in the cluster. Results. Two very young and reddened massive
stars have been detected by SINFONI: a massive Young Stellar Object (YSO) con-
sistent with an early-B spectral type and a Herbig Be star. Furthermore, stars
of spectral type G and K are detected while still in the Pre-Main Sequence
(PMS) phase. We derive additional properties such as temperatures, extinctions,
radii and masses. We present a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram and find most
objects having intermediate masses between \sim1.5-2.5 M\odot. For these stars
we derive a median cluster age of \sim4 Myr. Conclusions. Using Spitzer/IRAC
data we confirm earlier studies that the younger class 0/I objects are
centrally located while the class II objects are spread out over a larger area,
with rough scale size radii of \sim0.5 pc and \sim1.25 pc respectively.
Moreover, the presence of a massive YSO, an ultracompact H ii region and highly
reddened objects in the center of the cluster suggest a much younger age of < 1
Myr. A possible scenario for this observation would be sequential star
formation along the line of sight; from a cluster of intermediate-mass to
high-mass stars.