In November 2010, we performed a search for a
$^{4}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He}$-$\eta$ bound state by measuring the excitation
function for the $dd\rightarrow$ $^{3}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He} n \pi{}^{0}$
and $dd\rightarrow$ $^{3}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He} p \pi{}^{-}$ reactions in
the vicinity of the $\eta$ production threshold with the WASA detector.~The
experiment was carried out using a deuteron COSY beam and deuteron pellet
target. The beam momentum varied continuously in each of acceleration cycle
from 2.127 GeV/c to 2.422 GeV/c, which corresponds to a range of excess energy
$Q$ $\in$(-70,30)MeV. This dissertation is about the search for
$^{4}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He}$-$\eta$ bound state in $dd\rightarrow$
$^{3}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He} n \pi{}^{0}$ reaction. The excitation function
for the process was determined after identification of all outgoing particles
and the application of the selection conditions based on Monte Carlo
simulations of $\eta$-mesic helium production and its decay via excitation of
the $N^{*}$ resonance. No narrow structure of the $\eta$-mesic helium was
observed in the excitation function. The upper limit of the total cross section
for the bound state formation and its decay in
$dd\rightarrow({}^{4}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He}$-$\eta)_{bound} \rightarrow$
$^{3}\hspace{-0.03cm}\mbox{He} n \pi{}^{0}$ process was determined on the 90%
confidence level. It varies from 21 to 36 nb for the bound state width ranging
from 5 MeV to 50 MeV, respectively. However, an indication for a broad state
was observed. The kinematic region, where we expect the evidence of the signal
from the bound state, cannot be fully described only by the combination of the
considered background processes. In contrast, the experimental excitation
function is very well fitted by the background contributions for the region
where the signal is not expected.