We have investigated the physical conditions in the narrow-line region (NLR)
of M51 using long-slit spectra obtained with the Space Telescope Imaging
Spectrograph (STIS) aboard the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) and 3.6 cm radio
continuum observations obtained with the Very Large Array (VLA). Emission-line
diagnostics were employed for nine NLR clouds, which extend 2.5" (102 pc) from
the nucleus, to examine the electron density, temperature, and ionization state
of the NLR gas. The emission-line ratios are consistent with those typically
found in Seyfert nuclei and indicate that within the inner near-nuclear region
(r ~< 1") the ionization decreases with increasing radius. Upper-limits to the
[O III] electron temperature (T ~< 11,000 K) for the inner NLR clouds indicate
that photoionization is the dominant ionization mechanism close to the nucleus.
The emission-line fluxes for most of the NLR clouds can be reproduced
reasonably well by simple photoionization models using a central power-law
continuum source and supersolar nitrogen abundances. Shock+precursor models,
however, provide a better fit to the observed fluxes of an NLR cloud ~2.5"
south of the nucleus that is identified with the extra-nuclear cloud (XNC). The
large [O III] electron temperature of this cloud (T = 24,000 K) further
suggests the presence of shocks. This cloud is straddled by two radio knots and
lies near the location where a weak radio jet, ~2.5" (102pc) in extent,
connects the near-nuclear radio emission with a diffuse lobe structure spanning
\~4" (163 pc). It is plausible that this cloud represents the location where
the radio jet impinges on the disk ISM.