We present an X-ray spectral analysis of 21 low redshift quasars observed
with XMM-Newton EPIC. All the sources are Palomar Green quasars with redshifts
between 0.05 and 0.4 and have low Galactic absorption along the line-of-sight.
A large majority of quasars in the sample (19/21) exhibit a significant soft
excess below ~1-1.5keV, whilst two objects (PG1114+445 and IZw1) show a deficit
of soft X-ray flux due to the presence of a strong warm absorber. At least half
of the objects appear to harbor a warm absorber, as found previously in Seyfert
1 galaxies. We find significant detections of FeKalpha emission lines in at
least twelve objects, whilst there is evidence for some broadening of the line
profile, compared to the EPIC-pn resolution, in five of these quasars.
 The determination of the nature of this broadening (e.g., Keplerian motion, a
blend of lines, relativistic effects) is not possible with the present data and
requires either higher S/N or higher resolution spectra. In seven objects the
line is located between 6.7-7keV, corresponding to highly ionized iron, whereas
in the other five objects the line energy is consistent with 6.4 keV, i.e.
corresponding to near neutral iron. The ionized lines tend to be found in the
quasars with the steepest X-ray spectra. We also find a correlation between the
continuum power law index and the optical Hbeta width, in both the soft and
hard X-ray bands, whereby the steepest X-ray spectra are found in objects with
narrow Hbeta widths, which confirms previous ROSAT and ASCA results. The soft
and hard band X-ray photon indices are also strongly correlated, i.e. the
steepest soft X-ray spectra correspond the steepest hard X-ray spectra.