We study the spatial decay of eigenfunctions of non-local Schr\"odinger
operators based on generators of symmetric jump-paring L\'evy processes with
Kato-class potentials decaying at infinity. This class of processes has the
property that the intensity of single large jumps dominates the intensity of
all multiple large jumps. We find that the decay rates of eigenfunctions depend
on the process via specific preference rates in particular jump scenarios, and
depend on the potential through the distance of the corresponding eigenvalue
from the edge of the continuous spectrum. We prove that the conditions of the
jump-paring class imply that for all eigenvalues the corresponding positive
eigenfunctions decay at most as rapidly as the L\'evy intensity. This condition
is sharp in the sense that if the jump-paring property fails to hold, then
eigenfunction decay becomes slower than the decay of the L\'evy intensity. We
furthermore prove that under reasonable conditions the L\'evy intensity also
governs the upper bounds of eigenfunctions, and a ground state is comparable to
it by two-sided bounds. As an interesting consequence, we identify a sharp
regime change in the decay of eigenfunctions as the L\'evy intensity is varied
from sub-exponential to exponential order, and dependent on the location of the
eigenvalue, in the sense that through the transition L\'evy intensity-driven
decay becomes slower than the rate of L\'evy intensity. Our approach is based
on path integration and probabilistic potential theory techniques, and all
results are also illustrated by specific examples.