In the framework of the Water in Star-forming regions with Herschel (WISH)
key program, maps in water lines of several outflows from young stars are being
obtained, to study the water production in shocks and its role in the outflow
cooling. This paper reports the first results of this program, presenting a
PACS map of the o-H2O 179 um transition obtained toward the young outflow
L1157. The 179 um map is compared with those of other important shock tracers,
and with previous single-pointing ISO, SWAS, and Odin water observations of the
same source that allow us to constrain the water abundance and total cooling.
Strong H2O peaks are localized on both shocked emission knots and the central
source position. The H2O 179 um emission is spatially correlated with emission
from H2 rotational lines, excited in shocks leading to a significant
enhancement of the water abundance. Water emission peaks along the outflow also
correlate with peaks of other shock-produced molecular species, such as SiO and
NH3. A strong H2O peak is also observed at the location of the proto-star,
where none of the other molecules have significant emission. The absolute 179
um intensity and its intensity ratio to the H2O 557 GHz line previously
observed with Odin/SWAS indicate that the water emission originates in warm
compact clumps, spatially unresolved by PACS, having a H2O abundance of the
order of 10^-4. This testifies that the clumps have been heated for a time long
enough to allow the conversion of almost all the available gas-phase oxygen
into water. The total water cooling is ~10^-1 Lo, about 40% of the cooling due
to H2 and 23% of the total energy released in shocks along the L1157 outflow.