We study the frequency of Mg II absorption in the outer haloes of galaxies at
z = 0.6 - 1.4 (with median z = 0.87), using new spectra obtained of ten
background quasars with galaxy impact parameters of b < 100 kpc. The quasar
sightlines were selected from the SDSS DR6 QSO catalog based on proximity to
galaxies in the DEEP2 redshift survey. In addition to the 10 small impact
systems, we examine 40 additional galaxies at 100 < b < 500 kpc serendipitously
located in the same fields. We detect Mg II absorbers with equivalent width W_r
= 0.15 A - 1.0 A, though not all absorbers correlate with DEEP galaxies. We
find five unique absorbers within \Delta v = 500 km/s and b < 100 kpc of a DEEP
galaxy; this small sample contains both early and late type galaxies and has no
obvious trends with star formation rate. No Mg II is detected more than 100 kpc
from galaxies; inside this radius the covering fraction scales with impact
parameter and galaxy luminosity in very similar fashion to samples studied at
lower redshift. In all but one case, when Mg II is detected without a
spectroscopically confirmed galaxy, there exists a plausible photometric
candidate which was excluded because of slit collision or apparent magnitude.
We do not detect any strong absorbers with W_r > 1.0 A, consistent with other
samples of galaxy-selected Mg II systems. We speculate that Mg II systems with
0.3 < W_r < 1.0 trace old relic material from galactic outflows and/or the halo
assembly process, and that in contrast, systems with large W_r are more likely
to reflect the more recent star forming history of their associated galaxies.