We explore the effects of nuclear masses on the temperature and neutron
density conditions required for r-process nucleosynthesis using four nuclear
mass models augmented by the latest atomic mass evaluation. For each model we
derive the conditions for producing the observed abundance peaks at mass
numbers A ~ 80, 130, and 195 under the waiting-point approximation and further
determine the sets of conditions that can best reproduce the r-process
abundance patterns (r-patterns) inferred for the solar system and observed in
metal-poor stars of the Milky Way halo. In broad agreement with previous
studies, we find that (1) the conditions for producing abundance peaks at A ~
80 and 195 tend to be very different, which suggests that, at least for some
nuclear mass models, these two peaks are not produced simultaneously; (2) the
typical conditions required by the critical waiting-point (CWP) nuclei with the
N = 126 closed neutron shell overlap significantly with those required by the
N=82 CWP nuclei, which enables coproduction of abundance peaks at A ~ 130 and
195 in accordance with observations of many metal-poor stars; and (3) the
typical conditions required by the N = 82 CWP nuclei can reproduce the
r-pattern observed in the metal-poor star HD 122563, which differs greatly from
the solar r-pattern. We also examine how nuclear mass uncertainties affect the
conditions required for the r-process and identify some key nuclei
including76Ni to 78Ni, 82Zn, 131Cd, and 132Cd for precise mass measurements at
rare-isotope beam facilities.