Based on the fact that the underpotential electrochemical deposition of Ag
atoms on the $Au(100)$ surface exhibits sharp first-order phase transitions at
well-defined values of the (coexistence) chemical potential ($\mu_{coex}$), we
performed extensive simulations aimed at investigating the hysteretic dynamic
behavior of the system close to coexistence upon the application of a periodic
signal of the form $\mu(t) = \mu_{coex} + \mu_{o}sin(2\Pi t/\tau) $, where
$\mu_{o}$ and $\tau$ are the amplitude and the period of the sweep,
respectively. For relatively short periods and small enough amplitudes the
system becomes trapped either at low or high Ag coverage states, as evidenced
by recording hysteresis loops. This scenario is identified as dynamically
ordered states (DOS), such that the relaxation time $(\tau_{relax})$ of the
corresponding metastable state obeys $\tau_{relax} > \tau $. On the other hand,
by properly increasing $\mu_{o}$ or/and $\tau$, one finds that the $Ag$
coverage gently follows the external drive (here $\tau_{relax} < \tau $) and
the system is said to enter into dynamically disordered states (DDS), where
hysteresis loops show almost symmetric limiting cycles. This symmetry breaking
between limiting cycles driven by an external signal is discussed in terms of
the concept of (out-of-equilibrium) Dynamic Phase Transitions between DOS and
DDS, similar to those encountered when a magnetic system is placed in the
presence of a variable external magnetic field. However, a careful finite-size
scaling study reveals that, at least at $T = 300K$, the $Ag/Au(100)$ system
does not exhibit true second-order phase transitions but rather a crossover
behavior between states. A diagram showing the location of the ordered and
disordered states in the $\mu$ versus $\tau$ plane is obtained and discussed.