Pseudopotentials, tight-binding models, and $k\cdot p$ theory have stood for
many years as the standard techniques for computing electronic states in
crystalline solids. Here we present the first new method in decades, which we
call atomistic $k\cdot p$ theory. In its usual formulation, $k\cdot p$ theory
has the advantage of depending on parameters that are directly related to
experimentally measured quantities, however it is insensitive to the locations
of individual atoms. We construct an atomistic $k\cdot p$ theory by defining
envelope functions on a grid matching the crystal lattice. The model parameters
are matrix elements which are obtained from experimental results or {\it ab
initio} wave functions in a simple way. This is in contrast to the other
atomistic approaches in which parameters are fit to reproduce a desired
dispersion and are not expressible in terms of fundamental quantities. This
fitting is often very difficult. We illustrate our method by constructing a
four-band atomistic model for a diamond/zincblende crystal and show that it is
equivalent to the $sp^3$ tight-binding model. We can thus directly derive the
parameters in the $sp^3$ tight-binding model from experimental data. We then
take the atomistic limit of the widely used eight-band Kane model and compute
the band structures for all III-V semiconductors not containing nitrogen or
boron using parameters fit to experimental data. Our new approach extends
$k\cdot p$ theory to problems in which atomistic precision is required, such as
impurities, alloys, polytypes, and interfaces. It also provides a new approach
to multiscale modeling by allowing continuum and atomistic $k\cdot p$ models to
be combined in the same system.