Sedimentary records of tsunamis are a precious tool to assess the occurrence
of past events, as attested by an abundant literature, which has seen a
particular 'boom' in the aftermath of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the
2011 Tohoku tsunami. Despite an extensive literature, there is very little to
no understanding of the role that the changing coastal environment is playing
on the record of a tsunami, and for a given location, it is still unclear
whether the largest tsunamis leave the largest amount of deposits. To research
this question, the present study took place in Japan, in the Tohoku Region at
Agawa-pond, because the pond act as a sediment trap. Using a sediment-slicer, a
1 m thick deposit was retrieved, from which 4 tsunami sequences were
identified, including the latest 2011 tsunami. Using a series of sedimentary
proxies: the AMS (Anisotropy of Magnetic Susceptibility), grain size analysis,
quartz morphoscopy (morphology and surface characteristics) and the analysis of
microfossils, disparities between the tsunami deposits were identified and most
importantly a clear thinning of the tsunami deposit towards the top. Provided
the present evidences, the contributors discuss that the upward fining is due to at
least two components that are seldom assessed in tsunami research (1) a
modification of the depositional environment, with the progressive
anthropization of the coast, providing less sediments to remobilize; and (2) a
progressive filling of the Agawa pond, which progressively loses its ability to
trap tsunami materials.