We calculate optically thick but geometrically thin (and slim) accretion disk
models and perform a ray-tracing of photons (in the Kerr geometry) to calculate
the observed disk spectra. Previously, it was a common practice to ray-trace
photons assuming that they are emitted from the Kerr geometry equatorial plane,
z = 0. We show that the spectra calculated with this assumption differ from
these calculated under the assumption that photons are emitted from the actual
surface of the disc, z = H(r). This implies that a knowledge of the location of
the thin disks effective photosphere is relevant for calculating the spectra.
In this paper we investigate, in terms of a simple toy model, a possible
influence of the (unknown, and therefore ad hoc assumed) vertical dissipation
profiles on the vertical structure of the disk and thus on the location of the
effective photosphere, and on the observed spectra. For disks with moderate and
high mass accretion rates (\dot m>0.01\dot m_C) we find that the photosphere
location in the inner, radiation pressure dominated, disk region (where most of
the radiation comes from) does not depend on the dissipation profile and
therefore emerging disk spectra are insensitive to the choice of the
dissipation function. For lower accretion rates the photosphere location
depends on the assumed vertical dissipation profile down to the disk inner
edge, but the dependence is very weak and thus of minor importance. We conclude
that the spectra of optically thick accretion disks around black holes should
be calculated with the ray-tracing from the effective photosphere and that,
fortunately, the choice of a particular vertical dissipation profile does not
substantially influence the calculated spectrum.