We produce mock angular catalogues from simulations with different initial
power spectra to test methods that recover measures of clustering in three
dimensions, such as the power spectrum, variance and higher order cumulants. We
find that the statistical properties derived from the angular mock catalogues
are in good agreement with the intrinsic clustering in the simulations. In
particular, we concentrate on the detailed predictions for the shape of the
power spectrum, $P(k)$. We find that there is good evidence for a break in the
galaxy $P(k)$ at scales between $ 0.02 < k < 0.06 ~\impc$ using an inversion
technique applied to the angular correlation function measured from the APM
Galaxy Survey. For variants on the standard Cold Dark Matter model, a fit at
the location of the break implies $\Omega h= 0.45 \pm 0.10$, where $\Omega$ is
the ratio of the total matter density to the critical density and Hubble's
constant is parameterised as $H_{0}= 100~hkm ~s^{-1}Mpc^{-1}$. On slightly
smaller, though still quasi-linear scales, there is a feature in the APM power
spectrum where the local slope changes appreciably, with the best match to CDM
models obtained for $\Omega h \simeq 0.2$. Hence the location and narrowness of
the break in the APM power spectrum combined with the rapid change in its slope
on quasi-linear scales cannot be matched by any variant of CDM, including
models that have a non-zero cosmological constant or a tilt to the slope of the
primordial $P(k)$. These results are independent of the overall normalization
of the CDM models or any simple bias that exists between the galaxy and mass
distributions.