Disks around young stars are known to evolve from optically thick,
gas-dominated protoplanetary disks to optically thin, almost gas-free debris
disks. It is thought that the primordial gas is largely removed at ages of ~10
Myr, but it is difficult to discern the true gas densities from gas
observations. This suggests using observations of dust: it has been argued that
gas, if present with higher densities, would lead to flatter radial profiles of
the dust density and surface brightness than those actually observed. However,
here we show that these profiles are surprisingly insensitive to variation of
the parameters of a central star, location of the dust-producing planetesimal
belt, dustiness of the disk and - most importantly - the parameters of the
ambient gas. This result holds for a wide range of gas densities (three orders
of magnitude), for different radial distributions of the gas temperature, and
different gas compositions. The brightness profile slopes of -3...-4 we find
are the same that were theoretically found for gas-free debris disks, and they
are the same as actually retrieved from observations of many debris disks. Our
specific results for three young (10-30 Myr old), spatially resolved, edge-on
debris disks (beta Pic, HD 32297, and AU Mic) show that the observed radial
profiles of the surface brightness do not pose any stringent constraints on the
gas component of the disk. We cannot exclude that outer parts of the systems
may have retained substantial amounts of primordial gas which is not evident in
the gas observations (e.g. as much as 50 Earth masses for beta Pic). However,
the possibility that gas, most likely secondary, is only present in little to
moderate amounts, as deduced from gas detections (e.g. ~0.05 Earth masses in
the beta Pic disk), remains open, too.