Planetary and synoptic scale wave-packets represent one important component
of the atmospheric large-scale circulation. These dissipative structures are
able to rapidly transport eddy kinetic energy, generated locally (e.g. by
baroclinic conversion), downstream along the upper tropospheric flow. The
transported energy, moving faster than individual weather systems, will affect
the development of the next meteorological system on the leading edge of the
wave packet, creating a chain of connections between systems that can be far
apart in time and space, with important implications on predictability. In this
work we present an automated recognition of atmospheric wave packets which
allows the extraction of all the relevant properties, such as location,
duration and velocity. Behind this tool lies the need to investigate
atmospheric variability in its full complexity, bridging the low-frequency
steady-state approach with the storm-tracks lagrangian approach. We have
applied the algorithm to the daily analysis (every 12h) from 1958-2010,
building an extended climatology of waves packets with different spectral
properties. We show that wave packets characteristics over Northern Hemisphere
exhibit a strong seasonal dependence, both in their spectral component and in
their distribution and localization. The maximum activity is reached in the
cold months, from autumn to spring, with a slight weakening in mid-winter and a
clear minimum of activity in summer. Preferential areas of genesis are shown to
be the Western and Central-Pacific and Western-Atlantic while areas of lyses
are the eastern borders of Pacific and Atlantic. We envisage possible
applications of this algorithm also for predictability studies and operational
activities.