Cornerstone molecules (CO, H_2CO, CH_3OH, HCN, HNC, CN, CS, SO) were observed
toward seven sub-millimeter bright sources in the Orion molecular cloud in
order to quantify the range of conditions for which individual molecular line
tracers provide physical and chemical information. Five of the sources observed
were protostellar, ranging in energetics from 1 - 500L_sun, while the other two
sources were located at a shock front and within a photodissociation region
(PDR).
  Statistical equilibrium calculations were used to deduce from the measured
line strengths the physical conditions within each source and the abundance of
each molecule. In all cases except the shock and the PDR, the abundance of CO
with respect to H_2 appears significantly below (factor of ten) the general
molecular cloud value of 10^-4. {Formaldehyde measurements were used to
estimate a mean temperature and density for the gas in each source. Evidence
was found for trends between the derived abundance of CO, H_2CO, CH_3OH, and CS
and the energetics of the source, with hotter sources having higher
abundances.} Determining whether this is due to a linear progression of
abundance with temperature or sharp jumps at particular temperatures will
require more detailed modeling. The observed methanol transitions require high
temperatures (T>50 K), and thus energetic sources, within all but one of the
observed protostellar sources. The same conclusion is obtained from
observations of the CS 7-6 transition. Analysis of the HCN and HNC 4-3
transitions provides further support for high densities n> 10^7 cm^-3 in all
the protostellar sources.