In probability density function (PDF) methods of turbulent flows, the joint
PDF of several flow variables is computed by numerically integrating a system
of stochastic differential equations for Lagrangian particles. A set of
parallel algorithms is proposed to provide an efficient solution of the PDF
transport equation, modeling the joint PDF of turbulent velocity, frequency and
concentration of a passive scalar in geometrically complex configurations. An
unstructured Eulerian grid is employed to extract Eulerian statistics, to solve
for quantities represented at fixed locations of the domain (e.g. the mean
pressure) and to track particles. All three aspects regarding the grid make use
of the finite element method (FEM) employing the simplest linear FEM shape
functions. To model the small-scale mixing of the transported scalar, the
interaction by exchange with the conditional mean model is adopted. An adaptive
algorithm that computes the velocity-conditioned scalar mean is proposed that
homogenizes the statistical error over the sample space with no assumption on
the shape of the underlying velocity PDF. Compared to other hybrid
particle-in-cell approaches for the PDF equations, the current methodology is
consistent without the need for consistency conditions. The algorithm is tested
by computing the dispersion of passive scalars released from concentrated
sources in two different turbulent flows: the fully developed turbulent channel
flow and a street canyon (or cavity) flow. Algorithmic details on estimating
conditional and unconditional statistics, particle tracking and particle-number
control are presented in detail. Relevant aspects of performance and
parallelism on cache-based shared memory machines are discussed.