In this paper, we study the temperature and density properties of multiple
structural components of coronal mass ejections (CMEs) using differential
emission measure (DEM) analysis. The DEM analysis is based on the six-passband
EUV observations of solar corona from the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly onboard
the \emph{Solar Dynamic Observatory}. The structural components studied include
the hot channel in the core region (presumably the magnetic flux rope of the
CME), the bright loop-like leading front (LF), and coronal dimming in the wake
of the CME. We find that the presumed flux rope has the highest average
temperature ($>$8 MK) and density ($\sim$1.0 $\times10^{9}$ cm$^{-3}$),
resulting in an enhanced emission measure (EM) over a broad temperature range
(3 $\leq$ T(MK) $\leq$ 20). On the other hand, the CME LF has a relatively cool
temperature ($\sim$2 MK) and a narrow temperature distribution similar to the
pre-eruption coronal temperature (1 $\leq$ T(MK) $\leq$ 3). The density in the
LF, however, is increased by 2% to 32% compared with that of the pre-eruption
corona, depending on the event and location. In coronal dimmings, the
temperature is more broadly distributed (1 $\leq$ T(MK) $\leq$ 4), but the
density decreases by $\sim$35% to $\sim$40%. These observational results show
that: (1) CME core regions are significantly heated, presumably through
magnetic reconnection, (2) CME LFs are a consequence of compression of ambient
plasma caused by the expansion of the CME core region, and (3) the dimmings are
largely caused by the plasma rarefaction associated with the eruption.