We are performing a systematic study of the interstellar medium around
extended green objects (EGOs), likely massive young stellar objects driving
outflows. EGO G35.04-0.47 is located towards a dark cloud at the northern-west
edge of an HII region. Recently, H2 jets were discovered towards this source,
mainly towards its southwest, where the H2 1-0 S(1) emission peaks. Therefore,
the source was catalogued as the Molecular Hydrogen emission-line object MHO
2429. In order to study the molecular ambient towards this star-forming site,
we observed a region around the aforementioned EGO using the Atacama
Submillimeter Telescope Experiment in the 12CO J=3--2, 13CO J=3--2, HCO+
J=4--3, and CS J=7--6 lines with an angular and spectral resolution of 22" and
0.11 km s-1, respectively. The observations revealed a molecular clump where
the EGO is embedded at v_LSR ~ 51 km s-1, in coincidence with the velocity of a
Class I 95 GHz methanol maser previously detected. Analyzing the 12CO line we
discovered high velocity molecular gas in the range from 34 to 47 km s-1, most
likely a blueshifted outflow driven by the EGO. The alignment and shape of this
molecular structure coincide with those of the southwest lobe of MHO 2429
mainly between 46 and 47 km s-1, confirming that we are mapping its CO
counterpart. Performing a SED analysis of EGO G35.04-0.47 we found that its
central object should be an intermediate-mass young stellar object accreting
mass at a rate similar to those found in some massive YSOs. We suggest that
this source can become a massive YSO.