The Cassini Division in Saturn's rings contains a series of eight named gaps,
three of which contain dense ringlets. Observations of stellar occultations by
the Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer onboard the Cassini spacecraft
have yielded ~40 accurate and precise measurements of the radial position of
the edges of all of these gaps and ringlets. These data reveal suggestive
patterns in the shapes of many of the gap edges: the outer edges of the 5 gaps
without ringlets are circular to within 1 km, while the inner edges of 6 of the
gaps are eccentric, with apsidal precession rates consistent with those
expected for eccentric orbits near each edge. Intriguingly, the pattern speeds
of these eccentric inner gap edges, together with that of the eccentric Huygens
ringlet,form a series with a characteristic spacing of 0.06 degrees/day. The
two gaps with non-eccentric inner edges lie near first-order Inner Lindblad
Resonances (ILRs) with moons. One such edge is close to the 5:4 ILR with
Prometheus. The other resonantly confined edge is the outer edge of the B ring,
which lies near the 2:1 Mimas ILR. Detailed investigation of the B-ring-edge
data confirm the presence of an m=2 perturbation on the B-ring edge, but also
suggest that this pattern moves or librates relative to Mimas. The B-ring edge
also has an m=1 component that rotates around the planet at a rate close to the
expected apsidal precession rate. The pattern speeds of the eccentric edges in
the Cassini Division can potentially be generated from various combinations of
the pattern speeds of structures observed on the edge of the B ring. We
therefore suggest that the locations of most of the gaps in the Cassini
Division may be determined by resonances involving a combination of
perturbations from Mimas and the massive edge of the B ring.