Flare kernels are compact features located in the solar chromosphere that are
the sites of rapid heating and plasma upflow during the rise phase of flares.
An example is presented from a M1.1 class flare observed on 2011 February 16
07:44 UT for which the location of the upflow region seen by EIS can be
precisely aligned to high spatial resolution images obtained by the Atmospheric
Imaging Assembly (AIA) and Heliospheric Magnetic Imager (HMI) on board the
Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). A string of bright flare kernels is found to
be aligned with a ridge of strong magnetic field, and one kernel site is
highlighted for which an upflow speed of 400 km/s is measured in lines formed
at 10-30 MK. The line-of-sight magnetic field strength at this location is 1000
G. Emission over a continuous range of temperatures down to the chromosphere is
found, and the kernels have a similar morphology at all temperatures and are
spatially coincident with sizes at the resolution limit of the AIA instrument
(< 400 km). For temperatures of 0.3-3.0 MK the EIS emission lines show multiple
velocity components, with the dominant component becoming more blue-shifted
with temperature from a redshift of 35 km/s at 0.3 MK to a blueshift of 60 km/s
at 3.0 MK. Emission lines from 1.5-3.0 MK show a weak redshifted component at
around 60-70 km/s implying multi-directional flows at the kernel site.
Significant non-thermal broadening corresponding to velocities of 120 km/s is
found at 10-30MK, and the electron density in the kernel, measured at 2 MK, is
3.4 x 10^10 cm-3. Finally, the Fe XXIV 192.03/255.11 ratio suggests that the
EIS calibration has changed since launch, with the long wavelength channel less
sensitive than the short wavelength channel by around a factor two.