We study the effects of a class of features of the potential of slow-roll
inflationary models corresponding to a step symmetrically dumped by an even
power negative exponential factor. We compute the effects on the background
evolution and on the scalar and tensor perturbations. This class of features
differs from other branch-type features considered previously because the
potential is only affected in a limited range of the scalar field value, and is
symmetric respect to the location of the feature. As a consequence this type of
features only affects the spectrum and bispectrum in a narrow range of scales
which leave the horizon during the time interval corresponding to the
modification of the potential, contrary to branch-type features which have
effects on all the perturbation modes leaving the horizon when the field value
is within the interval defining the branch.
  When the scalar field enters the range affected by the feature the slow-roll
conditions are temporarily violated, but once the field leaves the interval
affected by the feature the slow roll regime is re-established. The
tensor-to-scalar ration, the spectrum and bispectrum of primordial curvature
perturbations are affected by oscillations around the scale $k_0$ exiting the
horizon at the time $\tau_0$ of the feature. The amplitude of the oscillations
depends on the parameters defining the feature, and the effects are larger when
the potential has a steeper change, since in this case the slow-roll violation
is also stronger. Due to the local nature of their effects these type of
features could be used to model local glitches of the power spectrum without
affecting other scales.