Recent discoveries of highly dispersed millisecond radio bursts by Thornton
et al. in a survey with the Parkes radio telescope at 1.4 GHz point towards an
emerging population of sources at cosmological distances whose origin is
currently unclear. Here we demonstrate that the scattering effects at lower
radio frequencies are less than previously thought, and that the bursts could
be detectable at redshifts out to about $z=0.5$ in surveys below 1 GHz. Using a
source model in which the bursts are standard candles with bolometric
luminosities $\sim 8 \times 10^{44}$ ergs/s uniformly distributed per unit
comoving volume, we derive an expression for the observed peak flux density as
a function of redshift and use this, together with the rate estimates found by
Thornton et al. to find an empirical relationship between event rate and
redshift probed by a given survey. The non-detection of any such events in
Arecibo 1.4 GHz survey data by Deneva et al., and the Allen Telescope Array
survey by Simeon et al. is consistent with our model. Ongoing surveys in the
1--2 GHz band should result in further discoveries. At lower frequencies,
assuming a typical radio spectral index $\alpha=-1.4$, the predicted peak flux
densities are 10s of Jy. As a result, surveys of such a population with current
facilities would not necessarily be sensitivity limited and could be carried
out with small arrays to maximize the sky coverage. We predict that sources may
already be present in 350-MHz surveys with the Green Bank Telescope. Surveys at
150 MHz with 30 deg$^2$ fields of view could detect one source per hour above
30 Jy.