This paper studies spatial capacity in a stochastic wireless ad hoc network,
where multi-stage probing and data transmission are sequentially performed. We
propose a novel signal-to-interference-ratio (SIR) threshold based scheduling
scheme, where by starting with the first probing, each transmitter iteratively
decides to further probe or stay idle, depending on whether the estimated SIR
in the proceeding probing is larger or smaller than a predefined threshold.
Although one can assume that the transmitters are initially deployed according
to a homogeneous Poisson point process (PPP), the SIR based scheduling makes
the PPP no longer applicable to model the locations of retained transmitters in
the subsequent probing and data transmission phases, due to the interference
induced coupling in their decisions. We first focus on single-stage probing and
find that when the SIR threshold is set sufficiently small to assure an
acceptable interference level in the network, the proposed scheme can greatly
outperform the non-scheduling reference scheme in terms of spatial capacity. We
clearly characterize the spatial capacity and obtain exact/approximate
closed-form expressions, by proposing a new approximate approach to deal with
the correlated SIR distributions over non-Poisson point processes. Then we
successfully extend to multi-stage probing by properly designing the multiple
SIR thresholds to assure gradual improvement of the spatial capacity.
Furthermore, we analyze the impact of multi-stage probing overhead and present
a probing-capacity tradeoff in scheduling design. Finally, extensive numerical
results are presented to demonstrate the performance of the proposed scheduling
as compared to existing schemes.