We study Klein-Nishina (KN) effects in the spectrum produced by a steady
state, non-thermal source where rapidly accelerated electrons cool by emitting
synchrotron radiation and Compton upscattering ambient photons produced outside
the source. We focus on the case where the radiation density inside the source
exceeds that of the magnetic field. We show that the KN reduction in the
electron Compton cooling rate causes the steady-state electron spectrum to
harden at energies above \gamma_{KN}, where \gamma_{KN}= 1/4\epsilon_0 and
\epsilon_0=h\nu_0/m_ec^2 is the characteristic ambient photon energy. The
source synchrotron spectrum thus shows a high-energy ``bump'' or excess even
though the electron acceleration spectrum has no such excess. In contrast, the
low-energy Compton gamma-ray spectrum shows little distortion because the
electron hardening compensates for the KN decline in the scattering rate. For
sufficiently high electron energies, however, Compton cooling becomes so
inefficient that synchrotron cooling dominates -- an effect omitted in most
previous studies. The hardening of the electron distribution thus stops,
leading to a rapid decline in Compton gamma-ray emission, i.e., a strong
spectral break whose location does not depend on the maximum electron energy.
This break can limit the importance of Compton gamma-ray pair production on
ambient photons and implies that a source's synchrotron luminosity may exceed
its Compton luminosity even though the source magnetic field energy density is
smaller than the ambient radiation energy density. We discuss the importance of
these KN effects in blazars, micro-quasars, and pulsar binaries.