We give an alternative description of the data produced in the KamLAND
experiment, assuming the existence of a natural nuclear reactor on the boundary
of the liquid and solid phases of the Earth's core. Analyzing the uncertainty
of antineutrino spectrum of georeactor origin, we show that the theoretical
(which takes into account the soliton-like nuclear georeactor) total reactor
antineutrino spectra describe with good accuracy the experimental KamLAND-data
over the years of 2002-2007 and 2002-2009, respectively. At the same time the
parameters of mixing ({\Delta}(m21)^2=2.5\cdot 10^-5 eV^2,
tan^2{\theta}12=0.437) calculated within the framework of georeactor hypothesis
substantially differ from the parameters of mixing ({\Delta}(m21)^2=7.49\cdot
10^-5 eV^2, tan^2{\theta}12=0.436) obtained in KamLAND-experiment for total
exposure over the period of 2002-2009. By traingulation of KamLAND and Borexino
data we have constructed the coordinate location of soliton-like nuclear
georeactors on the boundary of the liquid and solid phases of the Earth core.
Based on the necessary condition of full synchronization of geological
(magnetic) time scale and time evolution of heat power of nuclear georeactor,
which plays the role of energy source of the Earth magnetic field, and also the
strong negative correlation between magnetic field of the solar tachocline zone
and magnetic field of the Earth liquid core (Y-component) we have obtain the
estimation of nuclear georeactor average heat power ~30 TW over the years
2002-2009.