Antarctica provides a unique environment for astronomy. The cold, dry and
stable air found above the high plateau, as well as the pure ice below, offers
new opportunities across the photon & particle spectrum. The summits of the
plateau provide the best seeing conditions, the darkest skies and the most
transparent atmosphere of any earth-based observing site. Astronomical
activities are now underway at four plateau sites: the Amundsen-Scott South
Pole Station, Concordia Station at Dome C, Kunlun Station at Dome A and Fuji
Station at Dome F, in addition to long duration ballooning from the coastal
station of McMurdo. Astronomy conducted includes optical, IR, THz & sub-mm,
measurements of the CMBR, solar, as well as high energy astrophysics involving
measurement of cosmic rays, gamma rays and neutrinos. Antarctica is also the
richest source of meteorites on our planet. An extensive range of site testing
measurements have been made over the high plateau. We summarise the facets of
Antarctica that are driving developments in astronomy, and review the results
of the site testing experiments undertaken to quantify those characteristics of
the plateau relevant for it pursuit. We outline the historical development of
the astronomy on the continent, and then review the principal scientific
results to have emerged over the past three decades of activity in the
discipline. We discuss how science is conducted in Antarctica, and in
particular the difficulties, as well as the advantages, faced by astronomers
seeking to bring their experiments there. We also review some of the political
issues that will be encountered, both at national and international level.
Finally, we discuss where Antarctic astronomy may be heading in the coming
decade, in particular plans for IR & THz astronomy, including new facilities
being considered for these wavebands at high plateau stations.