We present Chandra ACIS-I and ACIS-S observations (~200ks in total) of the
X-ray luminous elliptical galaxy NGC4636, located in the outskirts of the Virgo
cluster. A soft band (0.5-2 keV) image shows the presence of a bright core in
the center surrounded by an extended X-ray corona and two pronounced
quasi-symmetric, 8 kpc long, arm-like features. Each of this features defines
the rim of an ellipsoidal bubble. An additional bubble-like feature, whose
northern rim is located ~2 kpc south of the north-eastern arm, is detected as
well. We present surface brightness and temperature profiles across the rims of
the bubbles, showing that their edges are sharp and characterized by
temperature jumps of about 20-25%. Through a comparison of the observed
profiles with theoretical shock models, we demonstrate that a scenario where
the bubbles were produced by shocks, probably driven by energy deposited
off-center by jets, is the most viable explanation to the X-ray morphology
observed in the central part of NGC4636. As a confirmation to this scenario,
radio jets extending towards the bubbles and a central weak X-ray and radio
source are detected and are most likely the signs of AGN activity which was
more intense in the past. A bright dense core of ~1 kpc radius is observed at
the center of NGC4636. A sharp decline in surface brightness from the core to
the ambient gas is observed and is not accompanied by a variation in the
temperature and thus could not be in thermal pressure equilibrium. However the
bright core could be a long lived feature if the radio jets are acting as a
balancing factor to thermal pressure or if the bright core is produced by steep
abundance gradients.