1. Predicting space use patterns of animals from their interactions with the
environment is fundamental for understanding the effect of habitat changes on
ecosystem functioning. Recent attempts to address this problem have sought to
unify resource selection analysis, where animal space use is derived from
available habitat quality, and mechanistic movement models, where detailed
movement processes of an animal are used to predict its emergent utilization
distribution. Such models bias the animal's movement towards patches that are
easily available and resource-rich, and the result is a predicted probability
density at a given position being a function of the habitat quality at that
position. However, in reality, the probability that an animal will use a patch
of the terrain tends to be a function of the resource quality in both that
patch and the surrounding habitat. 2. We propose a mechanistic model where this
non-local effect of resources naturally emerges from the local movement
processes, by taking into account the relative utility of both the habitat
where the animal currently resides and that of where it is moving. We give
statistical techniques to parametrize the model from location data and
demonstrate application of these techniques to GPS data of caribou in
Newfoundland. 3. Steady-state animal probability distributions arising from the
model have complex patterns that cannot be expressed simply as a function of
the local quality of the habitat. In particular, large areas of good habitat
are used more intensively than smaller patches of equal quality habitat,
whereas isolated patches are used less frequently. 4. Whilst we focus on
habitats in this study, our modelling framework can be readily used with any
environmental covariates and therefore represents a unification of mechanistic
modelling and step selection approaches to understanding animal space use.