We present Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) 1.3 mm
continuum images of the asteroid 3 Juno obtained with an angular resolution of
0.042 arcseconds (60 km at 1.97 AU). The data were obtained over a single 4.4
hr interval, which covers 60% of the 7.2 hr rotation period, approximately
centered on local transit. A sequence of ten consecutive images reveals
continuous changes in the asteroid's profile and apparent shape, in good
agreement with the sky projection of the three-dimensional model of the
Database of Asteroid Models from Inversion Techniques. We measure a geometric
mean diameter of 259pm4 km, in good agreement with past estimates from a
variety of techniques and wavelengths. Due to the viewing angle and inclination
of the rotational pole, the southern hemisphere dominates all of the images.
The median peak brightness temperature is 215pm13 K, while the median over the
whole surface is 197pm15 K. With the unprecedented resolution of ALMA, we find
that the brightness temperature varies across the surface with higher values
correlated to the subsolar point and afternoon areas, and lower values beyond
the evening terminator. The dominance of the subsolar point is accentuated in
the final four images, suggesting a reduction in the thermal inertia of the
regolith at the corresponding longitudes, which are possibly correlated to the
location of the putative large impact crater. These results demonstrate ALMA's
potential to resolve thermal emission from the surface of main belt asteroids,
and to measure accurately their position, geometric shape, rotational period,
and soil characteristics.