We present high-resolution J-, H-, and K-band observations and the first H-K
color image of the carbon star IRC +10216. The images were reconstructed from
6m telescope speckle interferograms using the bispectrum speckle interferometry
method. The H and K images with resolutions between 70mas and 92mas consist of
several compact components within a 0.2" radius and a fainter asymmetric
nebula. The brightest four components are denoted with A to D in the order of
decreasing brightness in the 1996 image. A comparison of our images from 1995,
1996, 1997, and 1998 gives - almost like a movie of five frames - insight into
the dynamical evolution of the inner nebula. For instance, the separation of
the two brightest components A and B increased from 191 mas in 1995 to 265 mas
in 1998. At the same time, component B is fading and the components C and D
become brighter. The X-shaped bipolar structure of the nebula, most prominently
present in the J-band image, implies an asymmetric mass loss. Such asymmetries
are often present in protoplanetary nebulae but are unexpected for AGB stars.
IRC +10216 is thus likely to be very advanced in its AGB evolution, shortly
before turning into a protoplanetary nebula. The cometary shapes of A in the H
and J images and in the 0.79 micron and 1.06 micron HST images suggest that the
core of A is not the central star, but the southern lobe of a bipolar
structure. The position of the central star is probably at or near the position
of component B, where the H-K color has a value of 4.2. If the star is at or
near B, then the components A, C, and D are likely to be located at the inner
boundary of the dust shell.