Using a nonparametric function estimation methodology, we present a
comparative analysis of the WMAP 1-, 3-, 5-, and 7-year data releases for the
CMB angular power spectrum with respect to the following key questions: (a) How
well is the power spectrum determined by the data alone? (b) How well is the
$\Lambda$CDM model supported by a model-independent, data-driven analysis? (c)
What are the realistic uncertainties on peak/dip locations and heights? Our
results show that the height of the power spectrum is well determined by data
alone for multipole l approximately less than 546 (1-year), 667 (3-year), 804
(5-year), and 842 (7-year data). We show that parametric fits based on the
$\Lambda$CDM model are remarkably close to our nonparametric fits in
$l$-regions where data are sufficiently precise. In contrast, the power
spectrum for an H$\Lambda$CDM model gets progressively pushed away from our
nonparametric fit as data quality improves with successive data realizations,
suggesting incompatibility of this particular cosmological model with respect
to the WMAP data sets. We present uncertainties on peak/dip locations and
heights at the 95% ($2 \sigma$) level of confidence, and show how these
uncertainties translate into hyperbolic "bands" on the acoustic scale ($l_A$)
and peak shift ($\phi_m$) parameters. Based on the confidence set for the
7-year data, we argue that the low-l up-turn in the CMB power spectrum cannot
be ruled out at any confidence level in excess of about 10% ($\approx 0.12
\sigma$). Additional outcomes of this work are a numerical formulation for
minimization of a noise-weighted risk function subject to monotonicity
constraints, a prescription for obtaining nonparametric fits that are closer to
cosmological expectations on smoothness, and a method for sampling
cosmologically meaningful power spectrum variations from the confidence set of
a nonparametric fit.