Using STIS on board the HST we have obtained a spectroscopic map of the
bipolar jet from RW Aur. We find signatures of rotation within the first 300 AU
of the jet (1.''5 from RW Aur). Both lobes rotate in the same direction (i.e.
with different helicities). Toroidal velocities are in the range 5 - 30 km/s at
20 (30) AU from the symmetry axis in the blueshifted (redshifted) lobe, in line
with other STIS observations and with theoretical simulations. The sense of
rotation is anti-clockwise looking from the tip of the blue lobe down to the
star. Rotation is more evident in the [OI] and [NII] lines and at the largest
sampled distance from the axis. We derive that the mass ejected in the observed
part of the outflow is accelerated from a region in the disk within about 0.5
(1.6) AU from the star for the blue (red) lobe. We estimate that the angular
momentum transport rate of the jet can be two thirds or more of the estimated
rate transported through the relevant portion of the disk. The magnetic lever
arm (ratio rA/r0 between the Alfv`en and footpoint radii) is between 3.5 and
4.6 (accuracy 20-25%), or, the ejection index $\xi$ = d ln($\dot{M}_acc$) / d r
is in the range 0.025 - 0.046 (same accuracy).These values are in the range
predicted by the models, and suggest that some heating must be provided at the
base of the flow. We also derive the ratio B_phi / B_p of the toroidal and
poloidal components of the magnetic field at the observed location. B_phi / B_p
= 3.8 +- 1.1 at 30 AU from the axis in the red lobe and -8.9 +- 2.7 at 20 AU
from the axis in the blue lobe. The toroidal component is dominant, as
predicted by magnetic collimation models.