We analyze the embedded stellar content in the vicinity of the W3/W4/W5 HII
regions using the FCRAO Outer Galaxy 12CO(J=1-0) Survey, the IRAS Point Source
Catalog, published radio continuum surveys, and new near-infrared and molecular
line observations. Thirty-four IRAS Point Sources are identified that have
far-infrared colors characteristic of embedded star forming regions, and we
have obtained K' mosaics and 13CO(J=1-0) maps for 32 of them. Ten of the IRAS
sources are associated with an OB star and 19 with a stellar cluster, although
three OB stars are not identified with a cluster. Half of the embedded stellar
population identified in the K' images is found in just the 5 richest clusters,
and 61% is contained in IRAS sources associated with an embedded OB star. Thus
rich clusters around OB stars contribute substantially to the stellar
population currently forming in the W3/W4/W5 region. Approximately 39% of the
cluster population is embedded in small clouds with an average mass of ~130 Mo
that are located as far as 100 pc from the W3/W4/W5 cloud complex. We speculate
that these small clouds are fragments of a cloud complex dispersed by previous
episodes of massive star formation. Finally, we find that 4 of the 5 known
embedded massive star forming sites in the W3 molecular cloud are found along
the interface with the W4 HII region despite the fact that most of the
molecular mass is contained in the interior regions of the cloud. These
observations are consistent with the classical notion that the W4 HII region
has triggered massive star formation along the eastern edge of the W3 molecular
cloud.