We have developed a method to identify planetary nebula (PN) candidates in
imaging data of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). This method exploits the
SDSS' five-band sampling of emission lines in PN spectra, which results in a
color signature distinct from that of other sources. Selection criteria based
on this signature can be applied to nearby galaxies in which PNe appear as
point sources. We applied these criteria to the whole area of M31 as scanned by
the SDSS, selecting 167 PN candidates that are located in the outer regions of
M31. The spectra of 80 selected candidates were then observed with the 2.2m
telescope at Calar Alto Observatory. These observations and cross-checks with
literature data show that our method has a selection rate efficiency of about
90%, but the efficiency is different for the different groups of PNe
candidates.
  In the outer regions of M31, PNe trace different well-known morphological
features like the Northern Spur, the NGC205 Loop, the G1 Clump, etc. In
general, the distribution of PNe in the outer region 8<R<20 kpc along the minor
axis shows the "extended disk" - a rotationally supported low surface
brightness structure with an exponential scale length of 3.21+/-0.14 kpc and a
total mass of ~10^10 M_{\sun}, which is equivalent to the mass of M33. We
report the discovery of three PN candidates with projected locations in the
center of Andromeda NE, a very low surface brightness giant stellar structure
in the outer halo of M31. Two of the PNe were spectroscopically confirmed as
genuine PNe. These two PNe are located at projected distances along the major
axis of ~48 Kpc and ~41 Kpc from the center of M31 and are the most distant PNe
in M31 found up to now.