The importance of collective social action in current events is manifest in
the Arab Spring and Occupy movements. Electronic social media have become a
pervasive channel for social interactions, and a basis of collective social
response to information. The study of social media can reveal how individual
actions combine to become the collective dynamics of society. Characterizing
the groups that form spontaneously may reveal both how individuals
self-identify and how they will act together. Here we map the social,
political, and geographical properties of news-sharing communities on Twitter,
a popular micro-blogging platform. We track user-generated messages that
contain links to New York Times online articles and we label users according to
the topic of the links they share, their geographic location, and their
self-descriptive keywords. When users are clustered based on who follows whom
in Twitter, we find social groups separate by whether they are interested in
local (NY), national (US) or global (cosmopolitan) issues. The national group
subdivides into liberal, conservative and other, the latter being a diverse but
mostly business oriented group with sports, arts and other splinters. The
national political groups are based across the US but are distinct from the
national group that is broadly interested in a variety of topics. A person who
is cosmopolitan associates with others who are cosmopolitan, and a US liberal /
conservative associates with others who are US liberal / conservative, creating
separated social groups with those identities. The existence of "citizens" of
local, national and cosmopolitan communities is a basis for dialog and action
at each of these levels of societal organization.