The HANARO ex-core neutron irradiation facility was developed for various
applications in the boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) field, and its
characteristics have been investigated. In order to obtain a sufficient thermal
neutron flux with a low level contamination of fast neutrons and gamma-rays, a
radiation filtering method is adopted. The radiation filter has been designed
by using a silicon single crystal cooled by liquid nitrogen and a bismuth
crystal. The installation of the main components of the irradiation facility
and the irradiation room are finished. Experimental measurements of the neutron
beam characteristics have been performed by using bare and cadmium covered gold
foils and wires. The in-phantom neutron flux distribution was measured for a
flux mapping inside the phantom. The gamma-ray dose was determined by using
TLD-700 thermoluminescence dosimeters. The thermal and fast neutron fluxes and
the gamma-ray dose were calculated by using the MCNP code, and they were
compared with experimental data. The thermal neutron flux and Cd ratio which
can be obtained at this facility are 1.49E9 n/cm2s and 152, respectively. The
maximum neutron flux inside the phantom was measured to be 2.79E9 n/cm2s at a
depth of 3 mm in the phantom. The two-dimensional in-phantom neutron flux
distribution was determined, and the significant neutron irradiation was
observed within 20 mm from the phantom surface. The gamma-ray dose rate for the
free beam condition is expected to be about 80 cGy/hr. These experimental
results are reasonably well supported by the calculated values of the facility
design code. This HANARO thermal neutron facility can be used not only for a
clinical trial but also for various basic irradiation researches of the BNCT
field.