Diffuse radio emission in galaxy clusters, and their connection with cluster
mergers, are still debated. We seek to explore the internal dynamics of the
radio halo cluster Abell 545. This cluster is also peculiar for hosting in its
center a very bright, red, diffuse intracluster light due to an old, stellar
population, so bright to be named as "star pile". Our analysis is based on
redshift data for 110 galaxies. We identify 95 cluster members and analyze the
cluster internal dynamics by combining galaxy velocities and positions. We also
use both photometric and X-ray data. We estimate the cluster redshift,
z=0.1580, a velocity dispersion of 1200 km/s, and ICM temperature kT_X~8 keV.
Our optical and X-ray analyses detect substructures. Optical data reveal three
main galaxy clumps (center, NNW, and NE), and possibly a fourth clump at South.
There is not a dominant galaxy and the four brightest galaxies avoid the
cluster core (>~0.4h distant from the cluster center) and are >~1500 km/s far
from the mean cluster velocity. The analysis of the X-ray surface brightness
distribution provides us evidence of a disturbed dynamical phase. Located in
the star pile region there is the brightest galaxies of the cluster core (CBCG)
and a very compact elliptical galaxy. We show that the star pile has a similar
redshift to that of the CBCG. Both the star pile and the CBCG are at rest in
the cluster rest frame. The emerging picture of Abell 545 is that of a massive,
M(R<1.6 h_70^-1 Mpc)=1.1-1.8x10^15 h_70^-1 Msun, very complex cluster with
merging occurring along two directions. A545 gives another proof in the favor
of the connection between cluster merger and extended, diffuse radio emission.
The star pile, likely due to the process of a brightest galaxy forming in the
cluster core. A545 represents a textbook cluster where to study the
simultaneous formation of a galaxy system and its brightest galaxy.