Recently, Maiolino et al. (2001a, A&A, 365, 28) constructed a sample of
active galactic nuclei for which both the reddening E(B-V) and the column
density N_H to the nucleus could be determined. For most of the galaxies in
their sample, they found that E(B-V)/N_H is substantially smaller than for the
diffuse ISM of our Galaxy. They asserted that either the dust-to-gas ratio is
lower than in the Galaxy or that the grains are so large that they do not
extinct or redden efficiently in the optical. We show that there is no
systematic increase in E(B-V) with N_H for the Maiolino et al. (2001a)
galaxies, which suggests that the X-ray absorption and optical extinction occur
in distinct media.
  Maiolino et al. (2001b, A&A, 365, 37) suggested that the observed lines of
sight for the Maiolino et al. (2001a) galaxies pass through the ``torus'' that
obscures the broad line region and nuclear continuum in Seyfert 2 galaxies and
argued that the torus grains are larger than Galactic grains. There is no
reason to believe that the lines of sight for these galaxies pass through the
torus, since the observed column densities are lower than those typically
observed in Seyfert 2 galaxies. We suggest instead that the X-ray absorption
occurs in material located off the torus and/or accretion disk while the
optical extinction occurs in material located beyond the torus. The X-ray
absorbing material could either be dust-free or could contain large grains that
do not extinct efficently in the optical. There is no conclusive evidence that
the grains in active galactic nuclei are systematically larger than those in
the diffuse ISM of our Galaxy.