Although the astronomy community is witnessing an era of large telescopes,
smaller and medium sized telescopes still maintain their utility being larger
in numbers. In order to obtain better scientific outputs it is necessary to
incorporate modern and advanced technologies to the back-end instruments and to
their interfaces with the telescopes through various control processes. However
often tight financial constraints on the smaller and medium size observatories
limit the scope and utility of these systems. Most of the time for every new
development on the telescope the back-end control systems are required to be
built from scratch leading to high costs and efforts. Therefore a simple, low
cost control system for small and medium size observatory needs to be developed
to minimize the cost and efforts while going for the expansion of the
observatory. Here we report on the development of a modern, multipurpose
instrument control system UNICS (Unified Instrument Control System) to
integrate the controls of various instruments and devices mounted on the
telescope. UNICS consists of an embedded hardware unit called Common Control
Unit (CCU) and Linux based data acquisition and User Interface. The Hardware of
the CCU is built around the Atmel make ATmega 128 micro-controller and is
designed with a back-plane, Master Slave architecture. The Graphical User
Interface (GUI) has been developed based on QT and the back end application
software is based on C/C++. UNICS provides feedback mechanisms which give the
operator a good visibility and a quick-look display of the status and modes of
instruments. UNICS is being used for regular science observations since March
2008 on 2m, f/10 IUCAA Telescope located at Girawali, Pune India.