We present Very Long Baseline Array observations of the radio galaxy 3C120 at
5, 8, 12, and 15 GHz designed to study a peculiar stationary jet feature
(hereafter C80) located ~80 mas from the core, which was previously shown to
display a brightness temperature ~600 times lager than expected at such
distances. The high sensitivity of the images -- obtained between December 2009
and June 2010 -- has revealed that C80 corresponds to the eastern flux density
peak of an arc of emission (hereafter A80), downstream of which extends a large
(~20 mas in size) bubble-like structure that resembles an inverted bow shock.
The linearly polarized emission closely follows that of the total intensity in
A80, with the electric vector position angle distributed nearly perpendicular
to the arc-shaped structure. Despite the stationary nature of C80/A80,
superluminal components with speeds up to ~3 c have been detected downstream
from its position, resembling the behavior observed in the HST-1 emission
complex in M87. The total and polarized emission of the C80/A80 structure, its
lack of motion, and brightness temperature excess are best reproduced by a
model based on synchrotron emission from a conical shock with cone opening
angle \eta=10 degrees, jet viewing angle \theta=16 degrees, a completely
tangled upstream magnetic field, and upstream Lorentz factor \gamma=8.4. The
good agreement between our observations and numerical modeling leads us to
conclude that the peculiar feature associated with C80/A80 corresponds to a
conical recollimation shock in the jet of 3C120 located at a de-projected
distance of ~190 pc downstream from the nucleus.