We derive physical properties of 10 submillimeter galaxies located in the
CANDELS coverage of the GOODS-S field. The galaxies were first identified as
submillimeter sources with the LABOCA bolometer and subsequently targeted for
870um continuum observation with ALMA. The high angular resolution of the ALMA
imaging allows secure counterparts to be identified in the CANDELS multiband
dataset. The CANDELS data provide deep photometric data from UV through
near-infrared wavelengths. Using synthetic spectral energy distributions, we
derive photometric redshifts, stellar masses, extinction, ages, and the star
formation history. The redshift range is z=1.65-4.76, with two of the galaxies
located at z>4. Two SMG counterparts have stellar masses 2-3 orders of
magnitude lower than the rest. The remaining SMG counterparts have stellar
masses around 1x10^11 Msun. The stellar population in the SMGs is typically
older than the expected duration of the submillimeter phase, suggesting that
the star formation history of submillimeter galaxies is more complex than a
single burst. Non-parametric morphology indices suggest that the SMG
counterparts are among the most asymmetric systems compared with galaxies of
the same stellar mass and redshift. The HST images shows that 3 of the SMGs are
associated with on-going mergers. The remaining counterparts are isolated.
Estimating the dust and molecular gas mass from the submm fluxes, and comparing
with our stellar masses shows that the molecular gas mass fraction of SMGs is
~28% and that the final stellar mass is likely to be (1-2)x10^11 Msun.