Aims. We report results of an X-ray study of the supernova remnant (SNR)
G344.7-0.1 and the point-like X-ray source located at the geometrical center of
the SNR radio structure. Methods. The morphology and spectral properties of the
remnant and the central X-ray point-like source were studied using data from
the XMM-Newton and Chandra satellites. Archival radio data and infrared Spitzer
observations at 8 and 24 $\mu$m were used to compare and study its multi-band
properties at different wavelengths. Results. The XMM-Newton and Chandra
observations reveal that the overall X-ray emission of G344.7-0.1 is extended
and correlates very well with regions of bright radio and infrared emission.
The X-ray spectrum is dominated by prominent atomic emission lines. These
characteristics suggest that the X-ray emission originated in a thin thermal
plasma, whose radiation is represented well by a plane-parallel shock plasma
model (PSHOCK). Our study favors the scenario in which G344.7-0.1 is a 6 x 10^3
year old SNR expanding in a medium with a high density gradient and is most
likely encountering a molecular cloud on the western side. In addition, we
report the discovery of a soft point-like X-ray source located at the
geometrical center of the radio SNR structure. The object presents some
characteristics of the so-called compact central objects (CCO). However, its
neutral hydrogen absorption column (N_{H}) is inconsistent with that of the
SNR. Coincident with the position of the source, we found infrared and optical
objects with typical early-K star characteristics. The X-ray source may be a
foreground star or the CCO associated with the SNR. If this latter possibility
were confirmed, the point-like source would be the farthest CCO detected so far
and the eighth member of the new population of isolated and weakly magnetized
neutron stars.