A pair of giant gamma-ray bubbles have been revealed by the {\it Fermi} LAT.
In this paper we investigate their formation mechanism. Observations have
indicated that the activity of the supermassive black hole located at the
Galactic center, Sgr A*, was much stronger than the present time. Specifically,
one possibility is that while Sgr A* was also in the hot accretion regime, the
accretion rate should be $10^3-10^4$ times higher during the past $\sim 10^7$
yr. On the other hand, recent MHD numerical simulations of hot accretion flows
have unambiguously shown the existence of strong winds and obtained their
properties. Based on these knowledge, by performing three-dimensional
hydrodynamical simulations, we show in this paper that the Fermi bubbles could
be inflated by winds launched from the ``past' hot accretion flow in Sgr A*. In
our model, the active phase of Sgr A* is required to last for about 10 million
years and it was quenched no more than 0.2 million years ago. The Central
Molecular Zone (CMZ) is included and it collimates the wind orientation towards
the Galactic poles. Viscosity suppresses the Rayleigh-Taylor and
Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities and results in the smoothness of the bubble
edge. The main observational features of the bubbles can be well explained.
Specifically, the {\it ROSAT} X-ray features are interpreted by the shocked
interstellar medium and the interaction region between winds and CMZ gas. The
thermal pressure and temperature obtained in our model are in good consistency
with the recent {\it Suzaku} observations.