We have started a campaign to identify massive star clusters inside bright
molecular bubbles towards the Galactic Center. The CN15/16/17 molecular complex
is the first example of our study. The region is characterized by the presence
of two young clusters, DB10 and DB11, visible in the NIR, an ultra-compact HII
region identified in the radio, several young stellar objects visible in the
MIR, a bright diffuse nebulosity at 8\mu m coming from PAHs and sub-mm
continuum emission revealing the presence of cold dust. Given its position on
the sky (l=0.58, b=-0.85) and its kinematic distance of ~7.5 kpc, the region
was thought to be a very massive site of star formation in proximity of the
CMZ. The cluster DB11 was estimated to be as massive as 10^4 M_sun. However the
region's properties were known only through photometry and its kinematic
distance was very uncertain given its location at the tangential point. We
aimed at better characterizing the region and assess whether it could be a site
of massive star formation located close to the Galactic Center. We have
obtained NTT/SofI JHKs photometry and long slit K band spectroscopy of the
brightest members. We have additionally collected data in the radio, sub-mm and
mid infrared, resulting in a quite different picture of the region. We have
confirmed the presence of massive early B type stars and have derived a
spectro-photometric distance of ~1.2 kpc, much smaller than the kinematic
distance. Adopting this distance we obtain clusters masses of M(DB10) ~ 170
M_sun and M(DB11) ~ 275 M_sun. This is consistent with the absence of any O
star, confirmed by the excitation/ionization status of the nebula. No HeI
diffuse emission is detected in our spectroscopic observations at 2.113\mu m,
which would be expected if the region was hosting more massive stars. Radio
continuum measurements are also consistent with the region hosting at most
early B stars.