We consider the conditions of peace and violence among ethnic groups, testing
a theory designed to predict the locations of violence and interventions that
can promote peace. Characterizing the model's success in predicting peace
requires examples where peace prevails despite diversity. Switzerland is
recognized as a country of peace, stability and prosperity. This is surprising
because of its linguistic and religious diversity that in other parts of the
world lead to conflict and violence. Here we analyze how peaceful stability is
maintained. Our analysis shows that peace does not depend on integrated
coexistence, but rather on well defined topographical and political boundaries
separating groups. Mountains and lakes are an important part of the boundaries
between sharply defined linguistic areas. Political canton and circle
(sub-canton) boundaries often separate religious groups. Where such boundaries
do not appear to be sufficient, we find that specific aspects of the population
distribution either guarantee sufficient separation or sufficient mixing to
inhibit intergroup violence according to the quantitative theory of conflict.
In exactly one region, a porous mountain range does not adequately separate
linguistic groups and violent conflict has led to the recent creation of the
canton of Jura. Our analysis supports the hypothesis that violence between
groups can be inhibited by physical and political boundaries. A similar
analysis of the area of the former Yugoslavia shows that during widespread
ethnic violence existing political boundaries did not coincide with the
boundaries of distinct groups, but peace prevailed in specific areas where they
did coincide. The success of peace in Switzerland may serve as a model to
resolve conflict in other ethnically diverse countries and regions of the
world.