Chemically inhomogeneous populations are observed in most globular clusters,
but not in open clusters. Cluster mass seems to play a key role in the
existence of multiple populations.
  Studying the chemical homogeneity of the most massive open clusters is
necessary to better understand the mechanism of their formation and determine
the mass limit under which clusters cannot host multiple populations. Here we
studied NGC6705, that is a young and massive open cluster located towards the
inner region of the Milky Way. This cluster is located inside the solar circle.
This makes it an important tracer of the inner disk abundance gradient. This
study makes use of BVI and ri photometry and comparisons with theoretical
isochrones to derive the age of NGC6705. We study the density profile of the
cluster and the mass function to infer the cluster mass. Based on abundances of
the chemical elements distributed in the first internal data release of the
Gaia-ESO Survey, we study elemental ratios and the chemical homogeneity of the
red clump stars. Radial velocities enable us to study the rotation and internal
kinematics of the cluster.
  The estimated ages range from 250 to 316Myr, depending on the adopted stellar
model. Luminosity profiles and mass functions show strong signs of mass
segregation. We derive the mass of the cluster from its luminosity function and
from the kinematics, finding values between 3700 M$_{\odot}$ and 11 000
M$_{\odot}$. After selecting the cluster members from their radial velocities,
we obtain a metallicity of [Fe/H]=0.10$\pm$0.06 based on 21 candidate members.
Moreover, NGC6705 shows no sign of the typical correlations or
anti-correlations between Al, Mg, Si, and Na, that are expected in multiple
populations. This is consistent with our cluster mass estimate, which is lower
than the required mass limit proposed in literature to develop multiple
populations.