We present a new approach to coronal dimming detection using the COronal
DImming Tracker tool (CODIT), which was found to be successful in locating and
tracking multiple dimming regions. This tool, an extension of a previously
developed coronal hole tracking software, allows us to study the prop- erties
and the spatial evolution of dimming regions at high temporal and spatial
cadence from the time of their appearance to their disappearance. We use the
Solar Dynamics Observatory/Atmospheric Imaging Assembly 193 A wavelength
observations and Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager to study dimmings. As a
demonstration of the detection technique we analyzed six recurrences of a
dimming observed near AR 11305 between 2011 September 29 and October 2. The
dimming repeatedly ap- peared and formed in a similar way, first expanding then
shrinking and occasionally stabilizing in the same location until the next
eruption. The dimming areas were studied in conjunction with the corre-
sponding flare magnitudes and coronal mass ejection (CME) masses. These
properties were found to follow a similar trend during the observation period,
which is consistent with the idea that the mag- nitude of the eruption and the
CME mass affect the relative sizes of the consecutive dimmings. We also present
a hypothesis to explain the evolution of the recurrent single dimming through
interchange reconnection. This process would accommodate the relocation of
quasi-open magnetic field lines and hence allow the CME flux rope footpoint
(the dimming) to expand into quiet Sun regions. By relating the properties of
dimmings, flares, and CMEs we improve our understanding of the magnetic field
reconfiguration caused by reconnection.