We investigate the conditions under which small scale energy release events
in the low corona gave rise to strong interplanetary (IP) type III bursts. We
analyze observations of three tiny events, detected by the Nan\c cay Radio
Heliograph (NRH), two of which produced IP type IIIs. We took advantage of the
NRH positioning information and of the high cadence of AIA/SDO data to identify
the associated EUV emissions. We measured positions and time profiles of the
metric and EUV sources. We found that the EUV events that produced IP type IIIs
were located near a coronal hole boundary, while the one that did not was
located in a closed magnetic field region. In all three cases tiny flaring
loops were involved, without any associated mass eruption. In the best observed
case the radio emission at the highest frequency (435 MHz) was displaced by
~55" with respect to the small flaring loop. The metric type III emission shows
a complex structure in space and in time, indicative of multiple electron
beams, despite the low intensity of the events. From the combined analysis of
dynamic spectra and NRH images we derived the electron beam velocity as well as
the height, ambient plasma temperature and density at the level of formation of
the 160 MHz emission. From the analysis of the differential emission measure
derived from the AIA images we found that the first evidence of energy release
was at the footpoints and this was followed by the development of flaring loops
and subsequent cooling. We conclude that even small energy release events can
accelerate enough electrons to give rise to powerful IP type III bursts. The
proximity of the electron acceleration site to open magnetic field lines
facilitates the escape of the electrons into the interplanetary space. The
offset between the site of energy release and the metric type III location
warrants further investigation.