Proton therapy is nowadays becoming a wide spread clinical practice in cancer
therapy and sophisticated treatment planning systems are routinely used to
exploit at best the ballistic properties of charged particles. The information
on the quality of the beams and the range of the protons is a key issue for the
optimization of the treatment. For this purpose, proton radiography can be used
in proton therapy to obtain direct information on the range of the protons, on
the average density of the tissues for treatment planning optimization and to
perform imaging with negligible dose to the patient. We propose an innovative
method based on nuclear emulsion film detectors for proton radiography, a
technique in which images are obtained by measuring the position and the
residual range of protons passing through the patient's body. Nuclear emulsion
films interleaved with tissue equivalent absorbers can be fruitfully used to
reconstruct proton tracks with very high precision. The first prototype of a
nuclear emulsion based detector has been conceived, constructed and tested with
a therapeutic proton beam at PSI. The scanning of the emulsions has been
performed at LHEP in Bern, where a fully automated microscopic scanning
technology has been developed for the OPERA experiment on neutrino
oscillations. After track reconstruction, the first promising experimental
results have been obtained by imaging a simple phantom made of PMMA with a step
of 1 cm. A second phantom with five 5 x 5 mm^2 section aluminum rods located at
different distances and embedded in a PMMA structure has been also imaged.
Further investigations are in progress to improve the resolution and to image
more sophisticated phantoms.