The present paper focuses on the high-mass star-forming region G23.01-0.41.
Methods: Using the VLBA and the EVN arrays, we conducted phase-referenced
observations of the three most powerful maser species in G23.01-0.41: H2O at
22.2 GHz (4 epochs), CH3OH at 6.7 GHz (3 epochs), and OH at 1.665 GHz (1
epoch). In addition, we performed high-resolution (> 0".1), high-sensitivity (<
0.1 mJy) VLA observations of the radio continuum emission from the HMC at 1.3
and 3.6 cm. Results: We have detected H2O, CH3OH, and OH maser emission
clustered within 2000 AU from the center of a flattened HMC, oriented SE-NW,
from which emerges a massive 12CO outflow, elongated NE-SW, extended up to the
pc-scale. Although the three maser species show a clearly different spatial and
velocity distribution and sample distinct environments around the massive YSO,
the spatial symmetry and velocity field of each maser specie can be explained
in terms of expansion from a common center, which possibly denotes the position
of the YSO driving the maser motion. Water masers trace both a fast shock (up
to 50 km/s) closer to the YSO, powered by a wide-angle wind, and a slower (20
km/s) bipolar jet, at the base of the large-scale outflow. Since the compact
free-free emission is found offset from the putative location of the YSO along
a direction consistent with that of the maser jet axis, we interpret the radio
continuum in terms of a thermal jet. The velocity field of methanol masers can
be explained in terms of a composition of slow (4 km/s in amplitude) motions of
radial expansion and rotation about an axis approximately parallel to the maser
jet. Finally, the distribution of line of sight velocities of the hydroxyl
masers suggests that they can trace gas less dense (n(H2) < 10^6 cm^-3) and
more distant from the YSO than that traced by the water and methanol masers,
which is expanding toward the observer. (Abridged)