We report on Chandra observations of a sample of 11 optically luminous
(Mb<-28.5) quasars at z=3.96-4.55 selected from the Palomar Digital Sky Survey
and the Automatic Plate Measuring Facility Survey. These are among the most
luminous z>4 quasars known and hence represent ideal witnesses of the end of
the "dark age ''. Nine quasars are detected by Chandra, with ~2-57 counts in
the observed 0.5-8 keV band. These detections increase the number of X-ray
detected AGN at z>4 to ~90; overall, Chandra has detected ~85% of the
high-redshift quasars observed with snapshot (few kilosecond) observations. PSS
1506+5220, one of the two X-ray undetected quasars, displays a number of
notable features in its rest-frame ultraviolet spectrum, the most prominent
being broad, deep SiIV and CIV absorption lines. The average optical-to-X-ray
spectral index for the present sample (<alpha_ox>=-1.88+/-0.05) is steeper than
that typically found for z>4 quasars but consistent with the expected value
from the known dependence of this spectral index on quasar luminosity.
  We present joint X-ray spectral fitting for a sample of 48 radio-quiet
quasars in the redshift range 3.99-6.28 for which Chandra observations are
available. The X-ray spectrum (~870 counts) is well parameterized by a power
law with Gamma=1.93+0.10/-0.09 in the rest-frame ~2-40 keV band, and a tight
upper limit of N_H~5x10^21 cm^-2 is obtained on any average intrinsic X-ray
absorption. There is no indication of any significant evolution in the X-ray
properties of quasars between redshifts zero and six, suggesting that the
physical processes of accretion onto massive black holes have not changed over
the bulk of cosmic time.