We describe the serendipitous discovery of a radio point source in a 618 MHz
image of the supernova remnant(SNR) G76.9+1.0. The SNR has a bipolar structure
and the point source is located near a faint bridge of emission joining the two
lobes of emission. The point source was also detected in follow-up higher
frequency(1170 MHz) observations. The spectral index for the point source
obtained from the GMRT observations is alpha = -2.1. The steep spectrum, as
well as the location of the point source near the centre of the SNR establish
the fact that it is indeed the pulsar J2022+3842 associated with this SNR.
Consistent with this, subsequent analysis of archival Chandra X-ray data shows
a point source coincident with the radio point source, as well as diffuse
extended X-ray emission surrounding the unresolved source. However, no pulsed
emission was detected despite deep searches at both 610 MHz and 1160 MHz
although pulsed emission has been seen at 2 GHz with the GBT. It appears that
the most likely reason for not detecting the pulsed signal at the GMRT is
temporal broadening: for the estimated DM towards this SNR, the pulse
broadening time could be as large as tens of milliseconds. The diffuse X-ray
emission is elongated along the same direction as the bipolar structure seen in
the radio. We interpret the radio lobes as having been formed from an
equatorial wind. Although direct detection of pulsed signal has not been
possible, we show convincingly that sensitive, high-resolution, radio imaging
at multiple frequencies is a useful method to search for pulsar candidates.