We present results from analytical and numerical studies of a flux tube model
of hybrid mesons. Our numerical results use a Hamiltonian Monte Carlo algorithm
and so improve on previous analytical treatments, which assumed small flux tube
oscillations and an adiabatic separation of quark and flux tube motion. We find
that the small oscillation approximation is inappropriate for typical hadrons
and that the hybrid mass is underestimated by the adiabatic approximation. For
physical parameters in the ``one-bead" flux tube model we estimate the lightest
hybrid masses (${}_\Lambda L = {}_1 P$ states) to be 1.8-1.9~GeV for $u\bar u$
hybrids, 2.1-2.2~GeV for $s\bar s$ and 4.1-4.2~GeV for $c\bar c$. We also
determine masses of conventional $q\bar q$ mesons with $L=0$ to $L=3$ in this
model, and confirm good agreement with experimental $J$-averaged multiplet
masses. Mass estimates are also given for hybrids with higher orbital and
flux-tube excitations. The gap from the lightest hybrid level (${}_1P$) to the
first hybrid orbital excitation (${}_1D$) is predicted to be $\approx 0.4$~GeV
for light quarks $(q=u,d)$ and $\approx 0.3$~GeV for $q=c$. Both ${}_1P$ and
${}_1D$ hybrid multiplets contain the exotics $1^{-+}$ and $2^{+-}$; in
addition the ${}_1P$ has a $0^{+-}$ and the ${}_1D$ contains a $3^{-+}$. Hybrid
mesons with doubly-excited flux tubes are also considered. The implications of
our results for spectroscopy are discussed, with emphasis on charmonium
hybrids, which may be accessible at facilities such as BEPC, KEK, a Tau-Charm
Factory, and in $\psi$ production at hadron colliders.