We examine masses of hosting haloes of two photometrically-selected high-z
galaxy samples: the old passively-evolving galaxies (OPEGs) and Lyman Break
Galaxies (LBGs) both taken from the Subaru/XMM-Newton Deep Survey (SXDS). The
large survey area of the SXDS (1sq deg) allows us to measure the angular
two-point correlation functions to a wide separation of >10 arcmin with a good
statistical quality. We utilize the halo model prescription for estimating
characteristic masses of hosting haloes from the measured large-scale
clustering amplitudes. It is found that the hosting halo mass positively
correlates with the luminosity of galaxies. Then, adopting the extended
Press-Schechter model (EPS), we compute the predictions for the mass evolution
of the hosting haloes in the framework of the cold dark matter (CDM) cosmology
in order to make an evolutionary link between the two galaxy samples at
different redshifts and to identify their present-day descendants by letting
their haloes evolve forward in time. It is found that, in the view of the mass
evolution of hosting haloes in the CDM model, bright LBGs are consistent with
being the progenitor of the OPEGs, whereas it is less likely that the LBG
population, as a whole, have evolved into the OPEG population. It is also found
that the present-day descendants of both the bright LBGs and OPEGs are likely
to be located in massive systems such as groups of galaxies or clusters of
galaxies. Finally, we estimate the hosting halo mass of local early-type galaxy
samples from the 2dF and SDSS based on the halo model and it turns out that
their expected characteristic mass of hosting haloes is in good agreement with
the EPS predictions for the descendant's mass of both the bright LBGs and
OPEGs.