We selected a sample of 437 BL Lac objects, taken from the RomaBZCat
catalogue, for which spectroscopic information and SDSS photometry is
available. We propose a new classification of BL Lacs in which the sources'
type is not defined only on the basis of the peak frequency of the synchrotron
component in their Spectral Energy Distribution (types L and H), but also on
the relevance of this component with respect to the brightness of the host
galaxy (types N and G, for nuclear or galaxy dominated sources). We found that
the SDSS colour index u-r=1.4 is a good separator between these two types. We
used multiband colour-colour plots to study the properties of the BL Lac
classes and found that in the X-ray to radio flux ratio vs u-r plot most of the
N (blue) sources are located in a rather narrow strip, while the G-sources
(red) are spread in a large area, and most of them are located in galaxy
clusters or interacting systems, suggesting that their X-ray emission is not
from a genuine BL Lac nucleus but it is related to their environment. Of the
about 135 sources detected in the gamma-rays by Fermi-GST, nearly all belong to
the N-type, indicating that only this type of sources should be considered as
genuine BL Lac nuclei. The J-H, H-K plot of sources detected in the 2MASS
catalogue is consistent with that of the "bona fide" BL Lac objects,
independently of their N or G classification from the optical indices,
indicating the existence in G-type sources of a K-band excess possibly due to a
steep, low frequency peaked emission which deserves further investigations. We
propose to use these colour plots as a further tool for searching candidate
counterparts of newly discovered high-energy sources.