We present the results of a 22 cm radio survey carried out with the A3558
complex, a chain formed by the merging ACO clusters A3556-A3558-A3562 and
thetwo groups SC1327-312 and SC1323-313, located in the central region of the
complex, a chain formed by the merging ACO clusters A3556-A3558-A3562 and the
two groups SC1327-312 and SC1323-313, located in the central region of the
Shapley Concentration. The purpose of our survey is to study the effects of
cluster mergers on the statistical properties of radio galaxies and to
investigate the connection between mergers and the presence of radio halos and
relic sources. We found that the radio source counts in the A3558 complex are
consistent with the background source counts. Furthermore, we found that no
correlation exists between the local density and the radio source power, and
that steep spectrum radio galaxies are not segregated in denser optical
regions. The radio luminosity function for elliptical and S0 galaxies is
significantly lower than that for cluster type galaxies and for those not
selected to be in clusters at radio powers logP(1.4) > 22.5, implying that the
probability of a galaxy becoming a radio source above this power limit is lower
in the Shapley Concentration compared with any other environment. The detection
of a head-tail source in the centre of A3562, coupled with careful inspection
of the 20 cm NRAO VLA Sky Survey (NVSS) and of 36 cm MOST observations, allowed
us to spot two extended sources in the region between A3562 and SC1329-313,
i.e. a candidate radio halo at the centre of A3562, and low brightness extended
emission around a 14.96 magnitude Shapley galaxy.