We present polarimetric observations of 14 pre-main-sequence (PMS) binaries
located in the Taurus, Auriga, and Orion star forming regions. The majority of
the average observed polarizations are below 0.5%, and none are above 0.9%.
After removal of estimates of the interstellar polarization, about half the
binaries have an intrinsic polarization above 0.5%, even though most of them do
not present other evidences for the presence of circumstellar dust. Various
tests reveal that 77% of the PMS binaries have or possibly have a variable
polarization. LkCa3, Par1540, and Par2494 present detectable periodic and
phase-locked variations. The periodic polarimetric variations are noisier and
of a lesser amplitude (~0.1%) than for other types of binaries, such as hot
stars. This could be due to stochastic events that produce deviations in the
average polarization, a non-favorable geometry (circumbinary envelope), or the
nature of the scatterers (dust grains are less efficient polarizers than
electrons). Par1540 is a Weak-line TTauri Star, but nonetheless has enough dust
in its environment to produce detectable levels of polarization and variations.
A fourth interesting case is W134, which displays rapid changes in polarization
that could be due to eclipses. We compare the observations with some of our
numerical simulations, and also show that an analysis of the periodic
polarimetric variations with the Brown, McLean, & Emslie (BME) formalism to
find the orbital inclination is for the moment premature: non-periodic events
introduce stochastic noise that partially masks the periodic low-amplitude
variations and prevents the BME formalism from finding a reasonable estimate of
the orbital inclination.