We explore the archetype problem of an escape dynamics occurring in a
symmetric double well potential when the Brownian particle is driven by {\it
white L\'evy noise} in a dynamical regime where inertial effects can safely be
neglected. The behavior of escaping trajectories from one well to another is
investigated by pointing to the special character that underpins the
noise-induced discontinuity which is caused by the generalized Brownian paths
that jump beyond the barrier location without actually hitting it. This fact
implies that the boundary conditions for the mean first passage time (MFPT) are
no longer determined by the well-known local boundary conditions that
characterize the case with normal diffusion. By numerically implementing
properly the set up boundary conditions, we investigate the survival
probability and the average escape time as a function of the corresponding
L\'evy white noise parameters. Depending on the value of the skewness $\beta$
of the L\'evy noise, the escape can either become enhanced or suppressed: a
negative asymmetry $\beta$ causes typically a decrease for the escape rate
while the rate itself depicts a non-monotonic behavior as a function of the
stability index $\alpha$ which characterizes the jump length distribution of
L\'evy noise, with a marked discontinuity occurring at $\alpha=1$. We find that
the typical factor of ``two'' that characterizes for normal diffusion the ratio
between the MFPT for well-bottom-to-well-bottom and well-bottom-to-barrier-top
no longer holds true. For sufficiently high barriers the survival probabilities
assume an exponential behavior. Distinct non-exponential deviations occur,
however, for low barrier heights.