Introduction of Smart phones redefined the usage of mobile phones in the
communication world. Smart phones are equipped with various sophisticated
features such as Wi-Fi, GPS navigation, high resolution camera, touch screen
with broadband access which helps the mobile phone users to keep in touch with
the modern world. Many of these features are primarily integrated with the
mobile operating system which is out of reach to public, by which the users
can't manipulate those features. Google came up with an innovative operation
system termed as ANDROID, which is open system architecture with customizable
third party development and debugging environment which helps the user's to
manipulate the features and to create their own customizable applications. In
this paper, 'Emergency Based Remote Collateral Tracking System' application
using Google's Android Mobile Platform is addressed. Emergency is divided into
three categories: heart beat based emergency, security threats like personal
safety and road accidents. This application is targeted to a person who is
driving a vehicle. Heart rate monitoring device is integrated with our
application to sense the heart beat of a person driving the vehicle and if
there is any abnormalities in the heart beat, then our application performs a
dual role. One in which, application uses a GPS to track the location
information of the user and send those location information as a message via
SMS, email and post it on Facebook wall Simultaneously, an emergency signal is
sent to Arduino Microcontroller.This application is written in JAVA programming
language which runs on Eclipse Integrated Development Kit.