We present photoionization models of the optical and IR coronal line spectrum
in NGC1068 and the Circinus galaxy. The line fluxes have been calculated using
(a) a non-thermal (nuclear) continuum source and (b) the non-thermal continuum
plus a UV bump due to a stellar cluster. We take into account the effect of
attenuation of these continua by gas with column density $10^{22} cm^{-2}$
located between the nucleus and the coronal line region. The calculated coronal
line ratios are in a good agreement with those observed in NGC1068 for a model
in which about 40% of the line emission comes from gas illuminated by
unattenuated, non-thermal continuum, and about 60% from gas illuminated by
attenuated, non-thermal continuum. The electron density of the coronal line
emitting gas in NGC1068 is found to be $10^4 cm^{-3}$. In the Circinus galaxy
the coronal line emission comes from gas with electron density $10^3 cm^{-3}$
illuminated entirely by attenuated, non-thermal continuum. The derived
ionization parameters for both coronal line regions are very similar, but the
different densities imply a higher ionizing photon flux in NGC1068, consistent
with the higher observed excitation state of the line emitting gas in that
galaxy. A possible geometry of the coronal line region of both galaxies is
discussed, in which the distribution of the attenuating gas may be strongly
affected by the relative strength of the nuclear radio-jet. The stronger
radio-jet in NGC1068 may have cleared a channel through the NLR allowing some
unattenuated nuclear continuum to illuminate part of the coronal line region.