We present a study on the properties of electromagnetic plasma waves in the
region upstream of the Martian bow shock, detected by the magnetometer and
electron reflectometer (MAG / ER) onboard the Mars Global Surveyor (MGS)
spacecraft during the period known as Science Phasing Orbits (SPO). The
frequency of these waves, measured in the MGS reference frame (SC), is close to
the local proton cyclotron frequency. Minimum variance analysis (MVA) shows
that these 'proton cyclotron frequency' waves (PCWs) are characterized - in the
SC frame - by a left-hand, elliptical polarization and propagate almost
parallel to the background magnetic field. They also have a small degree of
compressibility and an amplitude that decreases with the increase of the
interplanetary magnetic field (IMF) cone angle and radial distance from the
planet. The latter result supports the idea that the source of these waves is
Mars. In addition, we find that these waves are not associated with the
foreshock . Empirical evidence and theoretical approaches suggest that most of
these observations correspond to the ion-ion right hand (RH) mode originating
from the pick-up of ionized exospheric hydrogen. The left-hand (LH) mode might
be present in cases where the IMF cone angle is high. PCWs occur in 62% of the
time during SPO1 subphase, whereas occurrence drops to 8% during SPO2. Also,
SPO1 PCWs preserve their characteristics for longer time periods and have
greater degree of polarization and coherence than those in SPO2. We discuss
these results in the context of possible changes in the pick-up conditions from
SPO1 to SPO2, or steady, spatial inhomogeneities in the wave distribution. The
lack of influence from the Solar Wind's convective electric field upon the
location of PCWs indicates that there is no clear relation between the spatial
distribution of PCWs and that of pick-up ions.