The soft X-ray emission from high density plasma in CTTS is associated with
the accretion process. It is still unclear whether this high density cool
plasma is heated in the accretion shock, or if it is coronal plasma
fed/modified by the accretion process. We conducted a coordinated
quasi-simultaneous optical and X-ray observing campaign of the CTTS V2129 Oph
(Chandra/HETGS data to constrain the X-ray emitting plasma components, and
optical observations to constrain the characteristics of accretion and magnetic
field). We analyze a 200 ks Chandra/HETGS observation of V2129 Oph, subdivided
into two 100 ks segments, corresponding to two different phases within one
stellar rotation. The X-ray emitting plasma covers a wide range of
temperatures: 2-34 MK. The cool plasma component of V2129 Oph varies between
the two segments of the Chandra observation: high density plasma (log Ne ~
12.1) with high EM at ~ 3-4 MK is present during the 1st segment; during the
2nd segment this plasma component has lower EM and lower density (log Ne <
11.5), although the statistical significance of these differences is marginal.
Hotter plasma components, T > 10 MK, show variability on short time scales (~
10 ks), typical of coronal plasma. A clear flare, detected in the 1st segment,
could be located in a large coronal loop (> 3 Rstar). Our observation provides
further confirmation that the dense cool plasma at a few MK in CTTS is material
heated in the accretion shock. The variability of this cool plasma component on
V2129 Oph may be explained in terms of X-rays emitted in the accretion shock
and seen with different viewing angles at the two rotational phases probed by
our observation. During the 1st time interval direct view of the shock region
is possible, while, during the 2nd, the accretion funnel itself intersects the
line of sight to the shock region, preventing us from observing
accretion-driven X-rays.