A gas giant planet has previously been directly seen orbiting at 8-10 AU
within the debris disk of the ~12 Myr old star {\beta} Pictoris. The {\beta}
Pictoris system offers the rare opportunity to study the physical and
atmospheric properties of an exoplanet placed on a wide orbit and to establish
its formation scenario. We obtained J (1.265 {\mu}m), H (1.66 {\mu}m), and M'
(4.78 {\mu}m) band angular differential imaging of the system between 2011 and
2012. We detect the planetary companion in our four-epoch observations. We
estimate J = 14.0 +- 0.3, H = 13.5 +- 0.2, and M' = 11.0 +- 0.3 mag. Our new
astrometry consolidates previous semi-major axis (sma=8-10 AU) and excentricity
(e <= 0.15) estimates of the planet. These constraints, and those derived from
radial velocities of the star provides independent upper limits on the mass of
{\beta} Pictoris b of 12 and 15.5 MJup for semi-major axis of 9 and 10 AU. The
location of {\beta} Pictoris b in color-magnitude diagrams suggests it has
spectroscopic properties similar to L0-L4 dwarfs. This enables to derive
Log10(L/Lsun) = -3.87 +- 0.08 for the companion. The analysis with 7
PHOENIX-based atmospheric models reveals the planet has a dusty atmosphere with
Teff = 1700 +- 100 K and log g = 4.0+- 0.5. "Hot-start" evolutionary models
give a new mass of 10+3-2 MJup from Teff and 9+3-2 MJup from luminosity.
Predictions of "cold-start" models are inconsistent with independent
constraints on the planet mass. "Warm-start" models constrain the mass to M >=
6MJup and the initial entropies to values (Sinit >= 9.3Kb/baryon), intermediate
between those considered for cold/hot-start models, but likely closer to those
of hot-start models.