We discuss different methods of calculation of the screened Coulomb
interaction $U$ in transition metals and compare the constraint local-density
approximation (LDA) with the GW approach. We clarify that they offer
complementary methods of treating the screening and should serve for different
purposes. In the GW method, the renormalization of bare on-site Coulomb
interactions between 3d electrons occurs mainly through the screening by the
same 3d electrons, treated in the random phase approximation (RPA). The basic
difference of the constraint-LDA method is that it deals with the neutral
processes, where the Coulomb interactions are additionally screened by the
``excited'' electron, since it continues to stay in the system. This is the
main channel of screening by the itinerant ($4sp$) electrons, which is
especially strong in the case of transition metals and missing in the GW
approach, although the details of this screening may be affected by additional
approximations, which typically supplement these two methods. The major
drawback of the conventional constraint-LDA method is that it does not allow to
treat the energy-dependence of $U$. We propose a promising approximation based
on the combination of these two methods. First, we take into account the
screening of Coulomb interactions in the 3d-electron-line bands located near
the Fermi level by the states from the subspace being orthogonal to these
bands, using the constraint-LDA methods. The obtained interactions are further
renormalized within the bands near the Fermi level in RPA. This allows the
energy-dependent screening by electrons near the Fermi level including the same
3d electrons.