We describe a powerful signal processing method, the continuous wavelet
transform, and use it to analyze radial structure in Cassini ISS images of
Saturn's rings. Wavelet analysis locally separates signal components in
frequency space, causing many structures to become evident that are difficult
to observe with the naked eye. Density waves, generated at resonances with
saturnian satellites orbiting outside (or within) the rings, are particularly
amenable to such analysis. We identify a number of previously unobserved weak
waves, and demonstrate the wavelet transform's ability to isolate multiple
waves superimposed on top of one another. We also present two wave-like
structures that we are unable to conclusively identify.
  In a multi-step semi-automated process, we recover four parameters from
clearly observed weak spiral density waves: the local ring surface density, the
local ring viscosity, the precise resonance location (useful for pointing
images, and potentially for refining saturnian astrometry), and the wave
amplitude (potentially providing new constraints upon the masses of the
perturbing moons). Our derived surface densities have less scatter than
previous measurements that were derived from stronger non-linear waves, and
suggest a gentle linear increase in surface density from the inner to the mid-A
Ring. We show that ring viscosity consistently increases from the Cassini
Division outward to the Encke Gap. Meaningful upper limits on ring thickness
can be placed on the Cassini Division (3.0 m at r~118,800 km, 4.5 m at
r~120,700 km) and the inner A Ring (10 to 15 m for r<127,000 km).