Indirect dark matter searches with ground-based gamma-ray observatories
provide an alternative for identifying the particle nature of dark matter that
is complementary to that of direct search or accelerator production
experiments. We present the results of observations of the dwarf spheroidal
galaxies Draco, Ursa Minor, Bootes 1, and Willman 1 conducted by VERITAS. These
galaxies are nearby dark matter dominated objects located at a typical distance
of several tens of kiloparsecs for which there are good measurements of the
dark matter density profile from stellar velocity measurements. Since the
conventional astrophysical background of very high energy gamma rays from these
objects appears to be negligible, they are good targets to search for the
secondary gamma-ray photons produced by interacting or decaying dark matter
particles. No significant gamma-ray flux above 200 GeV was detected from these
four dwarf galaxies for a typical exposure of ~20 hours. The 95% confidence
upper limits on the integral gamma-ray flux are in the range 0.4-2.2x10^-12
photons cm^-2s^-1. We interpret this limiting flux in the context of pair
annihilation of weakly interacting massive particles and derive constraints on
the thermally averaged product of the total self-annihilation cross section and
the relative velocity of the WIMPs. The limits are obtained under conservative
assumptions regarding the dark matter distribution in dwarf galaxies and are
approximately three orders of magnitude above the generic theoretical
prediction for WIMPs in the minimal supersymmetric standard model framework.
However significant uncertainty exists in the dark matter distribution as well
as the neutralino cross sections which under favorable assumptions could
further lower the limits.