In this article, we present results based on high-density, high-precision
Wide-Angle Search for Planets (WASP) light curves supplemented with
lower-precision photometry from the All-Sky Automated Survey (ASAS) for 268 RR
Lyrae stars (176 regular, 92 Blazhko). Light curves were Fourier-decomposed and
coefficients from WASP were transformed to the ASAS standard using 24 common
stars. Coefficients were then compared with similar data from Galactic globular
clusters, the Galactic bulge and the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds (LMC and
SMC). Using Fourier coefficients, we also calculated physical parameters via
standard equations from the literature. We confirmed the results of previous
contributors, including lower amplitudes and longer rise times for Blazhko stars. It
was found that in the $R_{31}$ vs. $R_{21}$ plot the location of a star depends
mainly on its metallicity and that Blazhko stars prefer a different location
than modulation-free stars. Field and globular-cluster RR Lyrae variables have
a different $\phi_{21}$ and $\phi_{31}$ than stars in the LMC, SMC and in
Galactic bulge. Although there are some weak indications that Blazhko stars
could prefer a slightly lower metallicity and shorter periods, no convincing
proof was found. The most interesting highlight is the identification of a very
recently proposed new group of metal-rich RR Lyrae type stars. These
low-luminous, metal-strong variables, which comprise both Blazhko and regular
stars, have shorter periods and about a 180 K higher temperature at constant
$(B-V)_{0}$ than the rest of the stars in the sample.