A unified view of sparse signal processing is presented in tutorial form by
bringing together various fields. For each of these fields, various algorithms
and techniques, which have been developed to leverage sparsity, are described
succinctly. The common benefits of significant reduction in sampling rate and
processing manipulations are revealed.
  The key applications of sparse signal processing are sampling, coding,
spectral estimation, array processing, component analysis, and multipath
channel estimation. In terms of reconstruction algorithms, linkages are made
with random sampling, compressed sensing and rate of innovation. The redundancy
introduced by channel coding in finite/real Galois fields is then related to
sampling with similar reconstruction algorithms. The methods of Prony,
Pisarenko, and MUSIC are next discussed for sparse frequency domain
representations. Specifically, the relations of the approach of Prony to an
annihilating filter and Error Locator Polynomials in coding are emphasized; the
Pisarenko and MUSIC methods are further improvements of the Prony method. Such
spectral estimation methods is then related to multi-source location and DOA
estimation in array processing. The notions of sparse array beamforming and
sparse sensor networks are also introduced. Sparsity in unobservable source
signals is also shown to facilitate source separation in SCA; the algorithms
developed in this area are also widely used in compressed sensing. Finally, the
multipath channel estimation problem is shown to have a sparse formulation;
algorithms similar to sampling and coding are used to estimate OFDM channels.