In the first paper of this series, we presented a detailed high-resolution
spectroscopic study of CPD - 41degr7742, deriving for the first time an orbital
solution for both components of the system. In this second paper, we focus on
the analysis of the optical light curve and on recent XMM-Newton X-ray
observations. In the optical, the system presents two eclipses, yielding an
inclination i ~ 77degr. Combining the constraints from the photometry with the
results of our previous work, we derive the absolute parameters of the system.
We confirm that the two components of CPD - 41degr7742 are main sequence stars
(O9 V + B1-1.5 V) with masses (M_1 ~ 18 Msol and M_2 ~ 10 Msol) and respective
radii (R_1 ~ 7.5 Rsol and R_2 ~ 5.4 Rsol) close to the typical values expected
for such stars. We also report an unprecedented set of X-ray observations that
almost uniformly cover the 2.44-day orbital cycle. The X-ray emission from CPD
- 41degr7742 is well described by a two-temperature thermal plasma model with
energies close to 0.6 and 1.0 keV, thus slightly harder than typical early-type
emission. The X-ray light curve shows clear signs of variability. The emission
level is higher when the primary is in front of the secondary. During the high
emission state, the system shows a drop of its X-ray emission that almost
exactly matches the optical eclipse. We interpret the main features of the
X-ray light curve as the signature of a wind-photosphere interaction, in which
the overwhelming primary O9 star wind crashes into the secondary surface.
Alternatively the light curve could result from a wind-wind interaction zone
located near the secondary star surface. As a support to our interpretation, we
provide a phenomenological geometric model that qualitatively reproduces the
observed modulations of the X-ray emission.