Presence of recurrent and statistically significant unstable periodic orbits
(UPOs) in time series obtained from biological systems are now routinely used
as evidence for low dimensional chaos . Extracting accurate dynamical
information from the detected UPO trajectories are vital for successful control
strategies that either aim to stabilize the system near the fixed point or
steer the system away from the periodic orbits. A hybrid UPO detection method
from return maps that combines topological recurrence criterion, matrix fit
algorithm and stringent criterion for fixed point location gives accurate and
statistically significant UPOs even in the presence of significant noise.
Geometry of the return map, frequency of UPOs visiting the same trajectory,
length of the data set, strength of the noise and degree of nonstationarity
affect the efficacy of the proposed method. Results suggest that establishing
determinism from unambiguous UPO detection is often possible in short data sets
with significant noise, but derived dynamical properties are rarely accurate
and adequate for controlling the dynamics around these UPOs. A repeat chaos
control experiment on epileptic hippocampal slices through more stringent
control strategy and adaptive UPO tracking is reinterpreted in this context
through simulation of similar control experiments on an analogous but
stochastic computer model of epileptic brain slices. Reproduction of equivalent
results suggests that far more stringent criteria are needed for linking
apparent success of control in such experiments with possible determinism in
the underlying dynamics.