Binary clusters account for more than 10 % of the cluster population in the
Magellanic Clouds. Statistically fewer than 50 % of the found pairs are
expected to be chance superpositions. We estimated the cluster encounter rate
and suggest that tidal capture is an unlikely formation scenario for the
formation of binary clusters. Thus, most true binary clusters can be expected
to have formed together. Here we present a study of three binary cluster
candidates which are located in the bar of the LMC. NGC 1971 & NGC 1972 are
situated in the association LH 59 in the eastern part of the bar. A third star
cluster, NGC 1969, is close enough to this pair that all three objects may
constitute a triple system. We present the first age determination that is
based on CMDs for these star clusters. Our findings suggest that all three
clusters are young (40-70 Myr) and may have been formed in the same GMC. It
cannot clearly decided whether the clusters are physically interacting or not.
NGC 1894 & SL 341 are located at the south-western rim of the LMC bar. This
pair is studied in detail for the first time: The isopleths of both clusters
reveal an elliptical shape. Whether this might be interpreted as a sign of
interaction or is a peculiarity which is shared with a large amount of LMC star
clusters which show higher ellipticities than their counterparts in the Milky
Way remains unclear. From our age determination we find that both clusters are
coeval with an age of 55+/-5 Myr. This makes a formation from the same GMC a
likely scenario. SL 385 & SL 387 are a close pair in the western part of the
LMC bar. We derived ages of 170+/-30 Myr for SL 385 and >=250 Myr for SL 387.
The large age difference makes it unlikely that these two clusters formed in
the same GMC.