Building on ideas from online convex optimization, we propose a general
framework for the design of efficient securities markets over very large
outcome spaces. The challenge here is computational. In a complete market, in
which one security is offered for each outcome, the market institution can not
efficiently keep track of the transaction history or calculate security prices
when the outcome space is large. The natural solution is to restrict the space
of securities to be much smaller than the outcome space in such a way that
securities can be priced efficiently. Recent research has focused on searching
for spaces of securities that can be priced efficiently by existing mechanisms
designed for complete markets. While there have been some successes, much of
this research has led to hardness results. In this paper, we take a drastically
different approach. We start with an arbitrary space of securities with bounded
payoff, and establish a framework to design markets tailored to this space. We
prove that any market satisfying a set of intuitive conditions must price
securities via a convex potential function and that the space of reachable
prices must be precisely the convex hull of the security payoffs. We then show
how the convex potential function can be defined in terms of an optimization
over the convex hull of the security payoffs. The optimal solution to the
optimization problem gives the security prices. Using this framework, we
provide an efficient market for predicting the landing location of an object on
a sphere. In addition, we show that we can relax our "no-arbitrage" condition
to design a new efficient market maker for pair betting, which is known to be
#P-hard to price using existing mechanisms. This relaxation also allows the
market maker to charge transaction fees so that the depth of the market can be
dynamically increased as the number of trades increases.