We develop and test a methodology to infer paleostress from the morphology of
stylolites within borehole cores. This non-destructive method is based on the
analysis of the stylolite trace along the outer cylindrical surface of the
cores. It relies on an automatic digitization of high-resolution photographs
and on the spatial Fourier spectrum analysis of the stylolite traces. We test
and show, on both synthetic and natural examples, that the information from
this outer cylindrical surface is equivalent to the one obtained from the
destructive planar sections traditionally used. The assessment of paleostress
from the stylolite morphology analysis is made using a recent theoretical
model, which links the morphological properties to the physical processes
acting during stylolite evolution. This model shows that two scaling regimes
are to be expected for the stylolite height power spectrum, separated by a
cross-over length that depends on the magnitude of the paleostress during
formation. We develop a non linear fit method to automatically extract the
cross-over lengths from the digitized stylolite profiles. Results on cores from
boreholes drilled in the surroundings of the Andra Underground Research
Laboratory located at Bure, France, show that different groups of sedimentary
stylolites can be distinguished, and correspond to different estimated vertical
paleostress values. For the Oxfordian formation, one group of stylolites
indicate a paleostress of around 10 MPa, while another group yields 15 MPa. For
the Dogger formation, two stylolites indicate a paleostress of around 10 MPa,
while others appear to have stopped growing at paleostresses between 30 and 22
MPa, starting at an erosion phase that initiated in the late Cretaceous and
continues today. This method has a high potential for further applications on
reservoirs or other geological contexts where stylolites are present.