ChIP-seq, which combines chromatin immunoprecipitation with massively
parallel short-read sequencing, can profile in vivo genome-wide transcription
factor-DNA association with higher sensitivity, specificity and spatial
resolution than ChIP-chip. While it presents new opportunities for research,
ChIP-seq poses new challenges for statistical analysis that derive from the
complexity of the biological systems characterized and the variability and
biases in its digital sequence data. We propose a method called PICS
(Probabilistic Inference for ChIP-seq) for extracting information from ChIP-seq
aligned-read data in order to identify regions bound by transcription factors.
PICS identifies enriched regions by modeling local concentrations of
directional reads, and uses DNA fragment length prior information to
discriminate closely adjacent binding events via a Bayesian hierarchical
t-mixture model. Its per-event fragment length estimates also allow it to
remove from analysis regions that have atypical lengths. PICS uses
pre-calculated, whole-genome read mappability profiles and a truncated
t-distribution to adjust binding event models for reads that are missing due to
local genome repetitiveness. It estimates uncertainties in model parameters
that can be used to define confidence regions on binding event locations and to
filter estimates. Finally, PICS calculates a per-event enrichment score
relative to a control sample, and can use a control sample to estimate a false
discovery rate. We compared PICS to the alternative methods MACS, QuEST, and
CisGenome, using published GABP and FOXA1 data sets from human cell lines, and
found that PICS' predicted binding sites were more consistent with
computationally predicted binding motifs.