By combining the 2-degree Field Galaxy Redshift Survey with the NRAO VLA Sky
Survey at 1.4 GHz, the environments of radio loud AGN in the nearby Universe
are investigated using both local projected galaxy densities and a
friends-of-friends group finding algorithm. Radio-loud AGN are preferentially
located in galaxy groups and poor-to-moderate richness galaxy clusters. The AGN
fraction appears to depend more strongly on the large-scale environment (group,
cluster, etc) in which a galaxy is located than on its more local environment,
except at the lowest galaxy surface densities where practically no radio-loud
AGN are found. The ratio of absorption-line to emission-line AGN changes
dramatically with environment, with essentially all radio-loud AGN in rich
environments showing no emission lines. This result could be connected with the
lack of cool gas in cluster galaxies, and may have important consequences for
analyses of optically-selected AGN, which are invariably selected on emission
line properties. The local galaxy surface density of the absorption-line AGN is
strongly correlated with radio luminosity, implying that the radio luminosities
may be significantly boosted in dense environments due to confinement by the
hot intracluster gas.
  The environments of a radio-selected sample of star forming galaxies are also
investigated to provide an independent test of optical studies. In line with
those studies, the fraction of star forming galaxies is found to decrease
strongly with increasing local galaxy surface density; this correlation extends
across the whole range of galaxy surface densities, with no evidence for the
density threshold found in some optical studies.