We present new deep $VI$ ground-based photometry of the Local Group dwarf
galaxy Phoenix. Our results confirm that this galaxy is mainly dominated by red
stars, with some blue plume stars indicating recent (100 Myr old) star
formation in the central part of the galaxy. We have performed an analysis of
the structural parameters of Phoenix based on an ESO/SRC scanned plate, in
order to search for differentiated component. The results were then used to
obtain the color-magnitude diagrams for three different regions of Phoenix in
order to study the variation of the properties of its stellar population. The
young population located in the central component of Phoenix shows a clear
asymmetry in its distribution, that could indicate a propagation of star
formation across the central component. The HI cloud found at 6 arcmin
Southwest by Young & Lo (1997) could have been involved in this process.
  We also find the presence of a substantial intermediate-age population in the
central region of Phoenix that would be less abundant or absent in its outer
regions. This result is also consistent with the gradient found in the number
of horizontal branch stars, whose frequency relative to red giant branch stars
increases towards the outer part of the galaxy. These results, together with
those of our morphological study, suggest the existence of an old, metal-poor
population with a spheroidal distribution surrounding the younger inner
component of Phoenix. This two-component structure may resemble the halo-disk
structure observed in spirals, although more data, in particular on kinematics,
are necessary to confirm this.