Method of multiple internal reflections (method MIR) in description of
$\alpha$-decay of nucleus in the spherically symmetric approximation is
presented in paper. In approach MIR the formalism of calculation of amplitudes
of wave function, described moving of $\alpha$-particle from the internal
region outside with its tunneling through a realistic radial $\alpha$-nucleus
barrier of arbitrary shape, has been constructed at first time. The method MIR
gives convergent values for the amplitudes of transmission and reflection,
coefficients of penetrability and reflection, obtained in description of
leaving of the $\alpha$-particle relatively a potential with barrier in form of
a number of rectangular steps (multi-steps potential), with tending this
potential to the realistic $\alpha$-nucleus one, and limit values of the
amplitudes and coefficients are considered as exact concerning the realistic
$\alpha$-nucleus potential (without application of WKB approximation). In
approach MIR a dependence of the penetrability coefficient and half-live on the
location of the starting point, from where $\alpha$-particle begins to move
outside, is opened. From here, we define a radial coordinate of the most
probable formation of the $\alpha$-particle inside nucleus before its
$\alpha$-decay as such starting point, at moving of the $\alpha$-particle from
which outside the half-live, calculated by approach MIR, is maximally closed to
its experimental value. For isotopes ${\rm Po}$ with different mass number $A$
we have obtained essentially closer values for half-live, calculated by such
approach, to their experimental values in a comparison with half-lives obtained
by approach WKB. This result is stable for all studied nuclei.