Perspectives for study of thermophysical properties via uniform
quasi-stationary volumetric heating under Heavy Ion Beam (HIB) heating with
moderate but realistic energy deposition (~ 1 kJ/g) are under discussion. New
quasi-isobaric regime of heating is proposed as combination of the HIB energy
deposition with the use of highly dispersed porous material as an irradiating
sample. Regime of "tracing saturation curve" is proposed also when heating the
evaporating porous materials. Consequent preferences and priorities are
emphasized. In frames of this technique HIB could became an uncompetitive tool
for study of phase transition phenomenon for a wide number of materials with
high-temperature location of critical point. Two important thermophysical
problems, which could approve using of HIB facility, are discussed as the
first-row candidates. Evaporation in Uranium is one of the most tempting
candidates to be studied under HIB heating in such manner. When being
successful this experiment has a good chance to resolve the old contradiction
within the problem of Uranium critical point parameters estimations. The
heating by HIB seems to be especially promising as an effective tool for
systematic study of so-called "non-congruent" phase transition -- striking and
mostly unusual sort of high-temperature phase equilibrium in chemically active
strongly coupled plasmas. Phase transition in uranium dioxide is remarkable
example of such non-congruency. New information on the thermophysical
properties of phase transitions in uranium and uranium dioxide could be
valuable for application in nuclear reactor safety analysis