In previous papers I have argued that the \emph{fusion rules hypothesis},
which was originally introduced by L'vov and Procaccia in the context of the
problem of three-dimensional turbulence, can be used to gain a deeper insight
in understanding the enstrophy cascade and inverse energy cascade of
two-dimensional turbulence. In the present paper we show that the fusion rules
hypothesis, combined with \emph{non-perturbative locality}, itself a
consequence of the fusion rules hypothesis, dictates the location of the
boundary separating the inertial range from the dissipation range. In so doing,
the hypothesis that there may be an anomalous enstrophy sink at small scales
and an anomalous energy sink at large scales emerges as a consequence of the
fusion rules hypothesis. More broadly, we illustrate the significance of
viewing inertial ranges as multi-dimensional regions where the fully unfused
generalized structure functions of the velocity field are self-similar, by
considering, in this paper, the simplified projection of such regions in a
two-dimensional space, involving a small scale $r$ and a large scale $R$, which
we call, in this paper, the $(r, R)$-plane. We see, for example, that the
logarithmic correction in the enstrophy cascade, under standard molecular
dissipation, plays an essential role in inflating the inertial range in the
$(r, R)$ plane to ensure the possibility of local interactions. We have also
seen that increasingly higher orders of hyperdiffusion at large scales or
hypodiffusion at small scales make the predicted sink anomalies more resilient
to possible violations of the fusion rules hypothesis.