We study the evolution of planetesimals in evolved gaseous disks, which orbit
a solar-mass star and harbor a Jupiter-mass planet at a_p~5AU. The gas dynamics
is modeled with a three-dimensional hydrodynamics code that employes
nested-grids and achieves a resolution of one Jupiter's radius in the
circumplanetary disk. The code models solids as individual particles.
Planetesimals are subjected to gravitational forces by the star and the planet,
drag force by the gas, disruption via ram pressure, and mass loss through
ablation. The mass evolution of solids is calculated self-consistently with
their temperature, velocity, and position. We consider icy and icy/rocky bodies
of radius 0.1-100km, initially deployed on orbits around the star within a few
Hill radii (Rhill) of the planet's orbit. Planetesimals are scattered inward,
outward, and toward disk regions of radius r>>a_p. Scattering can relocate
significant amounts of solids, provided that regions |r-a_p|~ 3Rhill are
replenished with planetesimals. Scattered bodies can be temporarily captured on
planetocentric orbits. Ablation consumes nearly all solids at gas temperatures
> ~220K. Super-keplerian rotation around and beyond the outer edge of the gas
gap can segregate < ~0.1km bodies, producing solid gap edges at size-dependent
radial locations. Capture, break-up, and ablation of solids result in a
dust-laden circumplanetary disk with low surface densities of km-size
planetesimals, implying relatively long timescales for satellite formation.
After a giant planet acquires most of its mass, accretion of solids is unlikely
to alter significantly its heavy-element content. The luminosity generated by
solids' accretion can be of a similar order of magnitude to the contraction
luminosity.