Phobos Laser Ranging (PLR) is a concept for a space mission designed to
advance tests of relativistic gravity in the solar system. PLR's primary
objective is to measure the curvature of space around the Sun, represented by
the Eddington parameter $\gamma$, with an accuracy of two parts in $10^7$,
thereby improving today's best result by two orders of magnitude. Other mission
goals include measurements of the time-rate-of-change of the gravitational
constant, $G$ and of the gravitational inverse square law at 1.5 AU
distances--with up to two orders-of-magnitude improvement for each. The science
parameters will be estimated using laser ranging measurements of the distance
between an Earth station and an active laser transponder on Phobos capable of
reaching mm-level range resolution. A transponder on Phobos sending 0.25 mJ, 10
ps pulses at 1 kHz, and receiving asynchronous 1 kHz pulses from earth via a 12
cm aperture will permit links that even at maximum range will exceed a photon
per second. A total measurement precision of 50 ps demands a few hundred
photons to average to 1 mm (3.3 ps) range precision. Existing satellite laser
ranging (SLR) facilities--with appropriate augmentation--may be able to
participate in PLR. Since Phobos' orbital period is about 8 hours, each
observatory is guaranteed visibility of the Phobos instrument every Earth day.
Given the current technology readiness level, PLR could be started in 2011 for
launch in 2016 for 3 years of science operations. We discuss the PLR's science
objectives, instrument, and mission design. We also present the details of
science simulations performed to support the mission's primary objectives.