Data from complex modern astronomical instruments often consist of a large
number of different science and calibration files, and their reduction requires
a variety of software tools. The execution chain of the tools represents a
complex workflow that needs to be tuned and supervised, often by individual
researchers that are not necessarily experts for any specific instrument. The
efficiency of data reduction can be improved by using automatic workflows to
organise data and execute the sequence of data reduction steps. To realize such
efficiency gains, we designed a system that allows intuitive representation,
execution and modification of the data reduction workflow, and has facilities
for inspection and interaction with the data. The European Southern Observatory
(ESO) has developed Reflex, an environment to automate data reduction
workflows. Reflex is implemented as a package of customized components for the
Kepler workflow engine. Kepler provides the graphical user interface to create
an executable flowchart-like representation of the data reduction process. Key
features of Reflex are a rule-based data organiser, infrastructure to re-use
results, thorough book-keeping, data progeny tracking, interactive user
interfaces, and a novel concept to exploit information created during data
organisation for the workflow execution. Reflex includes novel concepts to
increase the efficiency of astronomical data processing. While Reflex is a
specific implementation of astronomical scientific workflows within the Kepler
workflow engine, the overall design choices and methods can also be applied to
other environments for running automated science workflows.