VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) is a growing technology during last
decade. It provides the audio, video streaming facility on successful
implementation in the network. However, it provides the text transport facility
over the network. Due to implementation of it the cost effective solution, it
can be developed for the intercommunication among the employees of a
prestigious organization. The proposed idea has been implemented on the audio
streaming area of the VoIP technology. In the audio streaming, the security
vulnerabilities are possible on the VoIP server during communication between
two parties. In the proposed model, first the VoIP system has been implemented
with IVR (Interactive Voice Response) as a case study and with the
implementation of the security parameters provided to the asterisk server which
works as a VoIP service provider. The asterisk server has been configured with
different security parameters like VPN server, Firewall iptable rules,
Intrusion Detection and Intrusion Prevention System. Every parameter will be
monitored by the system administrator of the VoIP server along with the MySQL
database. The system admin will get every update related to the attacks on the
server through Mail server attached to the asterisk server. The main beauty of
the proposed system is VoIP server alone is configured as a VoIP server, IVR
provider, Mail Server with IDS and IPS, VPN server, connection with database
server in a single asterisk server inside virtualization environment. The VoIP
system is implemented for a Local Area Network inside the university system