We present the "condensation" method that exploits the heterogeneity of the
probability distribution functions (PDF) of event locations to improve the
spatial information content of seismic catalogs. The method reduces the size of
seismic catalogs while improving the access to the spatial information content
of seismic catalogs. The PDFs of events are first ranked by decreasing location
errors and then successively condensed onto better located and lower variance
event PDFs. The obtained condensed catalog attributes different weights to each
event, providing an optimal spatial representation with respect to the
spatially varying location capability of the seismic network. Synthetic tests
on fractal distributions perturbed with realistic location errors show that
condensation improves spatial information content of the original catalog.
Applied to Southern California seismicity, the new condensed catalog highlights
major mapped fault traces and reveals possible additional structures while
reducing the catalog length by ~25%. The condensation method allows us to
account for location error information within a point based spatial analysis.
We demonstrate this by comparing the multifractal properties of the condensed
catalog locations with those of the original catalog. We evidence different
spatial scaling regimes characterized by distinct multifractal spectra and
separated by transition scales. We interpret the upper scale as to agree with
the thickness of the brittle crust, while the lower scale (2.5km) might depend
on the relocation procedure. Accounting for these new results, the Epidemic
Type Aftershock Model formulation suggests that, contrary to previous studies,
large earthquakes dominate the earthquake triggering process. This implies that
the limited capability of detecting small magnitude events cannot be used to
argue that earthquakes are unpredictable in general.