We explain the properties of X-ray selected BL Lacertae objects, under the
assumption that they constitute the small minority of the BL Lac population
with energy cutoff located in the UV/X-ray band, as suggested by their
multifrequency spectra. In particular, we derive their X-ray luminosity
function, log N-log S, and radio flux distribution starting from radio selected
BL Lacs using a method that does not require any free parameters. Our
hypothesis is at variance with the most common explanation for the existence of
two classes of BL Lacs, namely that X-ray selected objects are viewed
significantly off the beaming axis while radio-selected ones have their jets
more aligned with the line of sight. In this case, in fact, X-ray selected
sources should be intrinsically more numerous than objects selected in the
radio band at a fixed value of some isotropic luminosity such as that of the
diffuse radio emission. While also accounting for most of the properties of BL
Lacs detected in current X-ray surveys, this latter scenario would predict
their radio emission to be dominated by the extended (unbeamed) component, in
contrast with observations. We also address the question of the negative
evolution apparently exhibited by X-ray selected BL Lacs, showing that neither
recognition problems nor a break in the X-ray spectrum are likely to be
responsible for it. Our hypothesis explains in a simple way the bimodal
distribution of BL Lacs in the alpha_ro - alpha_ ox diagram. It also makes
specific predictions for the X-ray, radio, and optical properties of BL Lacs
which will be tested by future deep X-ray surveys.