In a recent experimental study, Siegrist et al. [Nature Materials 10, 202
(2011)] investigated the metal-insulator transition (MIT) of GeSb_2Te_4 and
related phase-change materials on increasing annealing temperature. The contributors
conclude that these materials exhibit a discontinuous MIT with a finite minimum
metallic conductivity. The striking contrast to reports on other disordered
substances motivates the present in-depth study of the influence of the MIT
criterion used on the characterization of the MIT. First, we discuss in detail
the inherent biases of the various available approaches to locating the MIT.
Second, reanalyzing the GeSb_2Te_4 measurements, we show that this solid
resembles other disordered materials to a large extent: According to a
widely-used approach, these data may also be interpreted in terms of a
continuous MIT. Carefully checking the justification of the respective fits,
however, uncovers inconsistencies in the experimental data, which currently
render an unambiguous interpretation impossible. Third, comparing with previous
experimental studies of crystalline Si:As, Si:P, Si:B, Ge:Ga, disordered Gd,
and nano-granular Pt-C, we show that such an inconclusive behavior occurs
frequently: The consideration of the logarithmic derivative of the conductivity
highlights serious inconsistencies in the original interpretations in terms of
a continuous MIT. In part, they are common to all these studies and seem to be
generic, in part, they vary from experiment to experiment and may arise from
measurement problems. Thus, the question for the character of the MIT of these
materials has to be considered as yet open, and the challenge lies in improving
the measurement precision.