We report the detection of a CO emission line from the submillimiter galaxy
(SMG) GN10 in the GOODS-N field. GN10 lacks any counterpart in extremely deep
optical and near-IR imaging obtained with the Hubble Space Telescope and
ground-based facilities. This is a prototypical case of a source that is
extremely obscured by dust, for which it is practically impossible to derive a
spectroscopic redshift in the optical/near-IR. Under the hypothesis that GN10
is part of a proto-cluster structure previously identified at z~4.05 in the
same field, we searched for CO[4-3] at 91.4 GHz with the IRAM Plateau de Bure
Interferometer, and successfully detected a line. We find that the most likely
redshift identification is z=4.0424+-0.0013, based on: 1) the very low chance
that the CO line is actually serendipitous from a different redshift; 2) a
radio-IR photometric redshift analysis; 3) the identical radio-IR SED, within a
scaling factor, of two other SMGs at the same redshift. The faintness at
optical/near-IR wavelengths requires an attenuation of A_V~5-7.5 mag. This
result supports the case that a substantial population of very high-z SMGs
exists that had been missed by previous spectroscopic surveys. This is the
first time that a CO emission line has been detected for a galaxy that is
invisible in the optical and near-IR. Our work demonstrates the power of
existing and planned facilities for completing the census of star formation and
stellar mass in the distant Universe by measuring redshifts of the most
obscured galaxies through millimeter spectroscopy.