We present maps of the first-ranked HII region complex Hubble V in the
metal-poor Local Group dwarf galaxy NGC 6822 in the first four transitions of
CO, the 158 micron transition of C+, the 21-cm line of HI, the Pa-beta line of
HII, and the continuum at 21 cm and 2.2 micron wavelengths. We have also
determined various integrated intensities, notably of HCO+ and near-IR H2
emission. Although Hubble X is located in a region of relatively strong HI
emission, our mapping failed to reveal any significant CO emission from it. The
relatively small CO cloud complex associated with Hubble V is comparable in
size to the ionized HII region. The CO clouds are hot (Tkin) = 150 K) and have
high molecular gas densities (n(H2) = 10**4 cm**-3) Molecular hydrogen probably
extends well beyond the CO boundaries. C+ column densities are more than an
order of magnitude higher than those of CO. The total mass of the complex is
about 10**6 M(sun) and molecular gas account for more than half of this. The
complex is excited by luminous stars reddened or obscured at visual, but
apparent at near-infrared wavelengths. The total embedded stellar mass may
account for about 10% of the total mass, and the mass of ionized gas for half
of that. Hubble V illustrates that modest star formation efficiencies may be
associated with high CO destruction efficiencies in low-metallicity objects.
The analysis of the Hubble V photon-dominated region (PDR) confirms in an
independent manner the high value of the CO-to-H2 conversion factor X found
earlier, characteristic of starforming low-metallicity regions.