This paper studies the Shannon regime for the random displacement of
stationary point processes. Let each point of some initial stationary point
process in $\R^n$ give rise to one daughter point, the location of which is
obtained by adding a random vector to the coordinates of the mother point, with
all displacement vectors independently and identically distributed for all
points. The decoding problem is then the following one: the whole mother point
process is known as well as the coordinates of some daughter point; the
displacements are only known through their law; can one find the mother of this
daughter point? The Shannon regime is that where the dimension $n$ tends to
infinity and where the logarithm of the intensity of the point process is
proportional to $n$. We show that this problem exhibits a sharp threshold: if
the sum of the proportionality factor and of the differential entropy rate of
the noise is positive, then the probability of finding the right mother point
tends to 0 with $n$ for all point processes and decoding strategies. If this
sum is negative, there exist mother point processes, for instance Poisson, and
decoding strategies, for instance maximum likelihood, for which the probability
of finding the right mother tends to 1 with $n$. We then use large deviations
theory to show that in the latter case, if the entropy spectrum of the noise
satisfies a large deviation principle, then the error probability goes
exponentially fast to 0 with an exponent that is given in closed form in terms
of the rate function of the noise entropy spectrum. This is done for two
classes of mother point processes: Poisson and Mat\'ern. The practical interest
to information theory comes from the explicit connection that we also establish
between this problem and the estimation of error exponents in Shannon's
additive noise channel with power constraints on the codewords.