We have obtained high resolution FUSE and HST/STIS echelle observations of
the quasar PG 1116+215. The semi-continuous coverage of the ultraviolet
spectrum over the wavelength range 916-2800 provides detections of Galactic and
high velocity cloud (HVC) absorption over a wide range of ionization species
over the local standard of rest velocity range -100 - +200 km/s. The high
dispersion of these spectra (6.5-20 km/s) reveals that low ionization species
consist of five discrete components, three at low-to-intermediate velocities,
and two at high velocities (v = +100, +184 km/s). Over the same velocity range,
the higher ionization species show continuous absorption with column density
peaks at v = +10 km/s +184 km/s. The absorption kinematics of the v=+184 km/s
HVC suggest a scenario in which a low-ionization cloud of gas is streaming
through a hot external medium that is stripping gas from this cloud. Using the
OI and HI column densities, we estimate [O/H]=-0.66, with a substantial
uncertainty due to saturation of the HI Lyman series. If the ionization of the
cloud core is photonionization by the extragalactic UV background, we estimate
the cloud has a density of 10^-2.7 cm^-3. If photons escaping the Galactic disk
are also included, the density could be higher by nearly 2 dex. In either case,
the relative abundances of O, Si, and Fe in the cloud core are readily
explained by a solar pattern. Magellanic Stream gas is a possible origin for
this gas and is consistent with the location of the HVC on the sky, as well as
its high positive velocity, the ionization, and metallicity. [Abridged]