The Supernova Remnant (SNR) IC 443 is an intermediate-age remnant well known
for its radio, optical, X-ray and gamma-ray energy emissions. In this Letter we
study the gamma-ray emission above 100 MeV from IC 443 as obtained by the AGILE
satellite. A distinct pattern of diffuse emission in the energy range 100 MeV-3
GeV is detected across the SNR with its prominent maximum (source "A")
localized in the Northeastern shell with a flux F = (47 \pm 10) 10^{-8} photons
cm^{-2} s^{-1} above 100 MeV. This location is the site of the strongest shock
interaction between the SNR blast wave and the dense circumstellar medium.
Source "A" is not coincident with the TeV source located 0.4 degree away and
associated with a dense molecular cloud complex in the SNR central region. From
our observations, and from the lack of detectable diffuse TeV emission from its
Northeastern rim, we demonstrate that electrons cannot be the main emitters of
gamma-rays in the range 0.1-10 GeV at the site of the strongest SNR shock. The
intensity, spectral characteristics, and location of the most prominent
gamma-ray emission together with the absence of co-spatial detectable TeV
emission are consistent only with a hadronic model of cosmic-ray acceleration
in the SNR. A high-density molecular cloud (cloud "E") provides a remarkable
"target" for nucleonic interactions of accelerated hadrons: our results show
enhanced gamma-ray production near the molecular cloud/shocked shell
interaction site. IC 443 provides the first unambiguous evidence of cosmic-ray
acceleration by SNRs.