Pluto's system of 5 known satellites are in a puzzling orbital configuration.
Each of the four small satellites are on low-eccentricity and low-inclination
orbits situated near a mean motion resonance with the largest satellite Charon.
The Pluto-Charon binary likely formed as a result of a giant impact and so the
simplest explanation for the small satellites is that they accreted from debris
of that collision. The Pluto-Charon binary has evolved outward since its
formation due to tidal forces, which drove them into their current doubly
synchronous state. Meanwhile, leftover debris from the formation of Charon was
not initially distant enough from Pluto-Charon to explain the orbits of the
current small satellites. The outstanding problems of the system are the
movement of debris outward and the small satellites location near mean motion
resonances with Charon.
  This work explores the dynamical behavior of collisionally interacting debris
orbiting the Pluto-Charon system. While this work specifically tests initial
disk and ring configurations designed to mimic the aftermath of the disruption
of satellites by heliocentric impactors, we generally find that collisional
interactions can help move material outwards and keep otherwise unstable
material dynamically bound to the Pluto-Charon system. These processes can
produce rings of debris whose orbits evolve rapidly due to collisional
processes, with increasing pericenters and decreasing semimajor axes. While
these rings and disks of debris eventually build satellites significantly
further out than the initial locations of a disrupted satellite, they do not
show a strong preference for building satellites in or near mean motion
resonances with Charon under a wide array of tested conditions.