Fomalhaut is a young, nearby star that is suspected to harbor an infant
planetary system, interspersed with one or more belts of dusty debris. We
present far-infrared images obtained with the Herschel Space Observatory with
an angular resolution between 5.7 and 36.7 arcsec at wavelengths between 70 and
500 micrometer. The images show the main debris belt in great detail. Even at
high spatial resolution, the belt appears smooth. The region in between the
belt and the central star is not devoid of material; thermal emission is
observed here as well. Also at the location of the star, excess emission is
detected.
  We use a dynamical model together with radiative-transfer tools to derive the
parameters of the debris disk. We include detailed models of the interaction of
the dust grains with radiation, for both the radiation pressure and the
temperature determination. Comparing these models to the spatially resolved
temperature information contained in the images allows us to place strong
constraints on the presence of grains that will be blown out of the system by
radiation pressure. We use this to derive the dynamical parameters of the
system.
  The appearance of the belt points towards a remarkably active system in which
dust grains are produced at a very high rate by a collisional cascade in a
narrow region filled with dynamically excited planetesimals. Dust particles
with sizes below the blow-out size are abundantly present. The equivalent of
2000 one-km-sized comets are destroyed every day, out of a cometary reservoir
amounting to 110 Earth masses. From comparison of their scattering and thermal
properties, we find evidence that the dust grains are fluffy aggregates, which
indicates a cometary origin. The excess emission at the location of the star
may be produced by hot dust with a range of temperatures, but may also be due
to gaseous free-free emission from a stellar wind.