We report the detection of polarized anisotropy in the Cosmic Microwave
Background radiation with the Degree Angular Scale Interferometer (DASI),
located at the Amundsen-Scott South Pole research station. Observations in all
four Stokes parameters were obtained within two 3.4 FWHM fields separated by
one hour in Right Ascension. The fields were selected from the subset of fields
observed with DASI in 2000 in which no point sources were detected and are
located in regions of low Galactic synchrotron and dust emission. The
temperature angular power spectrum is consistent with previous measurements and
its measured frequency spectral index is -0.01 (-0.16 -- 0.14 at 68%
confidence), where 0 corresponds to a 2.73 K Planck spectrum. The power
spectrum of the detected polarization is consistent with theoretical
predictions based on the interpretation of CMB anisotropy as arising from
primordial scalar adiabatic fluctuations. Specifically, E-mode polarization is
detected at high confidence (4.9 sigma). Assuming a shape for the power
spectrum consistent with previous temperature measurements, the level found for
the E-mode polarization is 0.80 (0.56 -- 1.10), where the predicted level given
previous temperature data is 0.9 -- 1.1. At 95% confidence, an upper limit of
0.59 is set to the level of B-mode polarization with the same shape and
normalization as the E-mode spectrum. The TE correlation of the temperature and
E-mode polarization is detected at 95% confidence, and also found to be
consistent with predictions. These results provide strong validation of the
underlying theoretical framework for the origin of CMB anisotropy and lend
confidence to the values of the cosmological parameters that have been derived
from CMB measurements.