The Large Observatory For X-ray Timing (LOFT) is one of the candidate
missions selected by the European Space Agency for an initial assessment phase
in the Cosmic Vision programme. It is proposed for the M3 launch slot and has
broad scientific goals related to fast timing of astrophysical X-ray sources.
LOFT will carry the Large Area Detector (LAD), as one of the two core science
instruments, necessary to achieve the challenging objectives of the project.
LAD is a collimated detector working in the energy range 2-50 keV with an
effective area of approximately 10 m^2 at 8 keV.
  The instrument comprises an array of modules located on deployable panels.
Lead-glass microchannel plate (MCP) collimators are located in front of the
large-area Silicon Drift Detectors (SDD) to reduce the background contamination
from off-axis resolved point sources and from the diffuse X-ray background. The
inner walls of the microchannel plate pores reflect grazing incidence X-ray
photons with a probability that depends on energy. In this paper, we present a
study performed with an ad-hoc simulator of the effects of this capillary
reflectivity on the overall instrument performance. The reflectivity is derived
from a limited set of laboratory measurements, used to constrain the model. The
measurements were taken using a prototype collimator whose thickness is similar
to that adopted in the current baseline design proposed for the LAD.
  We find that the experimentally measured level of reflectivity of the pore
inner walls enhances the off-axis transmission at low energies, producing an
almost flat-top response. The resulting background increase due to the diffuse
cosmic X-ray emission and sources within the field of view does not degrade the
instrument sensitivity.