We successfully carried out the first high-altitude balloon flight of a
wide-field hard X-ray coded-aperture telescope ProtoEXIST1, which was launched
from the Columbia Scientific Balloon Facility at Ft. Sumner, New Mexico on
October 9, 2009. ProtoEXIST1 is the first implementation of an advanced CdZnTe
(CZT) imaging detector in our ongoing program to establish the technology
required for next generation wide-field hard X-ray telescopes. The CZT detector
plane in ProtoEXIST1 consists of an 8 x 8 array of closely tiled 2 cm x 2 cm x
0.5 cm thick pixellated CZT crystals, each with 8 x 8 pixels, covering a 256
cm^2 active area with 2.5 mm pixels. A tungsten mask, mounted at 90 cm above
the detector provides shadowgrams of X-ray sources in the 30 - 600 keV band for
imaging, allowing a fully coded field of view of 9 Deg x 9 Deg with an angular
resolution of 20 arcmin. To reduce the background radiation, the detector is
surrounded by semi-graded (Pb/Sn/Cu) passive shields on the four sides all the
way to the mask. On the back side, a 26 cm x 26 cm x 2 cm CsI(Na) active shield
provides signals to tag charged particle induced events as well as >~ 100 keV
background photons from below. The flight duration was only about 7.5 hours due
to strong winds (60 knots) at float altitude (38-39 km). Throughout the flight,
the CZT detector performed excellently. The telescope observed Cyg X-1 for ~ 1
hour at the end of the flight. Despite a few problems with the pointing and
aspect systems that caused the telescope to track about 6.4 deg off the target,
the analysis of the Cyg X-1 data revealed an X-ray source at 7.2 sigma in the
30-100 keV energy band at the expected location from the optical images taken
by the onboard daytime star camera. The success of this first flight is very
encouraging for the future development of the advanced CZT imaging detectors
(ProtoEXIST2, with 0.6 mm pixels).