The different electron distributions in the hard and soft spectral states (HS
and SS) of BH binaries could be caused by kinetic processes and changing
because of varying physical conditions in the corona. In presence of a magnetic
field in the corona, the electron distribution can appear thermal, even when
acceleration mechanisms would produce non thermal distributions. This is due to
fast and efficient thermalization through synchrotron self-absorption. We have
analyzed data from 6 years of observations of Cygnus X-1 with the INTEGRAL
observatory and produced 12 high-quality, stacked broad-band hard X-ray spectra
representative of the whole range of spectral shapes observed. We then fit
these spectra with hybrid thermal/non-thermal Comptonization models and study
the evolution of the physical parameters of the accretion flow across the
spectral transition. In particular, we use the BELM model to constrain the
magnetic field in the corona through its effects on the coronal emission.
Indeed, the hot electrons of the X-ray corona produce soft (optical-UV)
synchrotron radiation which is then Comptonized and may affect the temperature
of the electrons through Compton cooling. We find that in the SS, the emission
is dominated by Comptonization of the disc photons and the magnetic field is at
most of the order of 1E+06 G. In the hard states, the data are consistent with
a pure synchrotron self-Compton model. If the non-thermal excess observed above
a few hundred keV in the HS is produced in the same region as the bulk of the
thermal Comptonization, we obtain an upper limit on the coronal magnetic field
of about 1E+05 G. If, on the other hand, the non-thermal excess is produced in
a different location, the constraints on the magnetic field in the HS are
somewhat relaxed and the upper limit rises to 1E+07 G. We discuss these
constraints in the context of current accretion flow models.