We study the effect of starlight from the first stars on the ability of other
minihaloes in their neighborhood to form additional stars. The question of what
the dynamical consequences were for these target minihaloes, of their exposure
to the ionizing and dissociating starlight from the Pop III star requires a
full radiation-hydrodynamics calculation. Towards this end, we have performed a
series of detailed, 1D, radiation-hydrodynamical simulations. We have varied
the distance to the source (and, hence, the flux) and the mass and evolutionary
stage of the target haloes to quantify this effect. We find: (1) trapping of
the I-front and its transformation from R-type to D-type, preceded by a shock
front; (2) photoevaporation of the ionized gas (i.e. all gas originally located
outside the trapping radius); (3) formation of an H_2 precursor shell which
leads the I-front, stimulated by partial photoionization; and (4) the
shock-induced formation of H_2 in the minihalo neutral core when the shock
speeds up and partially ionizes the gas. The fate of the neutral core is mostly
determined by the response of the core to this shock front, which leads to
molecular cooling and collapse that, when compared to the same halo without
external radiation, is either: (a) expedited, (b) delayed, (c) unaltered, or
(d) reversed or prevented, depending upon the flux (i.e. distance to the
source) and the halo mass and evolutionary stage. Roughly speaking, most haloes
that were destined to cool, collapse, and form stars in the absence of external
radiation are found to do so even when exposed to the first Pop III star in
their neighborhood, while those that would not have done so are still not able
to. (abridged)