The presence of mesoscopic heterogeneities in fluid-saturated porous rocks
can produce measurable seismoelectric signals due to wave-induced fluid flow
between regions of differing compressibility. The dependence of these signals
on the petrophysical and structural characteristics of the probed rock mass
remains largely unexplored. In this work, we derive an analytical solution to
describe the seismoelectric response of a rock sample, containing a horizontal
layer at its center, that is subjected to an oscillatory compressibility test.
We then adapt this general solution to compute the seismoelectric signature of
a particular case related to a sample that is permeated by a horizontal
fracture located at its center. Analyses of the general and particular
solutions are performed to study the impact of different petrophysical and
structural parameters on the seismoelectric response. We find that the
amplitude of the seismoelectric signal is directly proportional to the applied
stress, to the Skempton coefficient contrast between the host rock and the
layer, and to a weighted average of the effective excess charge of the two
materials. Our results also demonstrate that the frequency at which the maximum
electrical potential amplitude prevails does not depend on the applied stress
or the Skempton coefficient contrast. In presence of strong permeability
variations, this frequency is rather controlled by the permeability and
thickness of the less permeable material. The results of this study thus
indicate that seismoelectric measurements can potentially be used to estimate
key mechanical and hydraulic rock properties of mesoscopic heterogeneities,
such as compressibility, permeability, and fracture compliance.