The "Extreme starbursts in the local universe" workshop was held at the
Insituto de Astrofisica de Andalucia in Granada, Spain on 21-25 June 2010.
Bearing in mind the advent of a new generation of facilities such as JWST,
Herschel, ALMA, eVLA and eMerlin, the aim of the workshop was to bring together
observers and theorists to review the latest results. The purpose of the
workshop was to address the following issues: what are the main modes of
triggering extreme starbursts in the local Universe? How efficiently are stars
formed in extreme starbursts? What are the star formation histories of local
starburst galaxies? How well do the theoretical simulations model the
observations? What can we learn about starbursts in the distant Universe
through studies of their local counterparts? How important is the role of
extreme starbursts in the hierarchical assembly of galaxies? How are extreme
starbursts related to the triggering of AGN in the nuclei of galaxies? Overall,
41 talks and 4 posters with their corresponding 10 minutes short talks were
presented during the workshop. In addition, the workshop was designed with
emphasis on discussions, and therefore, there were 6 discussion sessions of up
to one hour during the workshop. Here is presented a summary of the purposes of
the workshop as well as a compilation of the abstracts corresponding to each of
the presentations. The summary and conclusions of the workshop along with a
description of the future prospects by Sylvain Veilleux can be found in the
last section of this document. A photo of the assistants is included.