Complex non-linear and dynamic processes lie at the heart of the planet
formation process. Through numerical simulation and basic observational
constraints, the basics of planet formation are now coming into focus. High
resolution imaging at a range of wavelengths will give us a glimpse into the
past of our own solar system and enable a robust theoretical framework for
predicting planetary system architectures around a range of stars surrounded by
disks with a diversity of initial conditions. Only long-baseline interferometry
can provide the needed angular resolution and wavelength coverage to reach
these goals and from here we launch our planning efforts. The aim of the
"Planet Formation Imager" (PFI) project is to develop the roadmap for the
construction of a new near-/mid-infrared interferometric facility that will be
optimized to unmask all the major stages of planet formation, from initial dust
coagulation, gap formation, evolution of transition disks, mass accretion onto
planetary embryos, and eventual disk dispersal. PFI will be able to detect the
emission of the cooling, newly-formed planets themselves over the first 100
Myrs, opening up both spectral investigations and also providing a vibrant look
into the early dynamical histories of planetary architectures. Here we
introduce the Planet Formation Imager (PFI) Project
(www.planetformationimager.org) and give initial thoughts on possible facility
architectures and technical advances that will be needed to meet the
challenging top-level science requirements.