The orbital period of the binary pulsar PSR J0045-7319, which is located in
our neighbouring galaxy the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), appears to be
decreasing on a timescale of half a million year. This timescale is more than
two orders of magnitude smaller than what is expected from the standard theory
of tidal dissipation. Kumar and Quataert (1997a) proposed that this rapid
evolution can be understood provided that the neutron star's companion, a main
sequence B-star, has set up significant differential rotation. They showed that
the spin synchronization time for the B-star is similar to the orbit
circularization time, whereas the time to synchronize the surface rotation is
much shorter, and thus significant differential rotation in the star is indeed
expected. However, their calculation did not include the various processes that
can redistribute angular momentum in the star, possibly forcing it into solid
body rotation; in that case the dissipation of the tide would not be enhanced.
The goal of this paper is to include the redistribution of angular momentum in
the B-star due to meridional circulation and shear stresses and to calculate
the resulting rotation profile as a function of time. We find that although
angular momentum redistribution is important, the B-star continues to have
sufficient differential rotation so that tidal waves are entirely absorbed as
they arrive at the surface. The mechanism proposed by Kumar and Quataert to
speed up the orbital evolution of the SMC binary pulsar should therefore work
as suggested.