We compare first order (refractive) ionospheric effects seen by the Murchison
Widefield Array (MWA) with the ionosphere as inferred from Global Positioning
System (GPS) data. The first order ionosphere manifests itself as a bulk
position shift of the observed sources across an MWA field of view. These
effects can be computed from global ionosphere maps provided by GPS analysis
centres, namely the Center for Orbit Determination in Europe (CODE), using data
from globally distributed GPS receivers. However, for the more accurate local
ionosphere estimates required for precision radio astronomy applications, data
from local GPS networks needs to be incorporated into ionospheric modelling.
For GPS observations, the ionospheric parameters are biased by GPS receiver
instrument delays, among other effects, also known as receiver Differential
Code Biases (DCBs). The receiver DCBs need to be estimated for any non-CODE GPS
station used for ionosphere modelling, a requirement for establishing dense GPS
networks in arbitrary locations in the vicinity of the MWA. In this work,
single GPS station-based ionospheric modelling is performed at a time
resolution of 10 minutes. Also the receiver DCBs are estimated for selected
Geoscience Australia (GA) GPS receivers, located at Murchison Radio Observatory
(MRO1), Yarragadee (YAR3), Mount Magnet (MTMA) and Wiluna (WILU). The
ionospheric gradients estimated from GPS are compared with the ionospheric
gradients inferred from radio source position shifts observed with the MWA. The
ionospheric gradients at all the GPS stations show a correlation with the
gradients observed with the MWA. The ionosphere estimates obtained using GPS
measurements show promise in terms of providing calibration information for the
MWA.