One of the main endeavors of fundamental astrometry is to establish a
practical realization of an inertial reference frame anchored to celestial
objects whose positions are defined in the barycentric coordinates of the solar
system. The development of astrometric facilities operating from space at a
microarcsecond level of precision makes the non-uniformity of the galactic
motion of the barycenter an observable effect that violates the inertiality of
the barycentric frame. Most of the observable effect is caused by secular
acceleration of the barycenter with respect to the center of the Galaxy. The
acceleration results in a pattern of secular aberration which is observable
astrometrically as a systematic vector field of the proper motions of distant
quasars. We employ the vector spherical harmonics to describe the predicted
field of the proper motions and evaluate its amplitude at each point on the
celestial sphere. It is shown that the pattern of secular aberration is fully
represented by three low-order electric-type vector harmonics, and hence, it is
easily distinguishable from the residual rotations of the reference frame and
other possible effects, such as the hypothetical long-period gravitational
waves. Comprehensive numerical simulations of the grid astrometry with SIM
PlanetQuest are conducted. The full covariance matrix of the simulated grid
solution is used to evaluate the covariances of the three electric harmonic
coefficients, representing the secular aberration pattern of proper motions. We
conclude that the grid astrometry with SIM PlanetQuest will be sensitive to the
main galactocentric component of secular acceleration, while the peculiar
acceleration of the Sun with respect to LSR is expected to be too small to be
detected with this astrometric space interferometer.