Modification of graphene to open a robust gap in its electronic spectrum is
essential for its use in field effect transistors and photochemistry
applications. Inspired by recent experimental success in the preparation of
homogeneous alloys of graphene and boron nitride (BN), we consider here
engineering the electronic structure and bandgap of C$_{2x}$B$_{1-x}$N$_{1-x}$
alloys via both compositional and configurational modification. We start from
the BN end-member, which already has a large bandgap, and then show that (a)
the bandgap can in principle be reduced to about 2 eV with moderate
substitution of C $(x<0.25)$; and (b) the electronic structure of
C$_{2x}$B$_{1-x}$N$_{1-x}$ can be further tuned not only with composition $x$,
but also with the configuration adopted by C substituents in the BN matrix. Our
analysis, based on accurate screened hybrid functional calculations, provides a
clear understanding of the correlation found between the bandgap and the level
of aggregation of C atoms: the bandgap decreases most when the C atoms are
maximally isolated, and increases with aggregation of C atoms due to the
formation of bonding and anti-bonding bands associated with hybridization of
occupied and empty defect states. We determine the location of valence and
conduction band edges relative to vacuum and discuss the implications on the
potential use of 2D C$_{2x}$B$_{1-x}$N$_{1-x}$ alloys in photocatalytic
applications. Finally, we assess the thermodynamic limitations on the formation
of these alloys using a cluster expansion model derived from first-principles.