The findings of more than 350 extrasolar planets, most of them nontransiting
Hot Jupiters, have revealed correlations between the metallicity of the
main-sequence (MS) host stars and planetary incidence. This connection can be
used to calculate the planet formation probability around other stars, not yet
known to have planetary companions. We locate the promising spots for current
transit surveys on the celestial plane and strive for absolute values of the
expected number of transits in general. We used data of the Tycho catalog for
about 1 million objects to locate all the stars with 0m < m_V < 11.5m on the
celestial plane. We took several empirical relations between the parameters
listed in the Tycho catalog, such as distance to Earth, m_V, and (B-V), and
those parameters needed to account for the probability of a star to host an
observable, transiting exoplanet. The empirical relations between stellar
metallicity and planet occurrence combined with geometrical considerations were
used to yield transit probabilities for the MS stars in the Tycho catalog.
Magnitude variations in the FOV were simulated to test whether this
fluctuations would be detected by BEST, XO, SuperWASP and HATNet. We present a
sky map of the expected number of Hot Jupiter transit events on the basis of
the Tycho catalog. The comparison between the considered transit surveys yields
significantly differing maps of the expected transit detections. The
sky-integrated magnitude distribution predicts 20 Hot Jupiter transits with
orbital periods between 1.5 d and 50 d and m_V < 8m, of which two are currently
known. In total, we expect 3412 Hot Jupiter transits to occur in front of MS
stars within the given magnitude range. The most promising observing site on
Earth is at latitude = -1.