We searched through roughly 12 years of archival survey data acquired by the
Katzman Automatic Imaging Telescope (KAIT) as part of the Lick Observatory
Supernova Search (LOSS) in order to detect or place limits on possible
progenitor outbursts of Type IIn supernovae (SNe~IIn). The KAIT database
contains multiple pre-SN images for 5 SNe~IIn (plus one ambiguous case of a SN
IIn/imposter) within 50 Mpc. No progenitor outbursts are found using the false
discovery rate (FDR) statistical method in any of our targets. Instead, we
derive limiting magnitudes (LMs) at the locations of the SNe. These limiting
magnitudes (typically reaching $m_R \approx 19.5\,\mathrm{mag}$) are compared
to outbursts of SN 2009ip and $\eta$ Car, plus additional simulated outbursts.
We find that the data for SN 1999el and SN 2003dv are of sufficient quality to
rule out events $\sim40$ days before the main peak caused by initially faint
SNe from blue supergiant (BSG) precursor stars, as in the cases of SN 2009ip
and SN 2010mc. These SNe~IIn may thus have arisen from red supergiant
progenitors, or they may have had a more rapid onset of circumstellar matter
interaction. We also estimate the probability of detecting at least one
outburst in our dataset to be $\gtrsim60\%$ for each type of the example
outbursts, so the lack of any detections suggests that such outbursts are
either typically less luminous (intrinsically or owing to dust) than $\sim
-13\,\mathrm{mag}$, or not very common among SNe~IIn within a few years prior
to explosion.