The Monitor project is a photometric monitoring survey of nine young
(1-200Myr) clusters in the solar neighbourhood to search for eclipses by very
low mass stars and brown dwarfs and for planetary transits in the light curves
of cluster members. It began in the autumn of 2004 and uses several 2 to 4m
telescopes worldwide. We aim to calibrate the relation between age, mass,
radius and where possible luminosity, from the K-dwarf to the planet regime, in
an age range where constraints on evolutionary models are currently very
scarce. Any detection of an exoplanet in one of our youngest targets (<=10Myr)
would also provide important constraints on planet formation and migration
timescales and their relation to proto-planetary disc lifetimes. Finally, we
will use the light curves of cluster members to study rotation and flaring in
low-mass pre-main sequence stars.
  The present paper details the motivation, science goals and observing
strategy of the survey. We present a method to estimate the sensitivity and
number of detections expected in each cluster, using a simple semi-analytic
approach which takes into account the characteristics of the cluster and
photometric observations, using (tunable) best-guess assumptions for the
incidence and parameter distribution of putative companions, and we incorporate
the limits imposed by radial velocity follow-up from medium and large
telescopes. We use these calculations to show that the survey as a whole can be
expected to detect over 100 young low and very low mass eclipsing binaries, and
approx. 3 transiting planets with radial velocity signatures detectable with
currently available facilities.