Observatories, Institutes and Centers that support major astronomical
facilities have, for decades, played a key role in maximizing the scientific
return from their facilities and telescopes. It is crucial to realize that an
"observatory" is more than simply a telescope or ensemble of telescopes that
provide observing opportunities for astronomers. Observatories are at the heart
of an institutional capability to do things beyond what is possible for
astronomers themselves to do as individuals. Observatories organize and
mobilize a range of multidisciplinary skills for achieving a coherent and
sustainable capability that is central to modern observational astrophysics.
Yet many of the activities and roles carried out by the "observatory"
organizations in fulfillment of their mission are not fully recognized by
policymakers or senior managers, and often not fully understood even within the
astronomy community. As we assess the future opportunities for new facilities
in a challenging budget environment it is important to be cognizant of what
observatories do and the roles they play. The University of California
Observatories (UCO) have contributed in many key ways to the overall success of
UC astronomy. UCO has played a central role in making the UC astronomy program
one of the leading astronomy programs on the international stage. This white
paper is intended to provide perspective on the roles played by an observatory,
and in particular, the role played by UCO - and to identify some current
challenges for UCO and UC astronomy.