The Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS) is a new facility instrument for Subaru
Telescope which will be installed in around 2017. It is a multi-object
spectrograph fed by about 2400 fibers placed at the prime focus covering a
hexagonal field-of-view with 1.35 deg diagonals and capable of simultaneously
obtaining data of spectra with wavelengths ranging from 0.38 um to 1.26 um. The
spectrograph system is composed of four identical modules each receiving the
light from 600 fibers. Each module incorporates three channels covering the
wavelength ranges 0.38-0.65 mu ("Blue"), 0.63-0.97 mu ("Red"), and 0.94-1.26 mu
("NIR") respectively; with resolving power which progresses fairly smoothly
from about 2000 in the blue to about 4000 in the infrared. An additional
spectral mode allows reaching a spectral resolution of 5000 at 0.8mu (red). The
proposed optical design is based on a Schmidt collimator facing three Schmidt
cameras (one per spectral channel). This architecture is very robust, well
known and documented. It allows for high image quality with only few simple
elements (high throughput) at the expense of the central obscuration, which
leads to larger optics. Each module has to be modular in its design to allow
for integration and tests and for its safe transport up to the telescope: this
is the main driver for the mechanical design. In particular, each module will
be firstly fully integrated and validated at LAM (France) before it is shipped
to Hawaii. All sub-assemblies will be indexed on the bench to allow for their
accurate repositioning. This paper will give an overview of the spectrograph
system which has successfully passed the Critical Design Review (CDR) in 2014
March and which is now in the construction phase.