Continuing our census of late-type dwarfs in the Solar Neighbourhood, we
present BVRI photometry and optical spectroscopy of 800 mid-type M dwarfs drawn
from the NLTT proper motion catalogue. The targets are taken from both our own
cross-referencing of the NLTT catalogue and the 2MASS Second Incremental
release, and from the revised NLTT compiled by Salim & Gould (2003). All are
identified as nearby-star candidates based on their location in the (m_r,
(m_r-K_S)) diagram. Three hundred stars discussed here have previous
astrometric, photometric or spectroscopic observations. We present new BVRI
photometry for 101 stars, together with low resolution spectroscopy of a
further 400 dwarfs. In total, we find that 241 stars are within 20 parsecs of
the Sun, while a further 70 lie within 1-sigma of our distance limit. Combining
the present results with previous analyses, we have quantitative observations
for 1910 of the 1913 candidates in our NLTT nearby-star samples. Eight hundred
and fifteen of those stars have distance estimates of 20 parsecs or less,
including 312 additions to the local census.
  With our NLTT follow-up observations essentially complete, we have searched
the literature for K and early-type M dwarfs within the sampling volume covered
by the 2MASS Second Release. Comparing the resultant 20-parsec census against
predicted numbers, derived from the 8-parsec luminosity function, shows an
overall deficit of ~20% for stellar systems and ~35% for individual stars.
Almost all are likely to be fainter than M_J=7, and at least half are probably
companions of known nearby stars. Our results suggest that there are relatively
few missing systems at the lowest luminosities, M_J > 8.5. We discuss possible
means of identifying the missing stars.