Context: Their high intrinsic brightness and small dispersion in absolute
magnitude make red clump (RC) stars a prime tracer of Galactic structure and
kinematics. Aims: We aim to derive accurate, multi-epoch radial velocities and
atmospheric parameters (Teff, log g, [M/H], Vrot sin i) of a large sample of
carefully selected RC stars, fainter than those present in other spectroscopic
surveys and located over a great circle at high Galactic latitudes. Methods: We
acquired data of the program stars of high signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) and high
resolution with the Asiago Echelle spectrograph. Radial velocities were
obtained by applying cross-correlation and atmospheric parameters via chi2 fit
to a synthetic spectral library. Extensive tests were carried out by
re-observing with the same instrument a large number of standard stars taken
from a variety of sources in the literature. During these tests, we found that
the absolute Tycho VT magnitude of local red clump stars is not dependent on
metallicity. Results: A total of 277 red clump stars (101 of them with a second
epoch observation) of the extended solar neighborhood and 55 calibration stars
were observed and included in an output catalog that contains (in addition to
relevant support astrometric and photometric data taken from literature) the
main output of our survey: accurate multi-epoch radial velocities (sigma(RV)=<
0.4 km/s), accurate atmospheric parameters (sigma(Teff)=68 K, sigma(log g)=0.11
dex, sigma([M/H])=0.10 dex, sigma(Vrot sin i)=1.1 km/sec), distances, and space
velocities (U,V,W).