We present a Faraday rotation measure (RM) study of the diffuse, polarized,
radio emission from the giant lobes of the nearest radio galaxy, Centaurus A.
After removal of the smooth Galactic foreground RM component, using an ensemble
of background source RMs located outside the giant lobes, we are left with a
residual RM signal associated with the giant lobes. We find the most likely
origin of this residual RM is from thermal material mixed throughout the
relativistic lobe plasma. The alternative possibility of a thin-skin/boundary
layer of magnetoionic material swept up by the expansion of the lobes is highly
unlikely since it requires, at least, an order of magnitude enhancement of the
swept up gas over the expected intragroup density on these scales. Strong
depolarisation observed from 2.3 to 0.96 GHz also supports the presence of a
significant amount of thermal gas within the lobes; although depolarisation
solely due to RM fluctuations in a foreground Faraday screen on scales smaller
than the beam cannot be ruled out. Considering the internal Faraday rotation
scenario, we find a thermal gas number density of ~10^{-4} cm^{-3} implying a
total gas mass of ~10^{10} M_solar within the lobes. The thermal pressure
associated with this gas (with temperature kT ~ 0.5 keV, obtained from recent
X-ray results) is approximately equal to the non-thermal pressure, indicating
that over the volume of the lobes, there is approximate equipartition between
the thermal gas, radio-emitting electrons and magnetic field (and potentially
any relativistic protons present).