1RXS J101015.9-311909 is a galaxy located at a redshift of z=0.14 hosting an
active nucleus belonging to the class of bright BL Lac objects. Observations at
high (HE, E > 100 MeV) and very high (VHE, E > 100 GeV) energies provide
insights into the origin of very energetic particles present in such sources
and the radiation processes at work. We report on results from VHE observations
performed between 2006-10 with H.E.S.S. H.E.S.S. data have been analysed with
enhanced analysis methods, making the detection of faint sources more
significant. VHE emission at a position coincident with 1RXS J101015.9-311909
is detected with H.E.S.S. for the first time. In a total good-quality livetime
of about 49 h, we measure 263 excess counts, corresponding to a significance of
7.1\sigma. The photon spectrum above 0.2 TeV can be described by a power-law
with a photon index of \Gamma\ = 3.08\pm0.42_{stat}\pm0.20_{sys}. The integral
flux above 0.2 TeV is about 0.8% of the flux of the Crab nebula and shows no
significant variability over the time reported. In addition, public Fermi/LAT
data are analysed to search for high energy emission from the source. The
Fermi/LAT HE emission is significant at 8.3\sigma\ in the chosen 25-month
dataset. UV and X-ray contemporaneous observations with the Swift satellite in
May 2007 are also reported, together with optical observations performed with
the ATOM telescope located at the H.E.S.S. site. Swift observations reveal an
absorbed X-ray flux of F_{0.3-7 keV} = 1.04^{+0.04}_{-0.05} \times 10^{-11}
erg.cm^{-2}.s^{-1} in the 0.3-7 keV range. Finally, all the available data are
used to study the source's multi-wavelength properties. The SED can be
reproduced using a simple one-zone SSC model with emission from a region with a
Doppler factor of 30 and a magnetic field between 0.025 and 0.16 G. These
parameters are similar to those obtained for other sources of this type.