We study domain-wall excitations in two-dimensional random-bond Ising spin
systems on a square lattice with side length L, subject to two different
continuous disorder distributions. In both cases an adjustable parameter allows
to tune the disorder so as to yield a transition from a spin-glass ordered
ground state to a ferromagnetic groundstate. We formulate an auxiliary
graph-theoretical problem in which domain walls are given by undirected
shortest paths with possibly negative distances. Due to the details of the
mapping, standard shortest-path algorithms cannot be applied. To solve such
shortest-path problems we have to apply minimum-weight perfect-matching
algorithms. We first locate the critical values of the disorder parameters,
where the ferromagnet to spin-glass transition occurs for the two types of the
disorder. For certain values of the disorder parameters close to the respective
critical point, we investigate the system size dependence of the width of the
the average domain-wall energy (~L^\theta) and the average domain-wall length
(~L^df). Performing a finite-size scaling analysis for systems with a side
length up to L=512, we find that both exponents remain constant in the
spin-glass phase, i.e. \theta ~- 0.28 and df~1.275. This is consistent with
conformal field theory, where it seems to be possible to relate the exponents
from the analysis of Stochastic Loewner evolutions (SLEs) via
df-1=3/[4(3+\theta)]. Finally, we characterize the transition in terms of
ferromagnetic clusters of spins that form, as one proceeds from spin-glass
ordered to ferromagnetic ground states.