Pulsar timing arrays (PTAs) are being used to search for very low frequency
gravitational waves. A gravitational wave signal appears in pulsar timing
residuals through two components: one independent of and one dependent on the
pulsar's distance, called the 'Earth term' (ET) and 'pulsar term' (PT),
respectively. The signal of a burst (or transient) gravitational wave source in
pulsars' residuals will in general have the Earth and pulsar terms separated by
times of the order of the time of flight from the pulsar to the Earth.
Therefore, both terms are not observable over a realistic observation span, but
the ETs observed in many pulsars should be correlated. We show that pairs (or
more) of pulsars can be aligned in such a way that the PTs caused by a source
at certain sky locations can arrive at Earth within a time window short enough
to be captured during a realistic observation span. We find that for the
pulsars within the International Pulsar Timing Array (IPTA) ~67 per cent of the
sky produces such alignments for pulsars terms separated by less than 10 years.
We compare estimates of the source event rate that would be required to observe
one signal in the IPTA if searching for the correlated ETs, or in searching via
the PTs, and find that event rates would need to be about two orders of
magnitude higher to observe an event with the PTs than the ETs. We also find
that an array of hundreds of thousands of pulsars would be required to achieve
similar numbers of observable events in PT or ET searches. This disfavours PTs
being used for all-sky searches, but they could potentially be used target
specific sources and be complementary to ET only searches.