The luminous Young Stellar Object (YSO) IRAS 07422-2001 is studied in the
infrared. We discover star forming activity in embedded clusters located in a
cloud detected at mid-IR wavelengths in emission. Multiple outflows are
discovered from these clusters in the H_2 ro-vibrational line at 2.122 micron.
We detect at least six outflows from the cluster associated with the IRAS
source and another outflow from a source located in a cluster detected ~2.7
arcmin NE of the IRAS source. Additional star formation is taking place in two
other cluster candidates within the cloud. Three of the YSOs in the cluster
associated with the IRAS source are detected at 11.2 micron at an angular
resolution of ~0.8 arcsec. We have a tentative detection of a circumstellar
disk in this cluster, seen as an extinction lane in the J and H-band images.
The spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of the dominant YSOs in the cluster
associated with the IRAS source and in the NE cluster are studied using
radiative transfer models and the properties of the YSOs are estimated. The YSO
associated with the IRAS source is probably in a very early Class I stage of
formation. The source identified as the dominant YSO in the NE cluster appears
to be older than the dominant YSO in the cluster associated with the IRAS
source, but its observed flux seems to be contaminated by extra emission, which
suggests the presence of a young source contributing to the SED at far-IR
wavelengths. The star formation observed in the field of IRAS 07422-2001
supports the idea of hierarchical formation of massive star clusters and the
growth of massive young stellar objects near the centres of multiple
sub-clusters in a star forming clump through competitive accretion.