Due to the thick boundary layers in hypersonic flows, the state of the
boundary layer significantly influences the whole flow field as well as surface
heat loads. Hence, for engineering applications the efficient numerical
prediction of laminar-to-turbulent transition is a challenging and important
task. Within the framework of the Reynolds averaged Navier-Stokes equations,
Langtry/Menter [1] proposed the -Re?t transition model using two transport
equations for the intermittency and Re?t combined with the Shear Stress
Transport turbulence model (SST) [2]. The transition model contains two
empirical correlations for onset and length of transition. Langtry/Menter [1]
designed and validated the correlations for the subsonic and transonic flow
regime. For our applications in the hypersonic flow regime, the development of
a new set of correlations proved necessary, even when using the same SST
turbulence model [3]. Within this paper, we propose a next step and couple the
transition model with the SSG/LRR-! Reynolds stress turbulence model [4] which
we found to be well suited for scramjet intake simulations. First, we
illustrate the necessary modifications of the Reynolds stress model and the
hypersonic in-house correlations using a hypersonic flat plate test case. Next,
the transition model is successfully validated for its use coupled to both
turbulence models using a hypersonic double ramp test case. Regardless of the
turbulence model, the transition model is able to correctly predict the
transition process compared to experimental data. In addition, we apply the
transition model combined with both turbulence models to three different fully
3D scramjet intake configurations which are experimentally investigated in wind
tunnel facilities. The agreement with the available experimental data is also
shown.