We employ an efficient numerical approach to simulate a stationary
distribution of test objects, which results from their gravitational scattering
on the four giant planets, with accounting for effects of mean motion
resonances. Using the observed distribution of the Kuiper belt objects, we
reconstruct, in the space of orbital coordinates, the distribution function
$n(a,e,i)$ for the population of minor bodies beyond Jupiter. We confirm that
thousands of large yet cold comets and Centaurs might be located between the
orbits of Jupiter and Neptune. Moreover, we find as an important result that
they are concentrated into four circumsolar belts, with a highly non-uniform
and well structured distribution of the objects. This huge yet unrevealed
population, with only a few of its representatives presently known, is expected
to have, like our simulations demonstrate, a rich resonant structure containing
both density maxima and gaps. The resonant structure is formed due to
gravitational perturbations, i.e. in a non-dissipative way. If plotted in the
($a,e,i$)-space of orbital coordinates, the belts contain gaps (including those
between resonant groups), quite similar to the Kirkwood gaps in the main
asteroid belt. An appreciable fraction of the test bodies reveals, for some
time, an accumulation near (rather than in) the resonances, both interior and
exterior, with the giant planets. An accompanying paper considers the
population simulated in this work as the major source of dust in the outer
Solar system. The simple but fast and efficient numerical approach employed in
this work would allow the reader for applying it to many other problems of
his/her interest.