We present a deep I,Z photometric survey covering a total area of 1.12
deg^{2} of the Sigma Orionis cluster (Icompl=22 and Zcompl=21.5mag). From I,
I-Z color-magnitude diagrams we have selected 153 candidates that fit the
previously known sequence of the cluster. Using J-band photometry, we find that
124 of the 151 candidates follow the previously known infrared photometric
sequence of the cluster and are probably members. We have studied the spatial
distribution of these candidates and found that there are objects located at
distances greater than 30 arcmin to the north and west of Sigma Orionis that
probably belong to different populations of the Orion's Belt. For the 102 bona
fide Sigma Orionis cluster member candidates, we find that the radial surface
density can be represented by a decreasing exponential function (sigma =
sigma_0 e^{-r/r_0}) with a central density of sigma_0=0.23+/-0.03
object/arcmin^{2} and a characteristic radius of r_0=9.5+/-0.7 arcmin. From a
statistical comparison with Monte Carlo simulations, we conclude that the
spatial distribution of the cluster member candidates is compatible with a
Poissonian distribution and, hence, they are not mainly forming aggregations or
sub-clustering. Using near-infrared JHK-band data from 2MASS and UKIDSS and
mid-infrared data from IRAC/Spitzer, we find that 5-9 % of the brown dwarf
candidates in the Sigma Orionis cluster have K-band excesses and 31+/-7 % of
them show mid-infrared excesses at wavelengths longer than 5.8 microns, which
are probably related to the presence of disks. We have also calculated the
initial mass spectrum (dN/dm) of Sigma Orionis from very low mass stars (0.10
Msol) to the deuterium-burning mass limit (0.012-0.013 Msol). This is a rising
function toward lower masses and can be represented by a power-law distribution
(dN/dm = m^{-alpha}) with an exponent alpha of 0.7+/-0.3 for an age of 3 Myr.