The programme Earth AntineutRino TomograpHy (EARTH) proposes to build ten
underground facilities each hosting a telescope. Each telescope consists of
many detector modules, to map the radiogenic heat sources deep in the interior
of the Earth by utilising direction sensitive geoneutrino detection. Recent
hypotheses target the core-mantle boundary (CMB) as a major source of natural
radionuclides and therefore of radiogenic heat. A typical scale of the
processes that take place at the CMB is about 200km. To observe these processes
from the surface requires an angular resolution of about 3 degrees. EARTH aims
at creating a high-resolution 3D-map of the radiogenic heat sources in the
interior of the Earth. It will thereby contribute to a better understanding of
a number of geophysical phenomena observed at the surface of the Earth. This
condition requires a completely different approach from the monolithic detector
systems as e.g. KamLAND.
  This paper presents, for such telescopes, the boundary conditions set by
physics, the estimated count rates, and the first initial results from Monte
Carlo simulations and laboratory experiments. The Monte Carlo simulations
indicate that the large volume telescope should consist of detector modules
each comprising a very large number of detector units, with a cross section of
roughly a few square centimetres. The signature of an antineutrino event will
be a double pulse event. One pulse arises from the slowing down of the emitted
positron, the other from the neutron capture. In laboratory experiments small
sized, 10B-loaded liquid scintillation detectors were investigated as
candidates for direction sensitive, low-energy antineutrino detection.