Scholars have engaged in a longstanding debate about how best to measure
residential segregation, and scores of indexes have been developed in response.
However, the methods commonly employed are aspatial -- they summarize the
characteristics of segregation patterns, such as concentration or clustering,
but ignore their spatial features, such as how neighborhoods are spatially
arranged. As a consequence, many studies find the same level of segregation
whether a city has a patchwork of racial and ethnic enclaves, or is divided
into large areas with little or no diversity. New methods have been developed
to capture the spatial proximity of neighborhoods and the geographic scale of
clustering. However, they lack a realistic measure of distance and do not
accurately represent how segregation varies within cities. In this paper, I
introduce a new method for studying the spatial context of residential
segregation. I measure the distance between locations along city roads rather
than in a straight line. Road distance is more realistic, because it captures
the excess distance imposed by spatial boundaries, such as rivers and train
tracks. I demonstrate the contribution of my approach using a series of
simulated cities. I show that spatial methods reveal differences in the
geographic scale of segregation, even for cities with the same level of
aspatial segregation. I compare segregation measured with straight line and
road distance to examine the impact of boundaries on overall and local
segregation. This research offers the first quantitative method for
systematically studying how spatial boundaries structure patterns of
residential segregation across cities and over time. It overcomes the
fundamental measurement issues that have limited previous approaches, and
captures the spatial relationships and structured patterns that we commonly
recognize as segregation.