Power transmission in one-dimensional nonlinear magnetic metamaterials driven
at one end is investigated numerically and analytically in a wide frequency
range. The nonlinear magnetic metamaterials are composed of varactor-loaded
split-ring resonators which are coupled magnetically through their mutual
inductances, forming thus a magnetoiductive transmission line. In the linear
limit, significant power transmission along the array only appears for
frequencies inside the linear magnetoinductive wave band. We present
analytical, closed form solutions for the magnetoinductive waves transmitting
the power in this regime, and their discrete frequency dispersion. When
nonlinearity is important, more frequency bands with significant power
transmission along the array may appear. In the equivalent circuit picture, the
nonlinear magnetoiductive transmission line driven at one end by a relatively
weak electromotive force, can be modeled by coupled
resistive-inductive-capacitive (RLC) circuits with voltage-dependent
capacitance. Extended numerical simulations reveal that power transmission
along the array is also possible in other than the linear frequency bands,
which are located close to the nonlinear resonances of a single nonlinear RLC
circuit. Moreover, the effectiveness of power transmission for driving
frequencies in the nonlinear bands is comparable to that in the linear band.
Power transmission in the nonlinear bands occurs through the linear modes of
the system, and it is closely related to the instability of a mode that is
localized at the driven site.