With the advent of GPS enabled smartphones, an increasing number of users is
actively sharing their location through a variety of applications and services.
Along with the continuing growth of Location-Based Social Networks (LBSNs),
security experts have increasingly warned the public of the dangers of exposing
sensitive information such as personal location data. Most importantly, in
addition to the geographical coordinates of the user's location, LBSNs allow
easy access to an additional set of characteristics of that location, such as
the venue type or popularity.
  In this paper, we investigate the role of location semantics in the
identification of LBSN users. We simulate a scenario in which the attacker's
goal is to reveal the identity of a set of LBSN users by observing their
check-in activity. We then propose to answer the following question: what are
the types of venues that a malicious user has to monitor to maximize the
probability of success? Conversely, when should a user decide whether to make
his/her check-in to a location public or not? We perform our study on more than
1 million check-ins distributed over 17 urban regions of the United States. Our
analysis shows that different types of venues display different discriminative
power in terms of user identity, with most of the venues in the "Residence"
category providing the highest re-identification success across the urban
regions. Interestingly, we also find that users with a high entropy of their
check-ins distribution are not necessarily the hardest to identify, suggesting
that it is the collective behaviour of the users' population that determines
the complexity of the identification task, rather than the individual
behaviour.