In this paper, we discuss the problem of tracking the locations of an
arbitrary number of agents moving in a bounded region. Assuming that each agent
knows its motion precisely, and also its distances and angles to the nodes in
its communication radius, we provide a \emph{geometric approach} to continually
update the distances and angles even when the agents move out of range. Based
on this approach, we provide a simple \emph{linear} update to track the
locations of an arbitrary number of mobile agents when they follow some
convexity in their deployment and motion, given at least $m+1$ agents whose
locations are always known (hereinafter referred to as anchors) in
${\mathbb{R}}^{m}$. More precisely, this linear update requires the agents to
intermittently move inside the convex hull of the anchors.
  Since the agents are mobile, they may move inside and outside of the convex
hull formed by the anchors and the above convexity in the deployment is not
necessarily satisfied. To deal with such issues, we introduce the notion of a
\emph{virtual convex hull} with the help of the aforementioned geometric
approach. Based on the virtual hulls, we provide another algorithm where no
agent is required to lie in any convex hull at any given time. Each agent only
keeps track of a virtual convex hull, which may not physically exist, of other
nodes (agents and/or anchors), and updates its location with respect to its
neighbors in the virtual hull. We show that the corresponding localization
algorithm can be abstracted as a Linear Time-Varying (LTV) system that
asymptotically tracks the true locations of the agents. Finally, we show that
exactly one anchor suffices to track the locations of an arbitrary number of
mobile agents in $\mathbb{R}^m,m\geq 1$, using the approach described in this
paper.