The detection of olivine on Vesta is interesting because it may provide
critical insights into planetary differentiation early in our Solar System's
history. Ground-based and Hubble Space Telescope (HST) observations of asteroid
(4) Vesta have suggested the presence of olivine on the surface. These
observations were reinforced by the discovery of olivine-rich HED meteorites
from Vesta in recent years. However, analysis of data from NASA's Dawn
spacecraft has shown that this olivine-bearing unit is actually impact melt in
the ejecta of Oppia crater. The lack of widespread mantle olivine, exposed
during the formation of the 19 km deep Rheasilvia basin on Vesta's South Pole,
further complicated this picture. Ammannito et al., (2013a) reported the
discovery of local scale olivine-rich units in the form of excavated material
from the mantle using the Visible and InfraRed spectrometer (VIR) on Dawn. Here
we explore alternative sources for the olivine in the northern hemisphere of
Vesta by reanalyzing the data from the VIR instrument using laboratory spectral
measurements of meteorites. We suggest that these olivine exposures could be
explained by the delivery of olivine-rich exogenic material. Based on our
spectral band parameters analysis, the lack of correlation between the location
of these olivine-rich terrains and possible mantle-excavating events, and
supported by observations of HED meteorites, we propose that a probable source
for olivine seen in the northern hemisphere are remnants of impactors made of
olivine-rich meteorites. Best match suggests these units are HED material mixed
with either ordinary chondrites, or with some olivine-dominated meteorites such
as R-chondrites.