The contribution of plumes to the solar wind has been subject to hot debate
in the past decades. The EUV Imaging Spectrometer (EIS) on board Hinode
provides a unique means to deduce outflow velocities at coronal heights via
direct Doppler shift measurements of coronal emission lines. Such direct
Doppler shift measurements were not possible with previous spectrometers. We
measure the outflow velocity at coronal heights in several on-disk
long-duration plumes, which are located in coronal holes and show significant
blue shifts throughout the entire observational period. In one case, a plume is
measured 4 hours apart. The deduced outflow velocities are consistent,
suggesting that the flows are quasi-steady. Furthermore, we provide an outflow
velocity profile along the plumes, finding that the velocity corrected for the
line-of-sight effect can reach 10 km s$^{-1}$ at 1.02 $R_{\odot}$, 15 km
s$^{-1}$ at 1.03 $R_{\odot}$, and 25 km s$^{-1}$ at 1.05 $R_{\odot}$. This
clear signature of steady acceleration, combined with the fact that there is no
significant blue shift at the base of plumes, provides an important constraint
on plume models. At the height of 1.03 $R_{\odot}$, EIS also deduced a density
of 1.3$\times10^{8}$ cm$^{-3}$, resulting in a proton flux of about
4.2$\times10^9$ cm$^{-2}$s$^{-1}$ scaled to 1AU, which is an order of magnitude
higher than the proton input to a typical solar wind if a radial expansion is
assumed. This suggests that, coronal hole plumes may be an important source of
the solar wind.