Rigidity Percolation with g degrees of freedom per site is analyzed on
randomly diluted Erdos-Renyi graphs with average connectivity gamma, in the
presence of a field h. In the (gamma,h) plane, the rigid and flexible phases
are separated by a line of first-order transitions whose location is determined
exactly. This line ends at a critical point with classical critical exponents.
Analytic expressions are given for the densities n_f of uncanceled degrees of
freedom and gamma_r of redundant bonds. Upon crossing the coexistence line, n_f
and gamma_r are continuous, although their first derivatives are discontinuous.
We extend, for the case of nonzero field, a recently proposed hypothesis,
namely that the density of uncanceled degrees of freedom is a ``free energy''
for Rigidity Percolation. Analytic expressions are obtained for the energy,
entropy, and specific heat. Some analogies with a liquid-vapor transition are
discussed. Particularizing to zero field, we find that the existence of a
(g+1)-core is a necessary condition for rigidity percolation with g degrees of
freedom. At the transition point gamma_c, Maxwell counting of degrees of
freedom is exact on the rigid cluster and on the (g+1)-rigid-core, i.e. the
average coordination of these subgraphs is exactly 2g, although gamma_r, the
average coordination of the whole system, is smaller than 2g. gamma_c is found
to converge to 2g for large g, i.e. in this limit Maxwell counting is exact
globally as well. This paper is dedicated to Dietrich Stauffer, on the occasion
of his 60th birthday.