Recently, using a numerical surface cooling approach, we have shown that
highly energetic discrete breathers (DB) can form in the stiffest parts of
nonlinear network models of large protein structures. In the present study,
using an analytical approach, we extend our previous results to low-energy
discrete breathers as well as to smaller proteins
  We confirm and further scrutinize the striking site selectiveness of energy
localisation in the presence of spatial disorder. In particular, we find that,
as a sheer consequence of disorder, a non-zero energy gap for exciting a DB at
a given site either exists or not. Remarkably, in the former case, the gaps
arise as result of the impossibility of exciting small-amplitude modes in the
first place. On the contrary, in the latter case, a small subset of linear edge
modes act as accumulation points, whereby DBs can be continued to arbitrary
small energies, while unavoidably approaching one of such normal modes. In
particular, the case of the edge mode seems peculiar, its dispersion relation
being simple and little system-dependent.
  Concerning the structure-dynamics relationship, we find that the regions of
protein structures where DBs form easily (zero or small gaps) are unfailingly
the most highly connected ones, also characterized by weak local clustering.
Remarkably, a systematic analysis on a large database of enzyme structures
reveals that amino-acid residues involved in enzymatic activity tend to be
located in such regions. This finding reinforces the idea that localised modes
of nonlinear origin may play an important biological role, e.g. by providing a
ready channel for energy storage and/or contributing to lower energy barriers
of chemical reactions.