The Extreme-Ultraviolet Normal-Incidence Spectrograph sounding-rocket payload
was flown on 2006 April 12 (EUNIS-06), carrying two independent imaging
spectrographs covering wave bands of 300-370 A in first order and 170-205 A in
second order, respectively. The absolute radiometric response of the EUNIS-06
long-wavelength (LW) channel was directly measured in the same facility used to
calibrate CDS prior to the SOHO launch. Because the absolute calibration of the
short-wavelength (SW) channel could not be obtained from the same lab
configuration, we here present a technique to derive it using a combination of
solar LW spectra and density- and temperature-insensitive line intensity
ratios. The first step in this procedure is to use the coordinated, cospatial
EUNIS and SOHO/CDS spectra to carry out an intensity calibration update for the
CDS NIS-1 waveband, which shows that its efficiency has decreased by a factor
about 1.7 compared to that of the previously implemented calibration. Then,
theoretical insensitive line ratios obtained from CHIANTI allow us to determine
absolute intensities of emission lines within the EUNIS SW bandpass from those
of cospatial CDS/NIS-1 spectra after the EUNIS LW calibration correction. A
total of 12 ratios derived from intensities of 5 CDS and 12 SW emission lines
from Fe Fe X - Fe XIII yield an instrumental response curve for the EUNIS-06 SW
channel that matches well to a relative calibration which relied on combining
measurements of individual optical components. Taking into account all
potential sources of error, we estimate that the EUNIS-06 SW absolute
calibration is accurate to about 20%.