We present two-dimensional slab-jet simulations of jets in inhomogeneous
media consisting of a tenuous hot medium populated with a small filling factor
by warm, dense clouds. The simulations are relevant to the structure and
dynamics of sources such as Gigahertz Peak Spectrum and Compact Steep Spectrum
radio galaxies, High Redshift Radio Galaxies and radio galaxies in cooling
flows. The jets are disrupted to a degree depending upon the filling factor of
the clouds. With a small filling factor, the jet retains some forward momentum
but also forms a halo or bubble around the source. At larger filling factors
channels are formed in the cloud distribution through which the jet plasma
flows and a hierarchical structure consisting of nested lobes and an outer
enclosing bubble results. We suggest that the CSS quasar 3C48 is an example of
a low filling factor jet - interstellar medium interaction whilst M87 may be an
example of the higher filling factor type of interaction. Jet disruption occurs
primarily as a result of Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities driven by turbulence in
the radio cocoon not through direct jet-cloud interactions, although there are
some examples of these. In all radio galaxies whose morphology may be the
result of jet interactions with an inhomogeneous interstellar medium we expect
that the dense clouds will be optically observable as a result of radiative
shocks driven by the pressure of the radio cocoon. We also expect that the
radio galaxies will possess faint haloes of radio emitting material well beyond
the observable jet structure.