We challenge the widely held belief that the cosmological principle is an
obvious consequence of the observed isotropy of the cosmic microwave background
radiation, combined with the Copernican principle. We perform a detailed
analysis of a class of inhomogeneous perfect fluid cosmologies admitting an
isotropic radiation field, with a view to assessing their viability as models
of the real universe. These spacetimes are distinguished from FLRW universes by
the presence of inhomogeneous pressure, which results in an acceleration of the
fundamental observers. We examine their physical, geometrical and observational
characteristics for all observer positions in the spacetimes. To this end, we
derive exact, analytic expressions for the distance-redshift relations and
anisotropies for any observer, and compare their predictions with available
observational constraints. The isotropy constraints derived from `local'
observations are also considered, qualitatively. A crucial aspect of this work
is the application of the Copernican principle: for a specific model to be
acceptable we demand that it must be consistent with current observational
constraints (especially anisotropy constraints) for all observer locations. The
most important results of the paper are presented as exclusion plots in the 2-D
parameter space of the models. We show that there is a region of parameter
space not ruled out by the constraints we consider and containing models that
are significantly inhomogeneous. It follows immediately from this that the
cosmological principle cannot be assumed to hold on the basis of present
observational constraints.