We have identified 17 A-type stars in the Galactic Plane that have mid-IR
excesses at 8 micron. From the observed colors in the (r'-H_alpha)-(r'-i')
plane, we first identified 23050 early A-type main sequence (MS) star
candidates in the Isaac Newton Photometric H-Alpha Survey (IPHAS) point source
database that are located in Spitzer GLIMPSE Galactic Plane fields. Imposing
the requirement that they be detected in all seven 2MASS and IRAC bands led to
a sample of 2692 candidate A-type stars with fully sampled 0.6 to 8 micron
SEDs. Optical classification spectra of 18 of the IPHAS candidate A-type MS
stars showed that all but one could be well fitted using main sequence A-type
templates, with the other being an A-type supergiant. Out of the 2692 A-type
candidates 17 (0.6%) were found to have 8-micron excesses above the expected
photospheric values. Taking into account non-A-Type contamination estimates,
the 8-micron excess fraction is adjusted to ~0.7%. The distances to these
sources range from 0.7-2.5 kpc. Only 10 out of the 17 excess stars had been
covered by Spitzer MIPSGAL survey fields, of which 5 had detectable excesses at
24 micron. For sources with excesses detected in at least two mid-IR wavelength
bands, blackbody fits to the excess SEDs yielded temperatures ranging from 270
to 650 K, and bolometric luminosity ratios L_IR/L* from
2.2x10^{-3}-1.9x10^{-2}, with a mean value of 7.9x10^{-3} (these bolometric
luminosities are lower limits as cold dust is not detectable by this survey).
Both the presence of mid-IR excesses and the derived bolometric luminosity
ratios are consistent with many of these systems being in the planet-building
transition phase between the early protoplanetary disk phase and the later
debris disk phase.