We present interferometric imaging at 33 GHz of the Corona Borealis
supercluster, using the extended configuration of the Very Small Array. A total
area of 24 deg^2 has been imaged, with an angular resolution of 11 arcmin and a
sensitivity of 12 mJy/beam. The aim of these observations is to search for
Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) detections from known clusters of galaxies in this
supercluster and for a possible extended SZ decrement due to diffuse warm/hot
gas in the intercluster medium. We measure negative flux values in the
positions of the ten richest clusters in the region. Collectively, this implies
a 3.0-sigma detection of the SZ effect. In the clusters A2061 and A2065 we find
decrements of approximately 2-sigma. Our main result is the detection of two
strong and resolved negative features at -70+-12 mJy/beam (-157+-27 microK) and
-103+-10 mJy/beam (-230+-23 microK), respectively, located in a region with no
known clusters, near the centre of the supercluster. We discuss their possible
origins in terms of primordial CMB anisotropies and/or SZ signals related to
either unknown clusters or to a diffuse extended warm/hot gas distribution. Our
analyses have revealed that a primordial CMB fluctuation is a plausible
explanation for the weaker feature (probability of 37.82%). For the stronger
one, neither primordial CMB (probability of 0.33%) nor SZ can account alone for
its size and total intensity. The most reasonable explanation, then, is a
combination of both primordial CMB and SZ signal. Finally, we explore what
characteristics would be required for a filamentary structure consisting of
warm/hot diffuse gas in order to produce a significant contribution to such a
spot taking into account the constraints set by X-ray data.