We study the RKKY interaction between two magnetic impurities located on same
layer (intralayer case) or on different layers (interlayer case) in undoped
bilayer graphene in the four-bands model, by directly calculating the Green
functions in the eigenvalues and eigenvectors representation. Our results show
that both intra- and interlayer RKKY interactions between two magnetic
impurities located on same (opposite) sublattice are always ferromagnetic
(antiferromagnetic). Furthermore we find unusual long-distance decay of the
RKKY interaction in BLG. The intralyer RKKY interactions between two magnetic
impurities located on same sublattice, $J^{A_{n}A_{n}}(\mathbf{R})$ and
$J^{B_{n}B_{n}}(\mathbf{R)}$, decay closely as $1/R^{6}$ and $1/R^{2}$ at large
impurity distances respectively, but when they are located on opposite
sublattices the RKKY interactions exhibit $1/R^{4}$ decays approximately. In
the interlayer case, the RKKY interactions between two magnetic impurities
located on same sublattice show a decay close to $1/R^{4}$ at large impurity
distances, but if two magnetic impurities be on opposite sublattices the RKKY
interactions, $J^{A_{1}B_{2}}(\mathbf{R})$ and $J^{B_{1}A_{2}}(\mathbf{R)}$,
decay closely as $1/R^{6}$ and $1/R^{2}$ respectively. Both intra- and
interlayer RKKY interactions have anisotropic oscillatory factors which for
intralayer case is equal to that for single layer graphene. Our results at weak
and strong interlayer coupling limits reduce to the RKKY interaction of SLG and
that of BLG in the two-bands approximation respectively.