In this paper, we propose a new electromagnetic (EM) GL double layered cloak.
The GL double layered cloak is consist of two sphere annular layers, $R_1 \le r
\le R_2$ and $R_2 \le r \le R_3$. Two type cloak materials are proposed and
installed in the each layer, respectively. The outer layer cloak of the GL
double layered cloak has the invisible function, the inner layer cloak has
fully absorption function. The GL double layered metamaterials are weak
degenerative and weak dispersive. When the source is located outside of the GL
double layered cloak, the excited EM wave field propagation outside of the
double layered cloak is as same as in free space and never be disturbed by the
cloak; also, the exterior EM wave can not penetrate into the inner layer and
concealment. When local sources are located inside of the GL double cloaked
concealment with the normal EM materials, the excited EM wave is propagating
under Maxwell equation governing, it is complete absorbed by the inner layer
cloak of GL double cloak and never propagate to outside of the inner layer of
the GL cloak, moreover, the EM wavefield in concealment never be disturbed by
the cloak. The GL doubled layered cloak is a robust cloak and has complete and
sufficient invisibility functions. Its concealment is the normal
electromagnetic environment. Our EM GL double layered cloak is different from
conventional common cloak. The 3D GL EM modeling simulations for the double
layered cloak are presented. The GL method is an effective physical simulation
method and is fully different from the conventional methods. It has double
abilities of the theoretical analysis and numerical simulations to study the
cloak metamaterials and wide materials and field scattering problem in physical
sciences.