Conventional speaker localization algorithms, based merely on the received
microphone signals, are often sensitive to adverse conditions, such as: high
reverberation or low signal to noise ratio (SNR). In some scenarios, e.g. in
meeting rooms or cars, it can be assumed that the source position is confined
to a predefined area, and the acoustic parameters of the environment are
approximately fixed. Such scenarios give rise to the assumption that the
acoustic samples from the region of interest have a distinct geometrical
structure. In this paper, we show that the high dimensional acoustic samples
indeed lie on a low dimensional manifold and can be embedded into a low
dimensional space. Motivated by this result, we propose a semi-supervised
source localization algorithm which recovers the inverse mapping between the
acoustic samples and their corresponding locations. The idea is to use an
optimization framework based on manifold regularization, that involves
smoothness constraints of possible solutions with respect to the manifold. The
proposed algorithm, termed Manifold Regularization for Localization (MRL), is
implemented in an adaptive manner. The initialization is conducted with only
few labelled samples attached with their respective source locations, and then
the system is gradually adapted as new unlabelled samples (with unknown source
locations) are received. Experimental results show superior localization
performance when compared with a recently presented algorithm based on a
manifold learning approach and with the generalized cross-correlation (GCC)
algorithm as a baseline.