In recent years, a lot of work was done that has revealed some very
interesting properties of neutron stars. One can relate the first multipole
moments of a neutron star, or quantities that can be derived from them, with
relations that are independent of the equation of state. This is a very
significant result that has great implications for the description of neutron
stars and in particular for the description of the spacetime around them.
Additionally, it was recently shown that there is a four parameter analytic
spacetime, known as two-soliton, which can accurately capture the properties of
the geometry around neutron stars. This allows for the possibility of
describing in a unified formalism the astrophysically relevant properties of
the spacetime around a neutron star independently of the particulars of the
equation of state for the matter of the star. In the present work we
investigate properties such as the location of the innermost stable circular
orbit $R_{ISCO}$, the various frequencies of perturbed circular equatorial
geodesics, the efficiency of an accretion disk, its temperature distribution,
and other properties associated to the emitted radiation from the disc, in a
way independent of any choice of an equation of state for the neutron star.
Furthermore, we provide proof of principle that if one were to measure the
right combinations of pairs of these properties, with the additional knowledge
of the mass of the neutron star, one could determine the equation of state of
the star.