We analyze single-stellar-population (SSP) equivalent parameters for 50 local
elliptical galaxies as a function of their structural parameters. These
galaxies fill a two-dimensional plane in the four-dimensional space of [Z/H],
log t, log $\sigma$, and [E/Fe]. SSP age and velocity dispersion can be taken
as the two independent parameters that specify a galaxy's location in this
``hyperplane.'' The hyperplane can be decomposed into two sub-relations: (1) a
``Z-plane,'' in which [Z/H] is a linear function of log $\sigma$ and log t; and
(2) a relation between [E/Fe] and $\sigma$ in which [E/Fe] is larger in
high-$\sigma$ galaxies. Cluster and field ellipticals follow the same
hyperplane, but their ($\sigma$,t) distributions within it differ. Nearly all
cluster galaxies are old; the field ellipticals span a large range in SSP age.
The tight Mg--$\sigma$ relations of these ellipticals can be understood as
two-dimensional projections of the metallicity hyperplane showing it edge-on;
the tightness of these relations does not necessarily imply a narrow range of
ages at fixed $\sigma$. The relation between [E/Fe] and $\sigma$ is consistent
with a higher effective yield of Type II SNe elements at higher $\sigma$. The
Z-plane is harder to explain and may be a powerful clue to star formation in
elliptical galaxies if it proves to be general. Present data favor a
``frosting'' model in which low apparent SSP ages are produced by adding a
small frosting of younger stars to an older base population. If the frosting
abundances are close to or slightly greater than the base population, simple
two-component models run along lines of constant $\sigma$ in the Z-plane, as
required. This favors star formation from well-mixed pre-enriched gas rather
than unmixed low-metallicity gas from an accreted object. (Abridged)