We describe an ultraviolet spectroscopic survey of interstellar high-velocity
cloud (HVC) absorption in the strong 1206.500 Angstrom line of Si III using the
Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph aboard the Hubble Space Telescope. Because
the Si III line is 4-5 times stronger than O VI 1031.926, it provides a
sensitive probe of ionized gas down to column densities N(Si III) = 5x10^11
cm^-2 at Si III equivalent width 10 mA. We detect high-velocity Si III over
(91+/-4)% of the sky (53 of 58 sight lines), and 59% of the HVCs show negative
LSR velocities. Per sight line, the mean HVC column density is <log N(SiIII)> =
13.19 +/- 0.45, while the mean for all 90 velocity components is 12.92 +/-
0.46. Lower limits due to Si III line saturation are included in this average,
so the actual mean/median values are even higher. The Si III appears to trace
an extensive ionized component of Galactic halo gas at temperatures 10^4.0 K to
10^4.5 K indicative of a cooling flow. Photoionization models suggest that
typical Si III absorbers with 12.5 < log N(Si III) < 13.5 have total hydrogen
column densities N(H) = 10^18 to 10^19 cm^-2 for gas of hydrogen density n(H) =
0.1 cm^(-3) and 10% solar metallicity. With typical neutral fractions
N(HI)/N(H) = 0.01, these HVCs may elude even long duration 21-cm observations
at Arecibo, the EVLA, and other radio facilities. However, if Si III is
associated with higher density gas, n(H) > 1 cm^(-3), the corresponding neutral
hydrogen could be visible in deep observations. This reservoir of ionized gas
may contain 10^8 M_sun and produce a mass infall rate of 1 M_sun/yr to the
Galactic disk.