We present analysis of the large sample of variable red giants from the Large
and Small Magellanic Clouds detected during the second phase of the Optical
Gravitational Lensing Experiment (OGLE-II) and supplemented with OGLE-III
photometry. Comparing pulsation properties of detected objects we find that
they constitute two groups with clearly distinct features. In this paper we
analyze in detail small amplitude variable red giants (about 15400 and 3000
objects in the LMC and SMC, respectively). The vast majority of these objects
are multi-periodic. At least 30% of them exhibit two modes closely spaced in
the power spectrum, what likely indicates non-radial oscillations. About 50%
exhibit additional so called Long Secondary Period.
  To distinguish between AGB and RGB red giants we compare PL diagrams of
multi-periodic red giants located above and below the tip of the Red Giant
Branch (TRGB). The giants above the TRGB form four parallel ridges in the PL
diagram. Among much more numerous sample of giants below the TRGB we find
objects located on the low luminosity extensions of these ridges, but most of
the stars are located on the ridges slightly shifted in logP. We interpret the
former as the second ascent AGB red giants and the latter as the first ascent
RGB objects. Thus, we empirically show that the pulsating red giants fainter
than the TRGB are a mixture of RGB and AGB giants.
  Finally, we compare the Petersen diagrams of the LMC, SMC and Galactic bulge
variable red giants and find that they are basically identical indicating that
the variable red giants in all these different stellar environments share
similar pulsation properties.