The flat spectrum radio quasar (FSRQ) PKS 0208-512 underwent three outbursts
at the optical-near-infrared (OIR) wavelengths during 2008-2011. The second OIR
outburst did not have a gamma-ray counterpart despite being comparable in
brightness and temporal extent to the other two. We model the time variable
spectral energy distribution of PKS 0208-512 during those three flaring
episodes with leptonic models to investigate the physical mechanism that can
produce this anomalous flare. We show that the redder-when-brighter spectral
trend in the OIR bands can be explained by the superposition of a fixed thermal
component from the accretion disk and a synchrotron component of fixed shape
and variable normalization. We estimate the accretion disk luminosity at L_d ~8
X 10^45 erg/s. Using the observed variability timescale in the OIR band
t_{var,obs} ~2 d and the X-ray luminosity L_X ~3.5 X 10^45 erg/s, we constrain
the location of the emitting region to distance scales that are broadly
comparable with the dusty torus. We show that variations in the Compton
dominance parameter by a factor of ~4 --- which may result in the anomalous
outburst --- can be relatively easily accounted for by moderate variations in
the magnetic field strength or the location of the emission region. Since such
variations appear to be rare among FSRQs, we propose that most gamma-ray/OIR
flares in these objects are produced in jet regions where the magnetic field
and external photon fields vary similarly with distance along the jet, e.g.,
u_B ~u_ext ~r^{-2}.