The distribution of RR Lyrae stars (RRLS) in the inner Large Magellanic Cloud
(LMC), and the structure of the halo of the LMC delineated by these stars are
studied here. RRLS identified by the OGLE II survey are used to estimate their
number density distribution in the bar region of the LMC. To find their
location, I estimated the scale-height of their distribution in the LMC using
extinction corrected average magnitudes of ab type stars. The density is found
to vary differently along and across the bar of the LMC, and the difference is
found to be statistically significant. The density distribution is found to be
elongated like the LMC bar and the position angle (PA) of the elongation is
estimated to be 112.$^o$5 $\pm$ 15.$^o$3. This value of PA is found to be same
as the PA$_{maj}$ of the bar, within the errors, estimated using red clump
stars and giants. The ellipticity of their density distribution is estimated to
be $\sim$ 0.5, very similar to the ellipticity of the bar, estimated from
giants. The above results show that majority of the population of RRLS in the
central region of the LMC are found to have the signature of the bar. This
result could mean that most of these stars are located in the disk, considering
the bar as a disk feature. On the other hand, their scale-height was found to
be 3.0$\pm 0.9$ kpc. This indicates that RRLS are located in the halo and not
in the disk. Thus these stars in the inner LMC have halo-like location and a
disk-like density distribution. I discuss some possible formation scenarios for
this puzzling combination.