Twisted magnetic fields should be ubiquitous in the solar corona. The
magnetic energy contained in such twisted fields can be released during solar
flares and other explosive phenomena. Reconnection in helical magnetic coronal
loops results in plasma heating and particle acceleration distributed within a
large volume, including the lower coronal and chromospheric sections of the
loops, and can be a viable alternative to the standard flare model, where
particles are accelerated only in a small volume located in the upper corona.
The goal of this study is to investigate the observational signatures of plasma
heating and particle acceleration in kink-unstable twisted coronal loops using
combination of MHD simulations and test-particle methods. The simulations
describe the development of kink instability and magnetic reconnection in
twisted coronal loops using resistive compressible MHD, and incorporate
atmospheric stratification and large-scale loop curvature. The resulting
distributions of hot plasma let us estimate thermal X-ray emission intensities.
Test-particle trajectories combined with the density distributions let us
deduce synthetic hard X-ray bremsstrahlung intensities. Our simulations
emphasise that the geometry of the emission patterns produced in flaring
twisted coronal loops can differ from the actual geometry of the underlying
magnetic fields. The twist angles revealed by the soft X-ray thermal emission
(SXR) are lower than the field-line twist present at the onset of the
kink-instability. Hard X-ray (HXR) emission due to the collisions of energetic
electrons with the stratified background are concentrated at the loop
foot-points, even though the electrons are accelerated everywhere within the
coronal volume of the loop. The HXR light-curve are approximately proportional
to the temporal derivative of the SXR light-curve.