We have analyzed high-quality single pulse data of PSR B0329+54 at 325 MHz
and 606 MHz to study the structure of the emission beam. Using the
window-threshold technique, which is suitable for detecting weak emission
components, we have detected 4 additional emission components in the pulse
window. Three of these are new components and the fourth is a confirmation of a
recently proposed component. Hence PSR B0329+54 is now known to have 9 emission
components - the highest among all known pulsars. The distribution of the pulse
components around the central core component indicates that the emission beam
consists of four nested cones. The asymmetry in the location of the conal
components in the leading versus trailing parts of the profile is interpreted
as being due to aberration and retardation in the pulsar magnetosphere. These
measurements allow us to determine the precise location of the 4 conal rings of
emission. We find that the successive outer cones are emitted at higher
altitudes in the magnetosphere. Further, for any given cone, the emission
height at the lower frequency is found to be more than that at the higher
frequency. The inferred heights range from ~160 km to ~1150 km. The set of
``active'' field lines, from which most of the conal radiation appears to
originate, are found to be confined to a region located within ~0.5 to ~0.6 of
the polar cap radius. We discuss the implications of our new findings on our
understanding of the pulsar emission geometry and its impact on the emission
mechanisms.