Offloading of cellular traffic through a wireless local area network (WLAN)
is theoretically evaluated. First, empirical data sets of the locations of WLAN
internet access points are analyzed and an inhomogeneous Poisson process
consisting of high, normal, and low density regions is proposed as a spatial
point process model for these configurations. Second, performance metrics, such
as mean available bandwidth for a user and the number of vertical handovers,
are evaluated for the proposed model through geometric analysis. Explicit
formulas are derived for the metrics, although they depend on many parameters
such as the number of WLAN access points, the shape of each WLAN coverage
region, the location of each WLAN access point, the available bandwidth (bps)
of the WLAN, and the shape and available bandwidth (bps) of each subregion
identified by the channel quality indicator in a cell of the cellular network.
Explicit formulas strongly suggest that the bandwidth a user experiences does
not depend on the user mobility. This is because the bandwidth available by a
user who does not move and that available by a user who moves are the same or
approximately the same as a probabilistic distribution. Numerical examples show
that parameters, such as the size of regions where placement of WLAN access
points is not allowed and the mean density of WLANs in high density regions,
have a large impact on performance metrics. In particular, a homogeneous
Poisson process model as the WLAN access point location model largely
overestimates the mean available bandwidth for a user and the number of
vertical handovers. The overestimated mean available bandwidth is, for example,
about 50% in a certain condition.