Approximately 10-20% of all Kuiper belt objects (KBOs) occupy mean-motion
resonances with Neptune. This dynamical configuration likely resulted from
resonance capture as Neptune migrated outward during the late stages of planet
formation. The details of Neptune's planetesimal-driven migration, including
its radial extent and the concurrent eccentricity evolution of the planet, are
the subject of considerable debate. Two qualitatively different proposals for
resonance capture have been proposed--migration-induced capture driven by
smooth outward evolution of Neptune's orbit and chaotic capture driven by
damping of the planet's eccentricity near its current semi-major axis. We
demonstrate that the distribution of comparable-mass, wide-separation binaries
occupying resonant orbits can differentiate between these two scenarios. If
migration-induced capture occurred, this fraction records information about the
formation locations of different populations of KBOs. Chaotic capture, in
contrast, randomizes the orbits of bodies as they are placed in resonance. In
particular, migration-induced capture produces the following signatures. The
2:1 resonance should contain a dynamically cold component, with inclinations
less than 5-10 degrees, having a binary fraction comparable to that among cold
classical KBOs. If the 3:2 resonance also hosts a cold component, its binary
fraction should be 20-30% lower than in the cold classical belt. Among cold 2:1
(and if present 3:2) KBOs, objects with eccentricities e < 0.2 should have a
binary fraction ~20% larger than those with e > 0.2. Searches for cold
components in the binary fractions of resonant KBOs are currently practical.
The additional migration-generated trends described here may be distinguished
with objects discovered by LSST. (Abstract abridged.)