We have mapped the emission-line flux distributions and ratios as well as the
gaseous kinematics of the inner 450 pc radius of the Seyfert 1 galaxy Mrk 766
using integral field near-IR J- and Kl-band spectra obtained with the Gemini
nifs at a spatial resolution of 60 pc and velocity resolution of 40 km/s.
Emission-line flux distributions in ionized and molecular gas extend up to ~
300 pc from the nucleus. Coronal [S IX]{\lambda}1.2523{\mu}m line emission is
resolved, being extended up to 150 pc from the nucleus. At the highest flux
levels, the [Fe II]{\lambda}1.257{\mu}m line emission is most extended to the
south-east, where a radio jet has been observed.The emission-line ratios [Fe
II]{\lambda}1.2570{\mu}m/Pa{\beta} and $H_2${\lambda}2.1218{\mu}m/Br{\gamma}
show a mixture of Starburst and Seyfert excitation; the Seyfert excitation
dominates at the nucleus, to the north-west and in an arc-shaped region between
0.2" and 0.6" to the south-east at the location of the radio jet. A
contribution from shocks at this location is supported by enhanced [Fe II]/[P
II] line ratios and increased [Fe II] velocity dispersion. The gas velocity
field is dominated by rotation that is more compact for $H_2$ than for
Pa{\beta}, indicating that the molecular gas has a colder kinematics and is
located in the galaxy plane. There is about $10^3$ solar masses of hot $H_2$,
implying ~ $10^9$ solar masses of cold molecular gas. At the location of the
radio jet, we observe an increase in the [Fe II] velocity dispersion (150
km/s), as well as both blueshift and redshifts in the channel maps, supporting
the presence of an outflow there. The ionized gas mass outflow rate is
estimated to be ~ 10 solar masses/yr, and the power of the outflow ~ 0.08
$L_{bol}$.