We present BIMA two-field mosaic CO(1-0) images of the Taffy galaxies (UGC
12914/15), which show the distinct taffy-like radio continuum emission bridging
the two spiral disks. Large amounts of molecular gas (1.4 x 10^{10} Msun, using
the standard Galactic CO-to-H$_2$ conversion applicable to Galactic disk giant
molecular clouds [GMCs]) were clearly detected throughout the taffy bridge
between the two galaxies, which, as in the more extreme case of HI, presumably
results from a head-on collision between the two galaxies. The highest CO
concentration between the two galaxies corresponds to the H_alpha source in the
taffy bridge near the intruder galaxy UGC 12915. This HII region is also
associated with the strongest source of radio continuum in the bridge, and
shows both morphological and kinematic connections to UGC 12915. The overall CO
distribution of the entire system agrees well with that of the radio continuum
emission, particularly in the taffy bridge. This argues for the star formation
origin of a significant portion of the radio continuum emission. Compared to
the HI morphology and kinematics, which are strongly distorted owing to the
high-speed collision, CO better defines the orbital geometry and impact
parameter of the interaction, as well as the disk properties (e.g., rotation,
orientation) of the progenitor galaxies. Based on the 20cm-to-CO ratio maps, we
conclude that the starburst sites are primarily located in UGC 12915 and the
H_alpha source in the bridge and show that the molecular gas in the taffy
bridge is forming into stars with star formation efficiency comparable to that
of the target galaxy UGC 12914 and similar to that in the Galactic disk.