An Earth orbiting detector sensitive to gamma ray photons will see step-like
occultation features in its counting rate when a gamma ray point source crosses
the Earth's limb. This is due to the change in atmospheric attenuation of the
gamma rays along the line of sight. In an uncollimated detector, these
occultation features can be used to locate and monitor astrophysical sources
provided their signals can be individually separated from the detector
background. We show that the Earth occultation technique applied to the Burst
and Transient Source Experiment (BATSE) on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory
(CGRO) is a viable and flexible all-sky monitor in the low energy gamma ray and
hard X-ray energy range (20 keV - 1 MeV). The method is an alternative to more
sophisticated photon imaging devices for astronomy, and can serve well as a
cost-effective science capability for monitoring the high energy sky.
  Here we describe the Earth occultation technique for locating new sources and
for measuring source intensity and spectra without the use of complex
background models. Examples of transform imaging, step searches, spectra, and
light curves are presented. Systematic uncertainties due to source confusion,
detector response, and contamination from rapid background fluctuations are
discussed and analyzed for their effect on intensity measurements. A sky
location-dependent average systematic error is derived as a function of
galactic coordinates. The sensitivity of the technique is derived as a function
of incident photon energy and also as a function of angle between the source
and the normal to the detector entrance window. Occultations of the Crab Nebula
by the Moon are used to calibrate Earth occultation flux measurements
independent of possible atmospheric scattering effects.