We present the first broadband X-ray observations of four Giga-Hertz Peaked
Spectrum (GPS) radio galaxies at redshift <~1 performed by Chandra and
XMM-Newton. These observations more than double the number of members of this
class with measured spectra in hard (E > 2 keV) X-rays. All sources were
detected. Their radio-to-X-ray spectral energy distributions are similar,
except for PKS0941-080, which is X-ray under-luminous by about two orders of
magnitude. The comparison between the full sample of GPS galaxies with
measurements in hard X-rays and a control sample of radio galaxies rules out
intrinsic X-ray weakness as causing a lower detection rate of GPS sources in
X-ray surveys. Four out of seven GPS galaxies exhibit high X-ray column
densities, whereas for the remaining three this measurement is hampered by the
poor spectral statistics. Bearing in mind the low number statistics in both the
GPS and the control sample, the average column density measured in GPS galaxies
is larger than in FRI or Broad Line Region FR II radio galaxies, but consistent
with that measured in High-Excitation FRII galaxies. This leads to a location
the absorbing gas in an obscuring ``torus'', which prevents us from observing
the nuclear region along lines-of-sight perpendicular to the radio axis. This
interpretation is supported by the discovery of rapid (timescale ~1000 s) X-ray
variability in the GPS galaxy COINSJ0029+3456, and by an almost
order-of-magnitude difference between the HI column density measured in radio
and X-rays in PKS0500+019.