High-resolution spectra obtained with three ground-based facilities and the
Hubble Space Telescope (HST) have been combined to produce a new abundance
analysis of CS 22892-052, an extremely metal-poor giant with large relative
enhancements of neutron-capture elements. A revised model stellar atmosphere
has been derived with the aid of a large number of Fe-peak transitions,
including both neutral and ionized species of six elements.Several elements,
including Mo, Lu, Au, Pt and Pb, have been detected for the first time in CS
22892-052, and significant upper limits have been placed on the abundances of
Ga, Ge, Cd, Sn, and U in this star. In total, abundance measurements or upper
limits have been determined for 57 elements, far more than previously possible.
New Be and Li detections in CS 22892-052 indicate that the abundances of both
these elements are significantly depleted compared to unevolved main-sequence
turnoff stars of similar metallicity. Abundance comparisons show an excellent
agreement between the heaviest n-capture elements (Z >= 56) and scaled solar
system r-process abundances, confirming earlier results for CS 22892-052 and
other metal-poor stars. New theoretical r-process calculations also show good
agreement with CS 22892-052 abundances as well as the solar r-process abundance
components.The abundances of lighter elements (40<= Z <= 50), however, deviate
from the same scaled abundance curves that match the heavier elements,
suggesting different synthesis conditions or sites for the low-mass and
high-mass ends of the abundance distribution. The detection of Th and the upper
limit on the U abundance together imply a lower limit of 10.4 Gyr on the age of
CS 22892-052, quite consistent with the Th/Eu age estimate of 12.8 +/- ~= 3
Gyr. An average of several chronometric ratios yields an age 14.2 +/- ~= 3 Gyr.