In the last decades, great achievements have been made in the development of
computing machines. However, due to exponential growth of transistor density
and in particular due to tremendously increasing power consumption, researchers
expect that "Conventional Technologies" like Complementary Metal-Oxide
Semiconductor will reach their limits in near future. To further satisfy the
needs for more computational power, speed, less size etc. alternatives are
needed. Reversible Computation is the emerging field and alternative of
conventional technologies. Reversible Computation is emerging as a promising
solution and likely to work on extremely low power technologies and offer high
speed computations. The reversibility retains the capability to retrieve the
input data from output and minimizes heat dissipation. As migration to new
technology leave a lot of work done in current technology will make the
acceptability difficult. One side familiarly with new technology and other side
transformation of old circuit designs to new technology will pose a challenge
to designers. A need for convertibility of irreversible circuit to reversible
circuit was felt that can make a quick start and keep the development on track.
In this dissertation a logic circuit design entry based on binary logic system
has been taken up that can provide the ease of circuit design in binary logic
system and output as reversible circuit. Entire environment is GUI based and
easy to learn user friendly. This tool offers editing, storage and conversion
into reversible facility.