We present optical spectroscopy, B, V, R and I CCD photometry and VLA neutral
hydrogen observations of the interacting quartet NGC 6845, also know as Klemola
30. NGC 6845 A, the dominant component, sports a broad and bright tidal bridge
and a faint tidal tail, which bifurcate. The tidal bridge has a (B-I) color
bluer than that of NGC 6845 A inner disk. Five strong condensations, identified
as HII regions brighter than the brightest in our Galaxy, are found along the
tidal bridge, with the two most luminous located at the bridge tip. Two giant
HII regions, comparable to 30 Dor, are located where the tidal bridge and the
tidal tail joint the disk of NGC 6845 A. Since the age of the HII regions are
3-8 Myr, star formation has been occurring along the tidal bridge and the tidal
arm well after they had begun to be torn apart (>= 100 Myr). Satoh model
fitting to the rotation curve of the A component reveals a kinematical mass of
4.4(+-1.2)E11 M_sun, inside the central 12 kpc (H_0=75 km/s/Mpc). The HI
emission shows two components, a more massive one that belongs to NGC 6845 A,
and a second one associated to NGC 6845 B. We do not detect gas associated to
galaxies C and D. The total amount of HI is 1.4E10 M_sun, five time the HI
content of the Milky Way. The HI kinematics indicates an amount of dark matter
associated to the A component two times higher than the mass inside its central
12 kpc. The group kinematics indicates an M/L ~ 43(+-2) or M/L ~ 66(+-2) (solar
units), according to two different prescriptions for the internal absorption
correction. In spite of this difference, both values furnish similar group mass
(~1E13 M_sun). Although preliminary results on N-Body simulations indicate that
either B or C might well create a tidal feature like the bridge of the A
component, the collision with B appears to be more favourable.