Many soft-matter and biophysical systems are composed of monomers which
reversibly assemble into rod-like aggregates. The aggregates can then order
into liquid-crystal phases if the density is high enough, and liquid-crystal
ordering promotes increased growth of aggregates. Systems that display coupled
aggregation and liquid-crystal ordering include wormlike micelles, chromonic
liquid crystals, DNA and RNA, and protein polymers and fibrils. Coarse-grained
molecular models that capture key features of coupled aggregation and
liquid-crystal ordering common to many different systems are lacking; in
particular, the role of monomer aspect ratio and aggregate flexibility in
controlling the phase behavior are not well understood. Here we study a minimal
system of sticky cylinders using Monte Carlo simulations and analytic theory.
Cylindrical monomers interact primarily by hard-core interactions but can stack
and bind end to end. We present results for several different cylinder aspect
ratios and a range of end-to-end binding energies. The phase diagrams are
qualitatively similar to those of chromonic liquid crystals, with an
isotropic-nematic-columnar triple point. The location of the triple point is
sensitive to the monomer aspect ratio.We find that the aggregate persistence
length varies with temperature in a way that is controlled by the interaction
potential; this suggests that the form of the interaction potential affects the
phase behavior of the system. Our analytic theory shows improvement compared to
previous theory in quantitatively predicting the I-N transition for relatively
stiff aggregates, but requires a better treatment of aggregate flexibility.