On October 8, 2011 the Earth crossed dust trails ejected from comet
21P/Giacobini-Zinner in the late 19th and early 20th Century. This gave rise to
an outburst in the activity of the October Draconid meteor shower, and an
international team was organized to analyze this event. The SPanish Meteor
Network (SPMN) joined this initiative and recorded the October Draconids by
means of low light level CCD cameras. In addition, spectroscopic observations
were carried out. Tens of multi-station meteor trails were recorded, including
an extraordinarily bright October Draconid fireball (absolute mag. -10.5) that
was simultaneously imaged from three SPMN meteor ob-serving stations located in
Andalusia. Its spectrum was obtained, showing a clear evolution in the relative
intensity of emission lines as the fireball penetrated deeper into the
atmosphere. Here we focus on the analysis of this remarkable spectrum, but also
discuss the atmospheric trajectory, atmospheric penetration, and orbital data
computed for this bolide which was probably released during
21P/Giacobini-Zinner return to perihelion in 1907. The spectrum is discussed
together with the tensile strength for the October Draconid meteoroids. The
chemical profile evolution of the main rocky elements for this extremely bright
bolide is compared with the elemental abundances obtained for 5 October
Draconid fireballs also recorded during our spectroscopic campaign but observed
only at a single station. Significant chemical heterogeneity between the small
meteoroids is found as we should expect for cometary aggregates being formed by
diverse dust components.