The search for Gamma Ray Burst (GRB) emission in the energy range 1-100 GeV
in coincidence with the satellite detection has been carried out using the
Astrophysical Radiation with Ground-based Observatory at YangBaJing (ARGO-YBJ)
experiment. The high altitude location (4300 m a.s.l.), the large active
surface ($\sim$ 6700 m$^2$ of Resistive Plate Chambers), the wide field of view
($\sim 2~$sr, limited only by the atmospheric absorption) and the high duty
cycle ($>$ 86 %) make the ARGO-YBJ experiment particularly suitable to detect
short and unexpected events like GRBs. With the scaler mode technique, i.e.,
counting all the particles hitting the detector with no measurement of the
primary energy and arrival direction, the minimum threshold of $\sim$ 1 GeV can
be reached, overlapping the direct measurements carried out by satellites.
During the experiment lifetime, from December 17, 2004 to February 7, 2013, a
total of 206 GRBs occurring within the ARGO-YBJ field of view (zenith angle
$\theta$ $\le$ 45$^{\circ}$) have been analyzed. This is the largest sample of
GRBs investigated with a ground-based detector. Two lightcurve models have been
assumed and since in both cases no significant excess has been found, the
corresponding fluence upper limits in the 1-100 GeV energy region have been
derived, with values as low as 10$^{-5}~$erg cm$^{-2}$. The analysis of a
subset of 24 GRBs with known redshift has been used to constrain the fluence
extrapolation to the GeV region together with possible cutoffs under different
assumptions on the spectrum.