This paper presents a search for radio transients at a frequency of 73.8 MHz
(4 m wavelength) using the all-sky imaging capabilities of the Long Wavelength
Demonstrator Array (LWDA). The LWDA was a 16-dipole phased array telescope,
located on the site of the Very Large Array in New Mexico. The field of view of
the individual dipoles was essentially the entire sky, and the number of
dipoles was sufficiently small that a simple software correlator could be used
to make all-sky images. From 2006 October to 2007 February, we conducted an
all-sky transient search program, acquiring a total of 106 hr of data; the time
sampling varied, being 5 minutes at the start of the program and improving to 2
minutes by the end of the program. We were able to detect solar flares, and in
a special-purpose mode, radio reflections from ionized meteor trails during the
2006 Leonid meteor shower. We detected no transients originating outside of the
solar system above a flux density limit of 500 Jy, equivalent to a limit of no
more than about 10^{-2} events/yr/deg^2, having a pulse energy density >~ 1.5 x
10^{-20} J/m^2/Hz at 73.8 MHz for pulse widths of about 300 s. This event rate
is comparable to that determined from previous all-sky transient searches, but
at a lower frequency than most previous all-sky searches. We believe that the
LWDA illustrates how an all-sky imaging mode could be a useful operational
model for low-frequency instruments such as the Low Frequency Array, the Long
Wavelength Array station, the low-frequency component of the Square Kilometre
Array, and potentially the Lunar Radio Array.