We use frequency-resolved spectroscopy to examine the energy spectra of the
prominent low frequency Quasi-Periodic Oscillation (QPO) and its harmonic in GX
339-4. We track the evolution of these spectra as the source makes a transition
from a bright low/hard to hard intermediate state. The time averaged spectrum
from each observation can be fit by a disc, and two comptonisation components
(one quite soft and one much harder) together with their reflection. The
spectrum of the QPO is consistent with being dominated by an even harder
comptonisation spectrum than the hard Compton component seen in the time
averaged spectrum, together with its reflection. Conversely, the harmonic is
consistent with being dominated by the soft Compton component. Simultaneously
fitting the time averaged spectrum together with the harmonic leads to
significantly better constraints on this component than can be derived from the
time averaged spectrum alone. We point to additional evidence from the power
spectrum and spectral lags which also argue for the presence of this soft
comptonisation component. This adds to the growing evidence for inhomogeneous
comptonisation in black hole binaries, and we caution that this more complex
continuum model may change the derived broad line profile. The dramatic
difference in this object between the spectrum of the QPO and its harmonic
disfavours models where the harmonic is solely produced from the angular
dependence of Compton scattering in a single region as this would produce a
similar spectrum for both harmonic and fundamental. Instead, we suggest that
the soft Compton region is located predominantly above the disc while the hard
Compton is from the hotter inner flow.