The software approach to developing Digital Signal Processing (DSP)
applications brings some great features such as flexibility, re-usability of
resources and easy upgrading of applications. However, it requires long and
tedious tests and verification phases because of the increasing complexity of
the software. This implies the need of a software programming environment
capable of putting together DSP modules and providing facilities to debug,
verify and validate the code. The objective of the work is to provide such
facilities as simulation and verification for developing DSP software
applications. This led us to develop an extension toolkit, Epspectra, built
upon Pspectra, one of the first toolkits available to design basic software
radio applications on standard PC workstations. In this paper, we first present
Epspectra, an Esterel-based extension of Pspectra that makes the design and
implementation of portable DSP applications easier. It allows drastic reduction
of testing and verification time while requiring relatively little expertise in
formal verification methods. Second, we demonstrate the use of Epspectra,
taking as an example the radio interface part of a GSM base station. We also
present the verification procedures for the three safety properties of the
implementation programs which have complex control-paths. These have to obey
strict scheduling rules. In addition, Epspectra achieves the verification of
the targeted application since the same model is used for the executable code
generation and for the formal verification.