Using two different experimental techniques, namely, chemical vapor
deposition (CVD) and physical vapor deposition (PVD), we deposited a Lead
sulphide (PbS) thin films with a very small lifetime. We investigated the
morphology of the obtained PbS films using various techniques i.e.AFM, SEM,
EDAX, AES and HRTEM . In the case of CVD, we found that the surface consists of
grains with dimensions in the plane (diameter to 300 nm and height up to 200
nm), while the same order of the grain size has been observed for PVD. On the
other hand, SEM investigation reveals that the PbS particles with various
morphologies of both films have uniform and the particle size distribution.
Small amount of Sodium was obtained from EDXS studies, which is may originate
from the substrate where the deposition process has been produced at
temperature 550-600 deg. and for CVD at minimum accelerating voltage 5kV
silicon are presented in the spectrum, which means that the region for X-ray
generation voltage data exceeds the thickness of the films (where the thickness
of films about 0.4 micron). AES confirm that the surface layer of these films
(PVD) containing carbon and oxygen and it has a thickness of 0.1micron. At a
depth of 1.3 microns in films these elements is again increased, which
corresponds to the film thickness of 1.5 micron. Layers of PVD films are seen
by HRTEM and the studies confirm that oxygen-layer located on top of the
structure, while the layers of CVD films have not only the oxygen along the
crystallite boundaries, but also accumulate in the depth of the boundary with
the substrate. Our results of morphology indicate that changing in spectral
characteristics of films deposited by (CVD and PVD) is related to the structure
and crystalline size.