Aims:To support the computation and evolutionary interpretation of periods
associated with the rotational modulation, oscillations, and variability of
stars located in the CoRoT fields, we are conducting a spectroscopic survey for
stars located in the fields already observed by the satellite. These
observations allow us to compute physical and chemical parameters for our
stellar sample. Method: Using spectroscopic observations obtained with UVES/VLT
and Hydra/Blanco, and based on standard analysis techniques, we computed
physical and chemical parameters ($T_{\rm{eff}}$, $\log \,(g)$, $\rm{[Fe/H]}$,
$v_{\rm{mic}}$, $v_{\rm{rad}}$, $v \sin \,(i)$, and $A(\rm{Li})$) for a large
sample of CoRoT targets. Results: We provide physical and chemical parameters
for a sample comprised of 138 CoRoT targets. Our analysis shows the stars in
our sample are located in different evolutionary stages, ranging from the main
sequence to the red giant branch, and range in spectral type from F to K. The
physical and chemical properties for the stellar sample are in agreement with
typical values reported for FGK stars. However, we report three stars
presenting abnormal lithium behavior in the CoRoT fields. These parameters
allow us to properly characterize the intrinsic properties of the stars in
these fields. Our results reveal important differences in the distributions of
metallicity, $T_{\rm eff}$, and evolutionary status for stars belonging to
different CoRoT fields, in agreement with results obtained independently from
ground-based photometric surveys. Conclusions: Our spectroscopic catalog, by
providing much-needed spectroscopic information for a large sample of CoRoT
targets, will be of key importance for the successful accomplishment of several
different programs related to the CoRoT mission, thus it will help further
boost the scientific return associated with this space mission.