Recent progress in instrumentation enables solar observations with high
resolution simultaneously in the spatial, temporal, and spectral domains. We
use such high-resolution observations to study small-scale structures and
dynamics in the chromosphere of the quiet Sun. We analyze time series of
spectral scans through the Ca II 854.2nm spectral line obtained with the CRISP
instrument at the Swedish 1-m Solar Telescope. The targets are quiet Sun
regions inside coronal holes close to disc-centre. The line core maps exhibit
relatively few fibrils compared to what is normally observed in quiet Sun
regions outside coronal holes. The time series show a chaotic and dynamic scene
that includes spatially confined "swirl" events. These events feature dark and
bright rotating patches, which can consist of arcs, spiral arms, rings or ring
fragments. The width of the fragments typically appears to be on the order of
only 0.2", which is close to the effective spatial resolution. They exhibit
Doppler shifts of -2 to -4 km/s but sometimes up to -7 km/s, indicating fast
upflows. The diameter of a swirl is usually of the order of 2". At the location
of these swirls, the line wing and wide-band maps show close groups of
photospheric bright points that move with respect to each other. A likely
explanation is that the relative motion of the bright points twists the
associated magnetic field in the chromosphere above. Plasma or propagating
waves may then spiral upwards guided by the magnetic flux structure, thereby
producing the observed intensity signature of Doppler-shifted ring fragments.