We report on photometry results of the equatorial globular clusters (GCs) M10
and M12. These two clusters are part of our sample of GCs which we are probing
for the existence of photometrically varying eclipsing binary stars. During the
search for binaries in M10 and M12, we discovered the signature of differential
reddening across the fields of the clusters. The effect is stronger for M10
than for M12. Using our previously described dereddening technique, we create
differential extinction maps for the clusters which dramatically improve the
appearance of the color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs). Comparison of our maps with
the dust emissivity maps of Schlegel, Finkbeiner, & Davis (SFD) shows good
agreement in terms of spatial extinction features. Several methods of adding an
E_{V-I} zero point to our differential maps are presented of which isochrone
fitting proved to be the most successful. Our E_{V-I} values fall within the
range of widely varying literature values. More specifically, our reddening
zero point estimate for M12 agrees well with the SFD estimate, whereas the one
for M10 falls below the SFD value. Our search for variable stars in the
clusters produced a total of five variables: three in M10 and two in M12. The
M10 variables include a binary system of the W Ursa Majoris (W UMa) type, a
background RR Lyrae star, and an SX Phoenicis pulsator, none of which is
physically associated with M10. M12's variables are two W UMa binaries, one of
which is most likely a member of the cluster. We present the phased photometry
lightcurves for the variable stars, estimate their distances, and show their
locations in the fields and the CMDs of the GCs.