The Chandra Orion Ultradeep Project observed hundreds of young, low-mass
stars undergoing highly energetic X-ray flare events. The 32 most powerful
cases have been modeled with the result that the magnetic structures
responsible for these flares can be many stellar radii in extent. In this
paper, we model the observed spectral energy distributions of these 32 stars in
order to determine, in detail for each star, whether there is circumstellar
disk material situated in sufficient proximity to the stellar surface for
interaction with the large magnetic loops inferred from the observed X-ray
flares. Our spectral energy distributions span the wavelength range 0.3-8 um
(plus 24 um for some stars), allowing us to constrain the presence of dusty
circumstellar material out to >10 AU from the stellar surface in most cases.
For 24 of the 32 stars in our sample the available data are sufficient to
constrain the location of the inner edge of the dusty disks. Six of these (25%)
have spectral energy distributions consistent with inner disks within reach of
the observed magnetic loops. Another four stars may have gas disks interior to
the dust disk and extending within reach of the magnetic loops, but we cannot
confirm this with the available data. The remaining 14 stars (58%) appear to
have no significant disk material within reach of the large flaring loops.
Thus, up to ~40% of the sample stars exhibit energetic X-ray flares that
possibly arise from a magnetic star-disk interaction, and the remainder are
evidently associated with extremely large, free-standing magnetic loops
anchored only to the stellar surface.