A small subset of thermonuclear X-ray bursts on neutron stars exhibit such a
strong photospheric expansion that for a few seconds the photosphere is located
at a radius r_ph >~ 1000 km. Such `superexpansions' imply a large and rapid
energy release, a feature characteristic of pure He burst models. Previous
calculations have shown that during a pure He burst, the freshly synthesized
heavy-element ashes of burning can be ejected in a strong radiative wind and
produce significant spectral absorption features. We search the burst data
catalogs and literature and find 32 superexpansion bursts. We find that these
bursts exhibit the following interesting features: (1) At least 31 are from
(candidate) ultracompact X-ray binaries in which the neutron star accretes
hydrogen-deficient fuel, suggesting that these bursts indeed ignite in a
helium-rich layer. (2) In 2 bursts we detect strong absorption edges during the
expansion phase. The edge energies and depths are consistent with the H-like or
He-like edge of iron-peak elements with abundances greater than 100 times
solar, suggesting that we are seeing the exposed ashes of nuclear burning. (3)
The superexpansion phase is always followed by a moderate expansion phase
during which r_ph ~ 30 km and the luminosity is near the Eddington limit. (4)
The decay time of the bursts, t_d, ranges from short (approximately 10 s) to
intermediate (>~ 1000 s). However, despite the large range of t_d, the duration
of the superexpansion is always a few seconds, independent of t_d. By contrast,
the duration of the moderate expansion is always of order t_d. (5) The
photospheric radii r_ph during the moderate expansion phase are much smaller
than steady state wind models predict. We show that this may be further
indication that the wind contains highly non-solar abundances of heavy
elements.