We use numerical simulations to investigate the orbital characteristics of
tidal debris from satellites whose orbits are dragged into the plane of
galactic disks by dynamical friction before disruption. We find that these
satellites may deposit a significant fraction of their stars into the disk
components of a galaxy, and use our results to motivate the search for
accretion relicts in samples of metal-poor disk stars in the vicinity of the
Sun. Satellites disrupted on very eccentric orbits coplanar with the disk are
expected to shed stars in "trails" of distinct orbital energy and angular
momentum during each pericentric passage. To an observer located between the
pericenter and apocenter of such orbits, these trails would show as distinct
groupings of stars with low vertical velocity and a broad, symmetric, often
double-peaked distribution of Galactocentric radial velocities. One group of
stars with these characteristics stands out in available compilations of nearby
metal-poor stars. These stars have specific angular momenta similar to that of
the globular cluster omegaCen, long hypothesized to be the nucleus of a dwarf
galaxy disrupted by the Milky Way tidal field. In addition to their kindred
kinematics, stars in the omegaCen group share distinct chemical abundance
characteristics, and trace a well-defined track in the [alpha/Fe] versus [Fe/H]
plane, consistent with simple closed-box enrichment models and a protracted
star formation history. The dynamical and chemical coherence of this group
suggests that it consists of stars that once belonged to the dwarf that brought
omegaCen into the Galaxy. The presence of this and other "tidal relicts" in the
solar neighbourhood suggest an extra-Galactic origin for the presence of nearby
stars with odd kinematics and chemistry.