This contribution is mainly based on joint papers with Lepowsky and Milas,
and some parts of these papers are reproduced here. These papers further
extended works by Lepowsky and by Milas. Following our joint papers, I explain
the general principles of twisted modules for vertex operator algebras in their
powerful formulation using formal series, and derive general relations
satisfied by twisted and untwisted vertex operators. Using these, I prove new
"equivalence" and "construction" theorems, identifying a set of sufficient
conditions in order to have a twisted module for a vertex operator algebra, and
a simple way of constructing the twisted vertex operator map. This essentially
combines our general relations for twisted modules with ideas of Li (1996), who
had obtained similar construction theorems using different relations. Then, I
show how to apply these theorems in order to construct twisted modules for the
Heisenberg vertex operator algebra. I obtain in a new way the explicit twisted
vertex operator map, and in particular give a new derivation and expression for
the formal operator $\Delta_x$ constructed some time ago by Frenkel, Lepowsky
and Meurman. Finally, I reproduce parts of our joint papers. The untwisted
relations in the Heisenberg vertex operator algebra are employed to explain
properties of a certain central extension of a Lie algebra of differential
operators on the circle, in relation to the Riemann Zeta function at negative
integers. A family of representations for this algebra are constructed from
twisted modules for the vertex operator algebra, and are related to the
Bernoulli polynomials at rational values.