The all-order construction of the pinch technique gluon self-energy and
quark-gluon vertex is presented in detail within the class of linear covariant
gauges. The main ingredients in our analysis are the identification of a
special Green's function, which serves as a common kernel to all self-energy
and vertex diagrams, and the judicious use of the Slavnov-Taylor identity it
satisfies. In particular, it is shown that the ghost-Green's functions
appearing in this identity capture precisely the result of the pinching action
at arbitrary order. By virtue of this observation the construction of the
quark-gluon vertex becomes particularly compact. It turns out that the
aforementioned ghost-Green's functions play a crucial role, their net effect
being the non-trivial modification of the ghost diagrams of the quark-gluon
vertex in such a way as to reproduce dynamically the characteristic ghost
sector of the background field method. The gluon self-energy is also
constructed following two different procedures. First, an indirect derivation
is given, by resorting to the strong induction method and the assumption of the
uniqueness of the S-matrix. Second, an explicit construction based on the
intrinsic pinch technique is provided, using the Slavnov-Taylor identity
satisfied by the all-order three-gluon vertex nested inside the self-energy
diagrams. The process-independence of the gluon self-energy is also
demonstrated, by using gluons instead of quark as external test particles, and
identifying the corresponding kernel function, together with its Slavnov-Taylor
identity. Finally, the general methodology for carrying out the renormalization
of the resulting Green's functions is outlined, and various open questions are
briefly discussed.