We first formulate a definition of tensor product for two modules for a
vertex operator algebra in terms of a certain universal property and then we
give a construction of tensor products. We prove the unital property of the
adjoint module and the commutativity of tensor products, up to module
isomorphism. We relate this tensor product construction with Frenkel and Zhu's
$A(M)$-theory. We give a proof of a formula of Frenkel and Zhu for fusion
rules. We also give the analogue of the ``Hom''-functor of classical Lie
algebra theory for vertex operator algebra theory by introducing a notion of
``generalized intertwining operator.'' We prove that the space of generalized
intertwining operators from one module to another for a vertex operator algebra
is a generalized module. From this result we derive a general form of Tsuchiya
and Kanie's ``nuclear democracy theorem'' for any rational vertex operator
algebra. This proves that the fusion rules obtained from our construction of
tensor products are the same as the fusion rules obtained by using Tsuchiya and
Kanie's method, for both WZW models and minimal models. We prove that if $V$
satisfies certain ``finiteness'' and ``semisimplicity'' conditions, then there
exists a unique maximal submodule inside the generalized module. Furthermore,
we prove that this maximal submodule is isomorphic to the contragredient module
of a certain tensor product module. This gives another construction of tensor
product modules and this result turns out to be closely related to Huang and
Lepowsky's construction.