Given a finite-dimensional reductive Lie algebra $\mathfrak{g}$ equipped with
a nondegenerate, invariant, symmetric bilinear form $B$, let
$V_k(\mathfrak{g},B)$ denote the universal affine vertex algebra associated to
$\mathfrak{g}$ and $B$ at level $k$. Let $\mathcal{A}_k$ be a vertex
(super)algebra admitting a homomorphism $V_k(\mathfrak{g},B)\rightarrow
\mathcal{A}_k$. Under some technical conditions on $\mathcal{A}_k$, we
characterize the commutant
$\mathcal{C}_k=\text{Com}(V_k(\mathfrak{g},B),\mathcal{A}_k)$ for generic
values of $k$. We establish the strong finite generation of $\mathcal{C}_k$ in
full generality in the following cases: $\mathcal{A}_k =
V_k(\mathfrak{g}',B')$, $\mathcal{A}_k = V_{k-l}(\mathfrak{g}',B') \otimes
\mathcal{F}$, and $\mathcal{A}_k = V_{k-l}(\mathfrak{g}',B') \otimes
V_{l}(\mathfrak{g}",B")$. Here $\mathfrak{g}'$ and $\mathfrak{g}"$ are
finite-dimensional Lie (super)algebras containing $\mathfrak{g}$, equipped with
nondegenerate, invariant, (super)symmetric bilinear forms $B'$ and $B"$ which
extend $B$, $l \in \mathbb{C}$ is fixed, and $\mathcal{F}$ is a free field
algebra admitting a homomorphism $V_l(\mathfrak{g},B) \rightarrow \mathcal{F}$.
Our approach is essentially constructive and leads to minimal strong finite
generating sets for many interesting examples. As an application we prove the
rationality of the simple $N=2$ superconformal algebra with $c=\frac{3k}{k+2}$
for all positive integers $k$.