In this paper we introduce a new simple but powerful general technique for
the study of edge- and vertex-reinforced processes with super-linear
reinforcement, based on the use of order statistics for the number of edge,
respectively of vertex, traversals. The technique relies on upper bound
estimates for the number of edge traversals, proved in a different context by
Cotar and Limic [Ann. Appl. Probab. (2009)] for finite graphs with edge
reinforcement. We apply our new method both to edge- and to vertex-reinforced
random walks with super-linear reinforcement on arbitrary infinite connected
graphs of bounded degree. We stress that, unlike all previous results for
processes with super-linear reinforcement, we make no other assumption on the
graphs.
  For edge-reinforced random walks, we complete the results of Limic and
Tarr\`{e}s [Ann. Probab. (2007)] and we settle a conjecture of Sellke
[Technical Report 94-26, Purdue University (1994)] by showing that for any
reciprocally summable reinforcement weight function w, the walk traverses a
random attracting edge at all large times.
  For vertex-reinforced random walks, we extend results previously obtained on
Z by Volkov [Ann. Probab. (2001)] and by Basdevant, Schapira and Singh [Ann.
Probab. (2014)], and on complete graphs by Benaim, Raimond and Schapira [ALEA
(2013)]. We show that on any infinite connected graph of bounded degree, with
reinforcement weight function w taken from a general class of reciprocally
summable reinforcement weight functions, the walk traverses two random
neighbouring attracting vertices at all large times.