For the semisimple Lie algebra $ \frak{sl}_n$, the basic representation
$L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(1,0)$ of the affine Lie algebra
$\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}$ is a lattice vertex operator algebra. The first main
result of the paper is to prove that the commutant vertex operator algebra of $
L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(l,0)$ in the $l$-fold tensor product $
L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(1,0)^{\otimes l}$ is isomorphic to the parafermion
vertex operator algebra $K(\frak{sl}_{l},n)$, which is the commutant of the
Heisenberg vertex operator algebra $L_{\widehat{\frak{h}}}(n,0) $ in
$L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_l}}(n,0)$. The result provides a version of level-rank
duality. The second main result of the paper is to prove more general version
of the first result that the commutant of $
L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(l_1+\cdots +l_s, 0)$ in
$L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(l_1,0)\otimes \cdots \otimes
L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}_{n}}}(l_s, 0)$ is isomorphic to the commutant of the
vertex operator algebra generated by a Levi Lie subalgebra of
$\frak{sl}_{l_1+\cdots+l_s}$ corresponding to the composition $(l_1, \cdots,
l_s)$ in the rational vertex operator algebra $
L_{\widehat{\frak{sl}}_{l_1+\cdots +l_s}}(n,0)$. This general version also
resembles a version of reciprocity law discussed by Howe in the context of
reductive Lie groups. In the course of the proof of the main results, certain
Howe duality pairs also appear in the context of vertex operator algebras.