The aim of this paper is to analyse the validity of the Dopplergram and
lambda-meter techniques for the Doppler diagnostics of solar photospheric
velocities using the BaII 4554 A line. Both techniques are evaluated by means
of NLTE radiative transfer calculations of the BaII 4554 A line in a
three-dimensional hydrodynamical model of solar convection. We consider the
cases of spatially unsmeared profiles and the profiles smeared to the
resolution of ground-based observations. We find that: (i)
Speckle-reconstructed Dopplergram velocities reproduce the ``true'' velocities
well at heights around 300 km, except for intergranular lanes with strong
downflows where the velocity can be overestimated. (ii) The lambda-meter
velocities give a good representation of the ``true'' velocities through the
whole photosphere, both under the original and reduced spatial resolutions. The
velocities derived from the inner wing of smeared BaII 4554 A line profiles are
more reliable than those for the outer wing. Only under high spatial resolution
does the inner wing velocities calculated in intergranular regions give an
underestimate (or even a sign reversal) compared with the model velocities.
(iii) NLTE effects should be taken into account in modelling the BaII 4554 A
line profiles. Such effects are more pronounced in intergranular regions. Our
analysis supports the opinion that the Dopplergram technique applied to the
BaII 4554 A line is a valuable tool for the Doppler diagnostics of the middle
photosphere around 300 km. The \lambda-meter technique applied to this line
gives us a good opportunity to ``trace'' the non-thermal motions along the
whole photosphere up to the temperature minimum and lower chromosphere.