The Rock-Paper-Scissors (RPS) game and its generalizations with ${\cal S}>3$
species are well studied models for cyclically interacting populations. Four
is, however, the minimum number of species that, by allowing other interactions
beyond the single, cyclic loop, breaks both the full intransitivity of the food
graph and the one predator, one prey symmetry. L\"utz {\it et al} (J. Theor.
Biol. {\bf 317} (2013) 286) have shown the existence, on a square lattice, of
two distinct phases, with either four or three coexisting species. In both
phases, each agent is eventually replaced by one of its predators but these
strategy oscillations remain localized as long as the interactions are short
ranged. Distant regions may be either out of phase or cycling through different
food web subloops (if any). Here we show that upon replacing a minimum fraction
$Q_c$ of the short range interactions by long range ones, there is a Hopf
bifurcation and global oscillations become stable. Surprisingly, to build such
long distance, global synchronization, the four species coexistence phase
requires less long range interactions than the three species phase, while one
would naively expect the contrary. Moreover, deviations from highly homogeneous
conditions ($\chi=0$ or 1) increase $Q_c$ and the more heterogeneous is the
food web, the harder the synchronization is. By further increasing $Q$, while
the three species phase remains stable, the four species one has a transition
to an absorbing, single species state. The existence of a phase with global
oscillations for ${\cal S}>3$, when the interaction graph has multiple subloops
and several possible local cycles, lead to the conjecture that global
oscillations are a general characteristic, even for large, realistic food webs.