We provide a comparative study of the fine tuning amount (Delta) at the
two-loop leading log level in supersymmetric models commonly used in SUSY
searches at the LHC. These are the constrained MSSM (CMSSM), non-universal
Higgs masses models (NUHM1, NUHM2), non-universal gaugino masses model (NUGM)
and GUT related gaugino masses models (NUGMd). Two definitions of the fine
tuning are used, the first (Delta_{max}) measures maximal fine-tuning wrt
individual parameters while the second (Delta_q) adds their contribution in
"quadrature". As a direct result of two theoretical constraints (the EW minimum
conditions), fine tuning (Delta_q) emerges as a suppressing factor (effective
prior) of the averaged likelihood (under the priors), under the integral of the
global probability of measuring the data (Bayesian evidence p(D)). For each
model, there is little difference between Delta_q, Delta_{max} in the region
allowed by the data, with similar behaviour as functions of the Higgs, gluino,
stop mass or SUSY scale (m_{susy}=(m_{\tilde t_1} m_{\tilde t_2})^{1/2}) or
dark matter and g-2 constraints. The analysis has the advantage that by
replacing any of these mass scales or constraints by their latest bounds one
easily infers for each model the value of Delta_q, Delta_{max} or vice versa.
For all models, minimal fine tuning is achieved for M_{higgs} near 115 GeV with
a Delta_q\approx Delta_{max}\approx 10 to 100 depending on the model, and in
the CMSSM this is actually a global minimum. Due to a strong ($\approx$
exponential) dependence of Delta on M_{higgs}, for a Higgs mass near 125 GeV,
the above values of Delta_q\approx Delta_{max} increase to between 500 and
1000. Possible corrections to these values are briefly discussed.