Aims: To predict the cruise radiation environment related to future human
missions to Mars, the correlation between solar modulation potential and the
dose rate measured by the Radiation Assessment Detector (RAD) has been analyzed
and empirical models have been employed to quantify this correlation. Methods:
The instrument RAD, onboard Mars Science Laboratory's (MSL) rover Curiosity,
measures a broad spectrum of energetic particles along with the radiation dose
rate during the 253-day cruise phase as well as on the surface of Mars. With
these first ever measurements inside a spacecraft from Earth to Mars, RAD
observed the impulsive enhancement of dose rate during solar particle events as
well as a gradual evolution of the galactic cosmic ray (GCR) induced radiation
dose rate due to the modulation of the primary GCR flux by the solar magnetic
field, which correlates with long-term solar activities and heliospheric
rotation. Results: We analyzed the dependence of the dose rate measured by RAD
on solar modulation potentials and estimated the dose rate and dose equivalent
under different solar modulation conditions. These estimations help us to have
approximate predictions of the cruise radiation environment, such as the
accumulated dose equivalent associated with future human missions to Mars.
Conclusions: The predicted dose equivalent rate during solar maximum conditions
could be as low as one-fourth of the current RAD cruise measurement. However,
future measurements during solar maximum and minimum periods are essential to
validate our estimations.