We report measurements of a polar coronal hole during the recent solar
minimum using the Extreme Ultraviolet Imaging Spectrometer on Hinode. Five
observations are analyzed that span the polar coronal hole from the central
meridian to the boundary with the quiet Sun corona. We study the observations
above the solar limb in the height range of 1.03 - 1.20 solar radii. The
electron temperature Te and emission measure EM are found using the Geometric
mean Emission Measure (GEM) method. The EM derived from the elements Fe, Si, S,
and Al are compared in order to measure relative coronal-to-photospheric
abundance enhancement factors. We also studied the ion temperature Ti and the
non-thermal velocity Vnt using the line profiles. All these measurements are
compared to polar coronal hole observations from the previous (1996-1997) solar
minimum and to model predictions for relative abundances. There are many
similarities in the physical properties of the polar coronal holes between the
two minima at these low heights. We find that Te, electron density Ne, and Ti
are comparable in both minima. Te shows a comparable gradient with height. Both
minima show a decreasing Ti with increasing charge-to-mass ratio q/M. A
previously observed upturn of Ti for ions above q/M > 0.25 was not found here.
We also compared relative coronal-to-photospheric elemental abundance
enhancement factors for a number of elements. These ratios were about 1 for
both the low first ionization potential (FIP) elements Si and Al and the
marginally high FIP element S relative to the low FIP element Fe, as is
expected based on earlier observations and models for a polar coronal hole.
These results are consistent with no FIP effect in a polar coronal hole.