Cepheids are fundamental objects astrophysically in that they hold the key to
a CMB independent estimate of Hubble's constant. A number of researchers have
pointed out the possibilities of breaking degeneracies between Omega_Matter and
H0 if there is a CMB independent distance scale accurate to a few percent (Hu
2005). Current uncertainties in the distance scale are about 10% but future
observations, with, for example, the JWST, will be capable of estimating H0 to
within a few percent. A crucial step in this process is the Cepheid PL
relation. Recent evidence has emerged that the PL relation, at least in optical
bands, is nonlinear and that neglect of such a nonlinearity can lead to errors
in estimating H0 of up to 2 percent. Hence it is important to critically
examine this possible nonlinearity both observationally and theoretically.
Existing PC/PL relations rely exclusively on evaluating these relations at mean
light. However, since such relations are the average of relations at different
phases. Here we report on recent attempts to compare theory and observation in
the multiphase PC/PL planes. We construct state of the art Cepheid pulsations
models appropriate for the LMC/Galaxy and compare the resulting PC/PL relations
as a function of phase with observations. For the LMC, the (V-I) period-color
relation at minimum light can have quite a narrow dispersion (0.2-0.3 mags) and
thus could be useful in placing constraints on models. At longer periods, the
models predict significantly redder (by about 0.2-0.3 mags) V-I colors. We
discuss possible reasons for this and also compare PL relations at various
phases of pulsation and find clear evidence in both theory and observations for
a nonlinear PL relation.