Analytical and geometrical properties of generalized power-law (GPL) density
profiles are investigated in detail. In particular, a one-to-one correspondence
is found between mathematical parameters and geometrical parameters. Then GPL
density profiles are compared with simulated dark haloes (SDH) density
profiles, and nonlinear least-absolute values and least-squares fits involving
the above mentioned five parameters (RFSM5 method) are prescribed. More
specifically, the sum of absolute values or squares of absolute logarithmic
residuals is evaluated on a large number of points making a 5-dimension
hypergrid, through a few iterations. The size is progressively reduced around a
fiducial minimum, and superpositions on nodes of earlier hypergrids are
avoided. An application is made to a sample of 17 SDHs on the scale of cluster
of galaxies, within a flat $\Lambda$CDM cosmological model (Rasia et al. 2004).
In dealing with the mean SDH density profile, a virial radius, averaged over
the whole sample, is assigned, which allows the calculation of the remaining
parameters. Using a RFSM5 method provides a better fit with respect to other
methods. No evident correlation is found between SDH dynamical state (relaxed
or merging) and asymptotic inner slope of the logarithmic density profile or
(for SDH comparable virial masses) scaled radius. Mean values and standard
deviations of some parameters are calculated, and a comparison with previous
results is made with regard to the scaled radius. A certain degree of
degeneracy is found in fitting GPL to SDH density profiles. If it is intrinsic
to the RFSM5 method or it could be reduced by the next generation of
high-resolution simulations, still remains an open question.