[abridged] The galactic field's late-type stellar single and binary
population is calculated on the supposition that all stars form as binaries in
embedded star clusters. A recently developed tool (Marks, Kroupa & Oh) is used
to evolve the binary star distributions in star clusters for a few Myr so that
a particular mixture of single and binary stars is achieved. On cluster
dissolution the population enters the galactic field with these
characteristics. The different contributions of single stars and binaries from
individual star clusters which are selected from a power-law embedded star
cluster mass function are then added up. This gives rise to integrated galactic
field binary distribution functions (IGBDFs) resembling a galactic field's
stellar content (Dynamical Population Synthesis). It is found that the binary
proportion in the galactic field of a galaxy is larger the lower the minimum
cluster mass, the lower the star formation rate, the steeper the embedded star
cluster mass function and the larger the typical size of forming star clusters
in the considered galaxy. In particular, period-, mass-ratio- and eccentricity
IGBDFs for the Milky Way are modelled. The afore mentioned theoretical IGBDFs
agree with independently observed distributions. Of all late-type binaries, 50%
stem from M<300M_sun clusters, while 50% of all single stars were born in
M>10^4M_sun clusters. Comparison of the G-dwarf and M-dwarf binary population
indicates that the stars formed in mass-segregated clusters. In particular it
is pointed out that although in the present model all M-dwarfs are born in
binary systems, in the Milky Way's Galactic field the majority ends up being
single stars. This work predicts that today's binary frequency in elliptical
galaxies is lower than in spiral and in dwarf-galaxies. The period and
mass-ratio distributions in these galaxies are explicitly predicted.