In this work, we give good concatenated code ensembles for the binary erasure
channel (BEC). In particular, we consider repeat multiple-accumulate (RMA) code
ensembles formed by the serial concatenation of a repetition code with multiple
accumulators, and the hybrid concatenated code (HCC) ensembles recently
introduced by Koller et al. (5th Int. Symp. on Turbo Codes & Rel. Topics,
Lausanne, Switzerland) consisting of an outer multiple parallel concatenated
code serially concatenated with an inner accumulator. We introduce stopping
sets for iterative constituent code oriented decoding using maximum a
posteriori erasure correction in the constituent codes. We then analyze the
asymptotic stopping set distribution for RMA and HCC ensembles and show that
their stopping distance hmin, defined as the size of the smallest nonempty
stopping set, asymptotically grows linearly with the block length. Thus, these
code ensembles are good for the BEC. It is shown that for RMA code ensembles,
contrary to the asymptotic minimum distance dmin, whose growth rate coefficient
increases with the number of accumulate codes, the hmin growth rate coefficient
diminishes with the number of accumulators. We also consider random puncturing
of RMA code ensembles and show that for sufficiently high code rates, the
asymptotic hmin does not grow linearly with the block length, contrary to the
asymptotic dmin, whose growth rate coefficient approaches the Gilbert-Varshamov
bound as the rate increases. Finally, we give iterative decoding thresholds for
the different code ensembles to compare the convergence properties.