By efforts of several contributors, it is recently established that the dynamical
behavior of the cosmological perturbation on superhorizon scales is well
approximated in terms of that in the long wavelength limit, and the latter can
be constructed from the evolution of corresponding exactly homogeneous
universe. Using these facts, we investigate the evolution of the cosmological
perturbation on superhorizon scales in the universe dominated by oscillating
multiple scalar fields which are generally interacting with each other, and the
ratio of whose masses is incommensurable. Since the scalar fields oscillate
rapidly around the local minimum of the potential, we use the action angle
variables. We found that this problem can be formulated as the canonical
perturbation theory in which the perturbed part appearing as the result of the
expansion of the universe and the interaction of the scalar fields is bounded
by the negative power ot time. We show that by constructing the canonical
transformations properly, the transformed hamiltonian becomes simple enough to
be solved. As the result of the invetigation using the long wavelength limit
and the canonical perturbation theory, under the sufficiently general
conditions, we prove that for the adiabatic growing mode the Bardeen parameter
stays constant and that for all the other modes the Bardeen parameter decays.
  From the viewpoint of the ergodic theory, it is discussed that as for the
Bardeen parameter, the sigularities appear probabilistically. This analysis
serves the understanding of the evolution of the cosmological perturbations on
superhorizon scales during reheating.