Present in over 45% of local spirals, boxy and peanut-shaped bulges are
generally interpreted as edge-on bars and may represent a key phase in the
evolution of bulges. Aiming to test such claims, the kinematic properties of
self-consistent 3D N-body simulations of bar-unstable disks are studied. Using
Gauss-Hermite polynomials to describe the stellar kinematics, a number of
characteristic bar signatures are identified in edge-on disks: 1) a major-axis
light profile with a quasi-exponential central peak and a plateau at moderate
radii (Freeman Type II profile); 2) a ``double-hump'' rotation curve; 3) a
sometime flat central velocity dispersion peak with a plateau at moderate radii
and occasional local central minimum and secondary peak; 4) an h3-V correlation
over the projected bar length. All those kinematic features are spatially
correlated and can easily be understood from the orbital structure of barred
disks. They thus provide a reliable and easy-to-use tool to identify edge-on
bars. Interestingly, they are all produced without dissipation and are
increasingly realized to be common in spirals, lending support to bar-driven
evolution scenarios for bulge formation. So called ``figure-of-eight''
position-velocity diagrams are never observed, as expected for realistic
orbital configurations. Although not uniquely related to triaxiality,
line-of-sight velocity distributions with a high velocity tail (i.e. an h3-V
correlation) appear as particularly promising tracers of bars. The stellar
kinematic features identified grow in strength as the bar evolves and vary
little for small inclination variations. Many can be used to trace the bar
length. Comparisons with observations are encouraging and support the view that
boxy and peanut-shaped bulges are simply thick bars viewed edge-on.