(abridged) We present results from a detailed set of end-to-end numerical
simulations of SIM narrow-angle astrometric measurements and data analysis to
illustrate the enormous potential that SIM has for the discovery and
characterization of planets outside the Solar System. Utilizing a template
observing scenario, we quantify SIM sensitivity to single planets orbiting
single normal nearby stars as function of measurement errors and properties of
the planet: SIM will detect over 95% of the planets with periods between a few
days and the 5-year nominal mission lifetime that produce astrometric
signatures $\sim 2.2$ times larger than the single-measurement accuracy. We
provide accuracy estimates of full-orbit reconstruction and planet mass
determination: at twice the discovery limit, orbital elements will be
determined with a typical accuracy of 20-30%; the astrometric signature must be
$\sim 10$ and $\sim 15$ times the minimum signal required for detection to
derive mass and inclination angle estimates accurate to 10%. We quantify the
impact of different observing strategies on the boundaries for secure detection
and accurate orbit estimation: the results scale with the square root of both
the number of observations and the number of reference stars. We investigate
SIM discovery space, to gauge the instrument ability in detecting very low-mass
planets: around the nearest stars, SIM will find planets as small as Earth, if
they are present. Some of these might be orbiting inside the parent star's
Habitable Zone. (abridged)