We show that the $2.4\sigma$ signal of the leptonic flavor violating (LFV)
Higgs boson decay $h\to\mu\tau$, as observed by the CMS collaboration recently,
can be explained by a certain class of two-Higgs doublet models that allow
controllable flavor-changing neutral current with minimal number of free
parameters. We postulate that (i) the alignment limit is maintained, which
means the lightest neutral scalar ($h$) has identical couplings to that of the
Standard Model Higgs boson and (ii) the signal comes from two other neutral
scalars, the CP-even $H$ and the CP-odd $A$, almost degenerate with $h$ at 125
GeV. We also show that (i) it is entirely possible that these scalars are
hidden, apart from this LFV signal; (ii) the signal strengths of $b\bar{b}$,
$\tau^+\tau^-$ and $\gamma\gamma$ around 125 GeV put severe constraints on the
parameter space of such models; (iii) the constraint is further enhanced by the
non-observation of processes like $\mu\to e\gamma$, and we predict that the
branching ratio of $\mu\to e\gamma$ cannot be even an order below the present
experimental limit, highlighting the role it plays in forcing $H$ and $A$ to be
near-degenerate; (iv) an enhancement in the $\tau^+\tau^-$ production
cross-section at around 125 GeV is expected in the gluon fusion channel, and
should be observed during the next run of the LHC; (v) the branching ratio in
the $e\tau$ channel is enhanced and is expected to be at least about $2\%$. The
constrained parameter space and minimum number of free parameters, along with
such strong predictions, make this model easily testable and falsifiable.