Some existing notions of redundancy among association rules allow for a
logical-style characterization and lead to irredundant bases of absolutely
minimum size. One can push the intuition of redundancy further and find an
intuitive notion of interest of an association rule, in terms of its "novelty"
with respect to other rules. Namely: an irredundant rule is so because its
confidence is higher than what the rest of the rules would suggest; then, one
can ask: how much higher? We propose to measure such a sort of "novelty"
through the confidence boost of a rule, which encompasses two previous similar
notions (confidence width and rule blocking, of which the latter is closely
related to the earlier measure "improvement"). Acting as a complement to
confidence and support, the confidence boost helps to obtain small and crisp
sets of mined association rules, and solves the well-known problem that, in
certain cases, rules of negative correlation may pass the confidence bound. We
analyze the properties of two versions of the notion of confidence boost, one
of them a natural generalization of the other. We develop efficient
algorithmics to filter rules according to their confidence boost, compare the
concept to some similar notions in the bibliography, and describe the results
of some experimentation employing the new notions on standard benchmark
datasets. We describe an open-source association mining tool that embodies one
of our variants of confidence boost in such a way that the data mining process
does not require the user to select any value for any parameter.