In 3D reconstruction, the recovery of the calibration parameters of the
cameras is paramount since it provides metric information about the observed
scene, e.g., measures of angles and ratios of distances. Autocalibration
enables the estimation of the camera parameters without using a calibration
device, but by enforcing simple constraints on the camera parameters. In the
absence of information about the internal camera parameters such as the focal
length and the principal point, the knowledge of the camera pixel shape is
usually the only available constraint. Given a projective reconstruction of a
rigid scene, we address the problem of the autocalibration of a minimal set of
cameras with known pixel shape and otherwise arbitrarily varying intrinsic and
extrinsic parameters. We propose an algorithm that only requires 5 cameras (the
theoretical minimum), thus halving the number of cameras required by previous
algorithms based on the same constraint. To this purpose, we introduce as our
basic geometric tool the six-line conic variety (SLCV), consisting in the set
of planes intersecting six given lines of 3D space in points of a conic. We
show that the set of solutions of the Euclidean upgrading problem for three
cameras with known pixel shape can be parameterized in a computationally
efficient way. This parameterization is then used to solve autocalibration from
five or more cameras, reducing the three-dimensional search space to a
two-dimensional one. We provide experiments with real images showing the good
performance of the technique.