We present the results of the two most recent (2005) XMM-Newton observations
of Saturn together with the re-analysis of an earlier (2002) observation from
the XMM-Newton archive and of three Chandra observations in 2003 and 2004.
While the XMM-Newton telescope resolution does not enable us to resolve
spatially the contributions of the planet's disk and rings to the X-ray flux,
we can estimate their strengths and their evolution over the years from
spectral analysis, and compare them with those observed with Chandra. The
spectrum of the X-ray emission is well fitted by an optically thin coronal
model with an average temperature of 0.5 keV. The addition of a fluorescent
oxygen emission line at ~0.53 keV improves the fits significantly. In
accordance with earlier reports, we interpret the coronal component as emission
from the planetary disk, produced by the scattering of solar X-rays in Saturn's
upper atmosphere, and the line as originating from the Saturnian rings. The
strength of the disk X-ray emission is seen to decrease over the period 2002 -
2005, following the decay of solar activity towards the current minimum in the
solar cycle. By comparing the relative fluxes of the disk X-ray emission and
the oxygen line, we suggest that the line strength does not vary over the years
in the same fashion as the disk flux. We consider possible alternatives for the
origin of the line. The connection between solar activity and the strength of
Saturn's disk X-ray emission is investigated and compared with that of Jupiter.
We also discuss the apparent lack of X-ray aurorae on Saturn and conclude that
they are likely to lie below the sensitivity threshold of current Earth-bound
observatories. A similar comparison for Uranus and Neptune leads to the same
disappointing conclusion.