The characteristics of wireless communication channels may vary with time due
to fading, environmental changes and movement of mobile wireless devices.
Tracking and estimating channel gains of wireless channels is therefore a
fundamentally important element of many wireless communication systems. In
particular, the receivers in many wireless networks need to estimate the
channel gains by means of a training sequence. This paper studies the scaling
law (on the network size) of the overhead for channel gain monitoring in
wireless network. We first investigate the scenario in which a receiver needs
to track the channel gains with respect to multiple transmitters. To be
concrete, suppose that there are n transmitters, and that in the current round
of channel-gain estimation, no more than k channels suffer significant
variations since the last round. We proves that "\Theta(k\log((n+1)/k)) time
slots" is the minimum number of time slots needed to catch up with the k varied
channels. At the same time, we propose a novel channel-gain monitoring scheme
named ADMOT to achieve the overhead lower-bound. ADMOT leverages recent
advances in compressive sensing in signal processing and interference
processing in wireless communication, to enable the receiver to estimate all n
channels in a reliable and computationally efficient manner within
O(k\log((n+1)/k)) time slots. To our best knowledge, all previous
channel-tracking schemes require \Theta(n) time slots regardless of k. Note
that based on above results for single receiver scenario, the scaling law of
general setting is achieved in which there are multiple transmitters, relay
nodes and receivers.