N-body dynamical simulations are used to analyze the conditions for the
gravitational stability of a three-dimensional stellar disk in the
gravitational field of two rigid spherical components--a bulge and a halo whose
central concentrations and relative masses vary over wide ranges. The number of
point masses N in the simulations varies from 40 to 500 thousands and the
evolution of the simulated models is followed over 10--20 rotation periods of
the outer edge of the disk. The initially unstable disks are heated and, as a
rule, reach a quasi-stationary equilibrium with a steady-state radial-velocity
dispersion $c_r$ over five to eight periods of rotation. The radial behavior of
the Toomre stability parameter $Q_T (r)$ for the final state of the disk is
estimated. Numerical models are used to analyze the dependence of the
gravitational stability of the disk on the relative masses of the spherical
components, disk thickness, degree of differential rotation, and initial state
of the disk. Formal application of existing, analytical, local criteria for
marginal stability of the disk can lead to errors in radial velocity dispersion
$c_r$ of more than a factor of 1.5. It is suggested that the approximate
constancy of $Q_T \simeq 1.2 -- 1.5$ for $r\simeq (1\div 2)\times L$ (where L
is the radial scale of disk surface density), valid for a wide range of models,
can be used to estimate upper limits for the mass and density of a disk based
on the observed distributions of the rotational velocity of the gaseous
component and of the stellar velocity dispersion.