The cosmological interpretation of weak lensing by large-scale structures
requires knowledge of the redshift distribution of the source galaxies. Current
lensing surveys are often calibrated using external redshift samples which span
a significantly smaller sky area in comparison to the lensing survey, and are
thus subject to sample variance. Some future lensing surveys are expected to be
calibrated in the same way, in particular the fainter galaxy populations where
the entire color coverage, and hence photometric redshift estimate, could be
challenging to obtain. Using N-body simulations, we study the impact of this
sample variance on cosmic shear analysis and show that, to first approximation,
it behaves like a shear calibration error 1+/-epsilon. Using the Hubble Deep
Field as a redshift calibration survey could therefore be a problem for current
lensing surveys. We discuss the impact of the redshift distribution sampling
error and a shear calibration error on the design of future lensing surveys,
and find that a lensing survey of area Theta square degrees and limiting
magnitude m_lim}, has a minimum shear and redshift calibration accuracy
requirements given by epsilon = epsilon_0 10^{beta(m_lim-24.5)} / sqrt(Theta/
200). Above that limit, lensing surveys would not reach their full potential.
Using the galaxy number counts from the Hubble Ultra-Deep Field, we find
(epsilon_0,beta)=(0.015,-0.18) and (epsilon_0,beta)=(0.011,-0.23) for ground
and space based surveys respectively. Lensing surveys with no or limited
redshift information and/or poor shear calibration accuracy will loose their
potential to analyse the cosmic shear signal in the sub-degree angular scales,
and therefore complete photometric redshift coverage should be a top priority
for future lensing surveys.