This paper aims to highlight distinctive features of the "SP theory of
intelligence" and its apparent advantages compared with some AI-related
alternatives. In summary, distinctive features and advantages are:
simplification and integration of observations and concepts; simplification and
integration of structures and processes in computing systems; the theory is
itself a theory of computing; the fundamental roles of information compression
via the matching and unification of patterns and multiple alignment;
transparency in the representation and processing of knowledge; the discovery
of `natural' structures via information compression (DONSVIC); interpretations
of mathematics; interpretations in human perception and cognition; and
realisation of abstract concepts in terms of neurons and their
inter-connections ("SP-neural"). These things are discussed in relation to
AI-related alternatives: the concept of minimum length encoding and related
concepts; deep learning in neural networks; unified theories of cognition and
related research; universal search; Bayesian networks and some other models for
AI; pattern recognition and vision; the analysis, production, and translation
of natural language; Unsupervised learning of natural language; exact and
inexact forms of reasoning; representation and processing of diverse forms of
knowledge; IBM's Watson; software engineering; solving problems associated with
big data, and in the development of intelligence in autonomous robots. In
conclusion, the SP system can provide a firm foundation for the long-term
development of AI, with many potential benefits and applications. It may also
deliver useful results on relatively short timescales. A high-parallel,
open-source version of the SP machine, derived from the SP computer model,
would be a means for researchers everywhere to explore what can be done with
the system, and to create new versions of it.