Context. During the last 30 years the surface of Pluto has been
characterized, and its variability has been monitored, through continuous
near-infrared spectroscopic observations. But in the visible range only few
data are available. Aims. The aim of this work is to define the Pluto's
relative reflectance in the visible range to characterize the different
components of its surface, and to provide ground based observations in support
of the New Horizons mission. Methods. We observed Pluto on six nights between
May and July 2014, with the imager/spectrograph ACAM at the William Herschel
Telescope (La Palma, Spain). The six spectra obtained cover a whole rotation of
Pluto (Prot = 6.4 days). For all the spectra we computed the spectral slope and
the depth of the absorption bands of methane ice between 0.62 and 0.90 $\mu$m.
To search for shifts of the center of the methane bands, associated with
dilution of CH4 in N2, we compared the bands with reflectances of pure methane
ice. Results. All the new spectra show the methane ice absorption bands between
0.62 and 0.90 $\mu$m. The computation of the depth of the band at 0.62 $\mu$m
in the new spectra of Pluto, and in the spectra of Makemake and Eris from the
literature, allowed us to estimate the Lambert coefficient at this wavelength,
at a temperature of 30 K and 40 K, never measured before. All the detected
bands are blue shifted, with minimum shifts in correspondence with the regions
where the abundance of methane is higher. This could be indicative of a
dilution of CH4:N2 more saturated in CH4. The longitudinal and secular
variations of the parameters measured in the spectra are in accordance with
results previously reported in the literature and with the distribution of the
dark and bright material that show the Pluto's albedo maps from New Horizons.