An increasing number of non-terminal eruptions are being found in the
numerous surveys for optical transients. Very little is known about these giant
eruptions, their progenitors and their evolutionary state. A greatly improved
census of the likely progenitor class, including the most luminous evolved
stars, the Luminous Blue Varaibles (LBVs), and the warm and cool hypergiants is
now needed for a complete picture of the final pre-SN stages of very massive
stars. We have begun a survey of the evolved and un stable luminous star
populations in several nearby resolved galaxies. In this second paper on M31
and M33, we review the spectral characteristics, spectral energy distributions,
circumstellar ejecta, and evidence for mass loss for 82 luminous and variable
stars.We show that many of these stars have warm circumstellar dust including
several of the Fe II emission line stars, but conclude that the confirmed LBVs
in M31 and M33 do not. The confirmed LBVs have relatively low wind speeds even
in their hot, quiescent or visual minimum state compared to the B-type
supergiants and Of/WN stars which they spectroscopically resemble. The nature
of the Fe II emis sion line stars and their relation to the LBV state remains
uncertain, but some have properties in common with the warm hypergiants and the
sgB[e] stars. Several individual stars are discussed in detail. We identify
three possible candidate LBVs and three additional post-red supergiant
candidates. We suggest that M33-013406.63 (UIT301,B416) is not an LBV/S Dor
variable, but is a very luminous late O-type supergiant and one of the most
luminous stars or pair of stars in M33.