It is generally accepted that astrophysical sources cannot emit synchrotron
radiation above 160 MeV in their rest frame. This limit is given by the balance
between the accelerating electric force and the radiation reaction force acting
on the electrons. The discovery of synchrotron gamma-ray flares in the Crab
Nebula, well above this limit, challenges this classical picture of particle
acceleration. To overcome this limit, particles must accelerate in a region of
high electric field and low magnetic field. This is possible only with a
non-ideal magnetohydrodynamic process, like magnetic reconnection. We present
the first numerical evidence of particle acceleration beyond the synchrotron
burnoff limit, using a set of 2D particle-in-cell simulations of
ultra-relativistic pair plasma reconnection. We use a new code, Zeltron, that
includes self-consistently the radiation reaction force in the equation of
motion of the particles. We demonstrate that the most energetic particles move
back and forth across the reconnection layer, following relativistic Speiser
orbits. These particles then radiate >160 MeV synchrotron radiation rapidly,
within a fraction of a full gyration, after they exit the layer. Our analysis
shows that the high-energy synchrotron flux is highly variable in time because
of the strong anisotropy and inhomogeneity of the energetic particles. We
discover a robust positive correlation between the flux and the cut-off energy
of the emitted radiation, mimicking the effect of relativistic Doppler
amplification. A strong guide field quenches the emission of >160 MeV
synchrotron radiation. Our results are consistent with the observed properties
of the Crab flares, supporting the reconnection scenario.