The mass domain where massive extrasolar planets and brown dwarfs lay is
still poorly understood. Indeed, not even a clear dividing line between massive
planets and brown dwarfs has been established yet. This is partly due to the
paucity of this kind of objects orbiting close to solar-type stars, the
so-called brown dwarf desert, that hinders setting up a strong observational
base to compare to models and theories of formation and evolution.
  We search to increase the current sample of massive sub-stellar objects with
precise orbital parameters, and to constrain the true mass of detected
sub-stellar candidates.
  The initial identification of sub-stellar candidates is done using precise
radial velocity measurements obtained with the SOPHIE spectrograph at the
1.93-m telescope of the Haute-Provence Observatory. Subsequent characterisation
of these candidates, with the principal aim of identifying stellar companions
in low-inclination orbits, is done by means of different spectroscopic
diagnostics, as the measurement of the bisector velocity span and the study of
the correlation mask effect. With this objective, we also employed astrometric
data from the Hipparcos mission and a novel method of simulating stellar
cross-correlation functions.
  Seven new objects with minimum masses between ~ 10 Mjup and ~90 Mjup are
detected. Out of these, two are identified as low-mass stars in low-inclination
orbits, and two others have masses below the theoretical deuterium-burning
limit, and are therefore planetary candidates. The remaining three are brown
dwarf candidates; the current upper limits for their the masses do not allow us
to conclude on their nature. Additionally, we have improved on the parameters
of an already-known brown dwarf (HD137510b), confirmed by astrometry.