(Abridged) We present CCD BVI photometry of 85 variable stars from the field
of the globular cluster NGC 6934. The photometry was obtained with the image
subtraction package ISIS. 35 variables are new identifications: 24 RRab stars,
5 RRc stars, 2 eclipsing binaries of W UMa-type, one SX Phe star, and 3
variables of other types. Both detected contact binaries are foreground stars.
The SX Phe variable belongs most likely to the group of cluster blue
stragglers. Large number of newly found RR Lyr variables in this cluster, as
well as in other clusters recently observed by us, indicates that total RR Lyr
population identified up to date in nearby galactic globular clusters is
significantly (>30%) incomplete.
  Fourier decomposition of the light curves of RRc variables was used to
estimate the basic properties of these stars: M=0.63 M_odot,
log(L/L_odot)=1.72, T_eff=7300 and Y=0.27. Using RRab variables we obtain:
M_V=0.81, [Fe/H]=-1.53 and T_eff=6450. From the B-V color at minimum light of
the RRab variables we obtained E(B-V)=0.09+-0.01. Different calibrations of
absolute magnitudes of RRab and RRc available in literature were used to
estimate apparent distance modulus of the cluster: (m-M)_V= 16.09+-0.06. We
note a likely error in the zero point of the HST-based V-band photometry of NGC
6934 recently presented by Piotto et al. Among analyzed sample of RR Lyr stars
we have detected a short period and low amplitude variable which possibly
belongs to the group of second overtone pulsators (RRe subtype variables).
  The BVI photometry of all variables is available electronically via anonymous
ftp. The complete set of the CCD frames is available upon request.