NASA's Interstellar Boundary Explorer (IBEX) mission has recently opened a
new window on the interstellar medium (ISM) by imaging neutral atoms. One
"bright" feature in the sky is the interstellar wind flowing into the solar
system. Composed of remnants of stellar explosions as well as primordial gas
and plasma, the ISM is by no means uniform. The interaction of the local ISM
with the solar wind shapes our heliospheric environment with hydrogen being the
dominant component of the very local ISM. In this paper, we report on direct
sampling of the neutral hydrogen of the local ISM over four years of IBEX
observations. The hydrogen wind observed at 1 AU has decreased and nearly
disappeared as the solar activity has increased over the last four years; the
signal at 1 AU has dropped off in 2012 by a factor of ~8 to near background
levels. The longitudinal offset has also increased with time presumably due to
greater radiation pressure deflecting the interstellar wind. We present
longitudinal and latitudinal arrival direction measurements of the bulk flow as
measured over four years beginning at near solar minimum conditions. The H
distribution we observe at 1 AU is expected to be different from that outside
the heliopause due to ionization, photon pressure, gravity, and filtration by
interactions with heliospheric plasma populations. These observations provide
an important benchmark for modeling of the global heliospheric interaction.
Based on these observations we suggest a further course of scientific action to
observe neutral hydrogen over a full solar cycle with IBEX.