We present low-resolution near-IR 0.8-2.5 um spectra of SN2009ip, taken
immediately before, during, and just after its rapid brightening in late
Sep/Oct 2012. The first epoch shows the same general spectral characteristics
as the later epochs (smooth continuum, narrow H and HeI emission lines), but
the IR continuum shape is substantially redder than the later epochs. The epoch
1 continuum can be approximated by reddening the peak-luminosity (epoch 3)
spectrum by E(B-V)=1.0 mag, but the blue color seen in visual-wavelength
spectra at the same time indicates that strong wavelength-dependent extinction
by circumstellar dust is not the correct explanation. Instead, we favor the
hypothesis that the redder color before the brightening arises from excess
emission from hot $\sim$2000 K circumstellar dust. The minimum radius (120 AU)
deduced from the dust temperature and observed luminosity of the transient,
combined with the observed expansion speed in the precursor outbursts of SN
2009ip, is consistent with an ejection at least 1.1 yr earlier. The mass of hot
dust indicated by the IR excess is 4x10$^{-7}$ Msun, although this is only a
lower limit since the near-IR data do not constrain the mass of cooler dust.
Thus, the observed pre-SN outbursts of this object were able to efficiently
form dust into which the SN ejecta and radiation now propagate. This is
consistent with the notion that the same pre-SN eruptions that generally give
rise to SNe IIn also give rise to the dust needed for their commonly observed
IR echoes. We also discuss some aspects of the IR line profiles, including HeI
10830.