In this paper we use the Cramer-Rao lower uncertainty bound to estimate the
maximum precision that could be achieved on the joint simultaneous (or 2D)
estimation of photometry and astrometry of a point source measured by a linear
CCD detector array. We develop exact expressions for the Fisher matrix elements
required to compute the Cramer-Rao bound in the case of a source with a
Gaussian light profile. From these expressions we predict the behavior of the
Cramer-Rao astrometric and photometric precision as a function of the signal
and the noise of the observations, and compare them to actual observations -
finding a good correspondence between them.
  We show that the astrometric Cramer-Rao bound goes as $(S/N)^{-1}$ (similar
to the photometric bound) but, additionally, we find that this bound is quite
sensitive to the value of the background - suppressing the background can
greatly enhance the astrometric accuracy.
  We present a systematic analysis of the elements of the Fisher matrix in the
case when the detector adequately samples the source (oversampling regime),
leading to closed-form analytical expressions for the Cramer-Rao bound. We show
that, in this regime, the joint parametric determination of photometry and
astrometry for the source become decoupled from each other, and furthermore, it
is possible to write down expressions (approximate to first order in the small
quantities F/B or B/F) for the expected minimum uncertainty in flux and
position. These expressions are shown to be quite resilient to the oversampling
condition, and become thus very valuable benchmark tools to estimate the
approximate behavior of the maximum photometric and astrometric precision
attainable under pre-specified observing conditions and detector properties.