Conductance histograms are a valuable tool to study the intrinsic conduction
properties of metallic atomic-sized contacts. These histograms show a peak
structure, which is characteristic of the type of metal under investigation.
Despite the enormous progress in the understanding of the electronic transport
in metallic nanowires, the origin of this peak structure is still a basic open
problem. In the present work we tackle this issue, extending our theoretical
analysis of Au conductance histograms [Dreher et al., PRB 72, 075435 (2005)] to
different types of metals, namely, Ag, Pt and ferromagnetic Ni. We combine
classical molecular dynamics simulations of the breaking of nanocontacts with
conductance calculations based on a tight-binding model. This combination gives
us access to crucial information such as contact geometries, strain forces,
minimum cross-sections, the conductance, transmissions of the individual
conduction channels and, in the case of Ni, the spin polarization of the
current. We shall also briefly discuss investigations of Al atomic-sized
contacts. From our analysis we conclude that the differences in the histograms
of these metals are due to (i) the very different electronic structures, which
means different atomic orbitals contributing to the transport, and (ii) the
different mechanical properties, which in a case like Pt lead to the formation
of special structures, namely monoatomic chains. Of particular interest are
results for Ni that indicate the absence of any conductance quantization, and
show how the current polarization evolves (including large fluctuations) from
negative values in thick contacts to even positive values in the tunneling
regime after rupture of the contact. Finally, we also present a detailed
analysis of the breaking forces of these metallic contacts.