We show that the observed scatter in the relations between the mass of
supermassive black holes (SMBHs), M_bh, and the velocity dispersion sigma or
mass M_sph of their host spheroid, place interesting constraints on the process
that regulates SMBH growth in galaxies. When combined with the observed
properties of early-type SDSS galaxies, the observed intrinsic scatters imply
that SMBH growth is regulated by the spheroid velocity dispersion rather than
its mass. The M_bh-M_sph relation is therefore a by-product of a more
fundamental M_bh-sigma relation. We construct a theoretical model for the
scatter among baryon modified dark matter halo profiles, out of which we
generate a population of spheroid hosts and show that these naturally lead to a
relation between effective radius and velocity dispersion of the form R_sph ~
sigma^1.5 with a scatter of ~0.2dex, in agreement with the corresponding
projection of the fundamental plane for early type galaxies in SDSS. At the
redshift of formation, our model predicts the minimum scatter that SMBHs can
have at fixed velocity dispersion or spheroid mass under different formation
scenarios. We also estimate the additional scatter that is introduced into
these relations through collisionless mergers of purely stellar spheroids at
z<1. We find that the observed scatter in the M_bh-sigma and M_bh-M_sph
relations preclude the properties of dark matter halos from being the governing
factor in SMBH growth. Finally, we show that SMBH growth governed by the
properties of the host spheroid can lead to the observed values of scatter in
the M_bh-sigma and M_bh-M_sph relations, only if the SMBH growth is limited by
momentum or energy feedback over the dynamical time of the host spheroid.