(Abridged) We present an XMM-Newton X-ray observation of the X-ray bright E2
elliptical galaxy NGC 4649. In addition to bright diffuse emission, we resolve
158 discrete sources, ~50 of which are likely to be low-mass X-ray binaries
(LMXBs) associated with NGC 4649. We find evidence for variability in three
sources between this observation and a previous Chandra observation.
Additionally, we detect five sources that were not detected with Chandra
despite its better detection limit, suggesting that these sources have since
brightened. The total X-ray spectrum of the resolved sources is well-fit by a
hard power-law, while the diffuse spectrum requires a hard and a soft
component, presumably due to the relatively soft diffuse gas and the harder
unresolved sources. A deprojection of the diffuse emission revealed a radial
temperature gradient that is hot in the center, drops to a minimum at about
20-50" (1.6-4.1 kpc), and rises again in the outer regions. The diffuse
emission appears to require a two-temperature model with heavy element
abundance ratios that differ from the solar values. We have verified the
existence of faint radial features extending out from the core of NGC 4649 that
had previously been seen with Chandra. The fingers are morphologically similar
to radial features seen in hydrodynamic simulations of cooling flows in
elliptical galaxies. We also find evidence for a longer, previously undetected
filament that extends to the northeastern edge of NGC 4649. We conclude that
the filament may be the result of a tidal interaction, possibly with NGC 4647,
though more work is necessary to verify this conclusion.