We present moderate resolution (~6 km/s) spectroscopy of 284 M giant
candidates selected from the Two Micron All Sky Survey photometry. Radial
velocities (RVs) are presented for stars mainly in the south, with a number
having positions consistent with association to the trailing tidal tail of the
Sagittarius (Sgr) dwarf galaxy. The latter show a clear RV trend with orbital
longitude, as expected from models of the orbit and destruction of Sgr. A
minimum 8 kpc width of the trailing stream about the Sgr orbital midplane is
implied by verified RV members. The coldness of this stream (dispersion ~10
km/s) provides upper limits on the combined contributions of stream heating by
a lumpy Galactic halo and the intrinsic dispersion of released stars, which is
a function of the Sgr core mass. The Sgr trailing arm is consistent with a
Galactic halo containing one dominant, LMC-like lump, however some lumpier
halos are not ruled out. An upper limit to the total M/L of the Sgr core is 21
in solar units. A second structure that roughly mimics expectations for
wrapped, leading Sgr arm debris crosses the trailing arm in the Southern
Hemisphere; however, this may also be an unrelated tidal feature. Among the <13
kpc M giants toward the South Galactic Pole are some with large RVs that
identify them as halo stars, perhaps part of the Sgr leading arm near the Sun.
The positions and RVs of Southern Hemisphere M giants are compared with those
of southern globular clusters potentially stripped from the Sgr system and
support for association of Pal 2 and Pal 12 with Sgr debris is found. Our
discussion includes description of a masked-filtered cross-correlation
methodology that achieves better than 1/20 of a resolution element RVs in
moderate resolution spectra.