We consider the asymptotically flat double-Kerr solution for two equal mass
black holes with either the same or opposite angular momentum and with a
massless strut between them. For fixed angular momentum and mass, the angular
velocity of two co-rotating Kerr black holes decreases as they approach one
another, from the Kerr value at infinite separation to the value of a single
Kerr black hole with twice the mass and the angular momentum at the horizons
merging limit. We show that the ratio J/M^2 for extremal co-rotating Kerr black
holes varies from unity at infinite separation to two at the merging limit.
These results are interpreted in terms of rotational dragging and compared with
the case of counter-rotating Kerr black holes. We then analyse the merging of
ergo-regions. In the co-rotating case the merger point occurs at an angle of
\pi/2, in agreement with recent general arguments. In the counter-rotating case
the ergo-regions never merge. We study the horizon geometry for both cases as a
function of the distance and provide embedding diagrams. Finally, we study the
thermodynamical evolution of the co-rotating double Kerr system, showing that,
in the canonical ensemble, it is thermodynamically stable for fast spinning
black holes. As for single Kerr black holes the stable and unstable phases are
separated by a second order phase transition. We show that for large fixed
angular momentum two Kerr black holes reach a minimum distance, before horizon
merging has occurred, where the thermodynamical approximation breaks down. We
also consider the micro-canonical ensemble to study the maximal energy that can
be extracted from the double Kerr system as a function of the separation
between the black holes.