By means of numerical simulations, we demonstrate that ac field can support
stably moving collective nonlinear excitations in the form of dislocations
(topological solitons, or kinks) in the Frenkel-Kontorova (FK) lattice with
weak friction, which was qualitatively predicted by Bonilla and Malomed [Phys.
Rev. B{\bf 43}, 11539 (1991)]. Direct generation of the moving dislocations
turns out to be virtually impossible; however, they can be generated initially
in the lattice subject to an auxiliary spatial modulation of the on-site
potential strength. Gradually relaxing the modulation, we are able to get the
stable moving dislocations in the uniform FK lattice with the periodic boundary
conditions, provided that the driving frequency is close to the gap frequency
of the linear excitations in the uniform lattice. The excitations have a large
and noninteger index of commensurability with the lattice (suggesting that its
actual value is irrational). The simulations reveal two different types of the
moving dislocations: broad ones, that extend, roughly, to half the full length
of the periodic lattice (in that sense, they cannot be called solitons), and
localized soliton-like dislocations, that can be found in an excited state,
demonstrating strong persistent internal vibrations. The minimum (threshold)
amplitude of the driving force necessary to support the traveling excitation is
found as a function of the friction coefficient. Its extrapolation suggests
that the threshold does not vanish at the zero friction, which may be explained
by radiation losses. The moving dislocation can be observed experimentally in
an array of coupled small Josephson junctions in the form of an {\it inverse
Josephson effect}, i.e., a dc-voltage response to the uniformly applied ac bias
current.