Coronal holes are the source regions of the fast solar wind, which fills most
of the solar system volume near the cycle minimum. Removing stray light from
extreme ultraviolet (EUV) images of the Sun's corona is of high astrophysical
importance, as it is required to make meaningful determinations of temperatures
and densities of coronal holes. EUV images tend to be dominated by the
component of the stray light due to the long-range scatter caused by
microroughness of telescope mirror surfaces, and this component has proven very
difficult to measure in pre-flight characterization. In-flight characterization
heretofore has proven elusive due to the fact that the detected image is
simultaneously nonlinear in two unknown functions: the stray light pattern and
the true image which would be seen by an ideal telescope. Using a constrained
blind deconvolution technique that takes advantage of known zeros in the true
image provided by a fortuitous lunar transit, we have removed the stray light
from solar images seen by the EUVI instrument on STEREO-B in all four filter
bands (171, 195, 284, and 304 \AA). Uncertainty measures of the stray light
corrected images, which include the systematic error due to misestimation of
the scatter, are provided. It is shown that in EUVI, stray light contributes up
to 70% of the emission in coronal holes seen on the solar disk, which has
dramatic consequences for diagnostics of temperature and density and therefore
estimates of key plasma parameters such as the plasma $\beta$\ and ion-electron
collision rates.