The Fornax Cluster Spectroscopic Survey (FCSS) project utilises the 2dF
multi-object spectrograph on the AAT. Its aim is to obtain spectra for a
complete sample of all 14000 objects with 16.5<bj<19.7 irrespective of their
morphology in a 12 sq deg area centred on the Fornax Cluster. A sample of 24
Fornax Cluster members has been identified from the first 2dF field (3.1 sq deg
in area) to be completed. This is the first complete smaple of cluster objects
of known distance with well defined selection limits. 19 of the galaxies (with
-15.8<M_B<-12.7) appear to be conventional dwarf elliptical or dwarf S0
galaxies. The other 5 objects (with -13.6<M_B<-11.3) are those galaxies which
we described in Drinkwater et al (2002b) and labelled `Ultra-Compact Dwarfs'
(UCDs). A major result is that the conventional dwarfs all have scale-sizes>3
arcsec (abut 300 pc). This apparent minimum scale size implies an equivalent
minimum luminosity for a dwarf of a given surface brightness. This produces a
limit on their distribution in the magnitude-surface brightness plane, such
that we do not observe dEs with high surface brightnesses but faint absolute
magnitudes. Above this observed minimum scale-size of 3 arcsec, the dEs and
dS0s fill the whole area of the magnitude-surface brightness plane sampled by
our selection limits. The observed correlation between magnitude and surface
brightness noted by several recent studies of brighter galaxies is not seen
with our fainter cluster sample. A comparison of our results with the Fornax
Cluster Catalog (FCC) of Ferguson illustrates that attempts to determine
cluster membership solely on the basis of observed morphology can produce
significant errors.