We derive an integral condition for core-collapse supernova explosions and
use it to construct a new diagnostic of explodability. The fundamental
challenge in core-collapse supernova theory is to explain how a stalled
accretion shock revives to explode a star. In this manuscript, we assume that
shock revival is initiated by the delayed-neutrino mechanism and derive an
integral condition for shock expansion, $v_s > 0$. Assuming that $v_s > 0$
corresponds to explosion, we recast this integral condition as a dimensionless
condition for explosion, $\Psi > 0$. Using 1D simulations, we confirm that
$\Psi = 0$ during the stalled phase and $\Psi > 0$ during explosion. Having
validated the integral condition, we use it to derive a useful explosion
diagnostic. First, for a given set of parameters, we find the family of
solutions to the steady-state equations, parameterized by shock radius $R_s$,
yielding $\Psi(R_s)$. For any particular solution, $\Psi(R_s)$ may be negative,
zero, or positive, and, since $\Psi \propto v_s$, this corresponds to a
solution with a receding, stationary, or expanding shock, respectively. Within
this family, there is always a solution with a minimum $\Psi$, $\Psi_{\rm
min}$. When $\Psi_{\rm min} < 0$, there always exists a stalled accretion shock
solution, but when $\Psi_{\rm min} > 0$, all solutions have $v_s > 0$.
Therefore, $\Psi_{\rm min} = 0$ defines a critical hypersurface for explosion,
and we show that the critical neutrino luminosity curve proposed by Burrows \&
Goshy (1993) is a projection of this more general critical condition. Finally,
we propose and verify with 1D simulations that $\Psi_{\rm min}$ is a reliable
and accurate explosion diagnostic.