We present high-speed, three-colour photometry of the eclipsing cataclysmic
variables CTCV 1300, CTCV 2354 and SDSS 1152. All three systems are below the
observed "period gap" for cataclysmic variables. For each system we determine
the system parameters by fitting a parameterised model to the observed eclipse
light curve by chi-squared minimisation. We also present an updated analysis of
all other eclipsing systems previously analysed by our group. New donor masses
are generally between 1 and 2 sigma of those originally published, with the
exception of SDSS 1502 and DV UMa. We note that the donor mass of SDSS 1501 has
been revised upwards by 0.024Msun. This system was previously identified as
having evolved passed the minimum orbital period for cataclysmic variables, but
the new mass determination suggests otherwise. Our new analysis confirms that
SDSS 1035 and SDSS 1433 have evolved past the period minimum for cataclysmic
variables, corroborating our earlier studies. We find that the radii of donor
stars are oversized when compared to theoretical models, by approximately 10
percent. We show that this can be explained by invoking either enhanced angular
momentum loss, or by taking into account the effects of star spots. We are
unable to favour one cause over the other, as we lack enough precise mass
determinations for systems with orbital periods between 100 and 130 minutes,
where evolutionary tracks begin to diverge significantly. We also find a strong
tendency towards high white dwarf masses within our sample, and no evidence for
any He-core white dwarfs. The dominance of high mass white dwarfs implies that
erosion of the white dwarf during the nova outburst must be negligible, or that
not all of the mass accreted is ejected during nova cycles, resulting in the
white dwarf growing in mass. (Abridged)