We first derive the Hamiltonian for Lovelock gravity and find that it takes
the same form as in general relativity when written in terms of the
Misner-Sharp mass function. We then minimally couple the action to matter
fields to find Hamilton's equations of motion. These are gauge fixed to be in
the Painlev\'e-Gullstrand co-ordinates and are well suited to numerical studies
of black hole formation.
  We then use these equations of motion for the massless scalar field to study
the formation of general relativistic black holes in four to eight dimensions
and Einstein-Gauss-Bonnet black holes in five and six dimensions. We study
Choptuik scaling, a phenomenon which relates the initial conditions of a matter
distribution to the final observables of small black holes.
  In both higher dimensional general relativity and Einstein-Gauss-Bonnet
gravity we confirm the existence of cusps in the mass scaling relation which
had previously only been observed in four dimensional general relativity. In
the general relativistic case we then calculate the critical exponents for four
to eight dimensions and find agreement with previous calculations by Bland et.
al. but not Sorkin et. al. who both worked in null co-ordinates.
  For the Einstein-Gauss-Bonnet case we find that the self-similar behaviour
seen in the general relativistic case is destroyed. We find that it is replaced
by some other form of scaling structure. In five dimensions we find that the
period of the critical solution at the origin is proportional to roughly the
cube root of the Gauss-Bonnet parameter and that there is evidence for a
minimum black hole radius. In six dimensions we see evidence for a new type of
scaling. We also show, from the equations of motion, that there is reason to
expect qualitative differences between five and higher dimensions.