We present high-cadence observations and simulations of the solar
photosphere, obtained using the Rapid Oscillations in the Solar Atmosphere
imaging system and the MuRAM magneto-hydrodynamic code, respectively. Each
dataset demonstrates a wealth of magneto-acoustic oscillatory behaviour,
visible as periodic intensity fluctuations with periods in the range 110-600 s.
Almost no propagating waves with periods less than 140s and 110s are detected
in the observational and simulated datasets, respectively. High concentrations
of power are found in highly magnetised regions, such as magnetic bright points
and intergranular lanes. Radiative diagnostics of the photospheric simulations
replicate our observational results, confirming that the current breed of
magneto-hydrodynamic simulations are able to accurately represent the lower
solar atmosphere. All observed oscillations are generated as a result of
naturally occurring magnetoconvective processes, with no specific input driver
present. Using contribution functions extracted from our numerical simulations,
we estimate minimum G-band and 4170 Angstrom continuum formation heights of 100
km and 25 km, respectively. Detected magneto-acoustic oscillations exhibit a
dominant phase delay of -8 degrees between the G-band and 4170 Angstrom
continuum observations, suggesting the presence of upwardly propagating waves.
More than 73% of MBPs (73% from observations, 96% from simulations) display
upwardly propagating wave phenomena, suggesting the abundant nature of
oscillatory behaviour detected higher in the solar atmosphere may be traced
back to magnetoconvective processes occurring in the upper layers of the Sun's
convection zone.