For the mean-field version of an important lattice-spin model due to Blume
and Capel, we prove unexpected connections among the asymptotic behavior of the
magnetization, the structure of the phase transitions, and a class of
polynomials that we call the Ginzburg-Landau polynomials. The model depends on
the parameters n, beta, and K, which represent, respectively, the number of
spins, the inverse temperature, and the interaction strength. Our main focus is
on the asymptotic behavior of the magnetization m(beta_n,K_n) for appropriate
sequences (beta_n,K_n) that converge to a second-order point or to the
tricritical point of the model and that lie inside various subsets of the
phase-coexistence region. The main result states that as (beta_n,K_n) converges
to one of these points (beta,K), m(beta_n,K_n) ~ c |beta - beta_n|^gamma --> 0.
In this formula gamma is a positive constant, and c is the unique positive,
global minimum point of a certain polynomial g that we call the Ginzburg-Landau
polynomial. This polynomial arises as a limit of appropriately scaled
free-energy functionals, the global minimum points of which define the
phase-transition structure of the model. For each sequence (beta_n,K_n) under
study, the structure of the global minimum points of the associated
Ginzburg-Landau polynomial mirrors the structure of the global minimum points
of the free-energy functional in the region through which (beta_n,K_n) passes
and thus reflects the phase-transition structure of the model in that region.
The properties of the Ginzburg-Landau polynomials make rigorous the predictions
of the Ginzburg-Landau phenomenology of critical phenomena, and the asymptotic
formula for m(beta_n,K_n) makes rigorous the heuristic scaling theory of the
tricritical point.