The recently discovered subdwarf B (sdB) pulsator KIC7668647 is one of the 18
pulsating sdB stars detected in the Kepler field. It features a rich g-mode
frequency spectrum, with a few low-amplitude p-modes at short periods.
  We use new ground-based low-resolution spectroscopy, and the near-continuous
2.88 year Kepler lightcurve, to reveal that KIC7668647 consists of a subdwarf B
star with an unseen white-dwarf companion with an orbital period of 14.2d. An
orbit with a radial-velocity amplitude of 39km/s is consistently determined
from the spectra, from the orbital Doppler beaming seen by Kepler at 163ppm,
and from measuring the orbital light-travel delay of 27 by timing of the many
pulsations seen in the Kepler lightcurve. The white dwarf has a minimum mass of
0.40 M_sun.
  We use our high signal-to-noise average spectra to study the atmospheric
parameters of the sdB star, and find that nitrogen and iron have abundances
close to solar values, while helium, carbon, oxygen and silicon are
underabundant relative to the solar mixture.
  We use the full Kepler Q06--Q17 lightcurve to extract 132 significant
pulsation frequencies. Period-spacing relations and multiplet splittings allow
us to identify the modal degree L for the majority of the modes. Using the
g-mode multiplet splittings we constrain the internal rotation period at the
base of the envelope to 46-48d as a first seismic result for this star. The few
p-mode splittings may point at a slightly longer rotation period further out in
the envelope of the star.
  From mode-visibility considerations we derive that the inclination of the
rotation axis of the sdB in KIC7668647 must be around ~60 degrees.
  Furthermore, we find strong evidence for a few multiplets indicative of
degree 3 <= L <= 8, which is another novelty in sdB-star observations made
possible by Kepler.