We use a set of high-resolution cosmological N-body simulations to
investigate the inner mass profile of galaxy-sized cold dark matter (CDM)
halos. These simulations extend the thorough numerical convergence study
presented in Paper I of this series (Power et al. 2003), and demonstrate that
the mass profile of CDM halos can be robustly estimated beyond a minimum
converged radius of order r_conv ~ 1 kpc/h in our highest resolution runs. The
density profiles of simulated halos become progressively shallow from the
virial radius inwards, and show no sign of approaching a well-defined power-law
behaviour near the centre. At r_conv, the logarithmic slope of the density
profile is steeper than the asymptotic \rho \propto r^-1 expected from the
formula proposed by Navarro, Frenk, and White (1996), but significantly
shallower than the steeply divergent \rho \propto r^-1.5 cusp proposed by Moore
et al. (1999). We perform a direct comparison of the spherically-averaged dark
matter circular velocity (V_c) profiles with rotation curves of low surface
brightness (LSB) galaxies from the samples of de Blok et al. (2001), de Blok
and Bosma (2002), and Swaters et al. (2003). Most (about two-thirds) LSB
galaxies in this dataset are roughly consistent with CDM halo V_c profiles.
However, about one third of LSBs in these samples feature a sharp transition
between the rising and flat part of the rotation curve that is not seen in the
V_c profiles of CDM halos. This discrepancy has been interpreted as excluding
the presence of cusps, but we argue that it might simply reflect the difference
between circular velocity and gas rotation speed likely to arise in gaseous
disks embedded within realistic, triaxial CDM halos.