We have analyzed high spatial, moderate spectral resolution observations of
Eta Carinae obtained with the STIS from 1998.0 to 2004.3. The spectra show
prominent P-Cygni lines in H I, Fe II and He I which are complicated by blends
and contamination by nebular emission and absorption along the line-of-sight
toward the observer. All lines show phase and species dependent variations in
emission and absorption. For most of the cycle the He I emission is blueshifted
relative to the H I and Fe II P-Cygni emission lines, which are approximately
centered at system velocity. The blueshifted He I absorption varies in
intensity and velocity throughout the 2024 day period. We construct radial
velocity curves for the absorption component of the He I and H I lines. The He
I absorption shows significant radial velocity variations throughout the cycle,
with a rapid change of over 200 km/s near the 2003.5 event. The H I velocity
curve is similar to that of the He I absorption, though offset in phase and
reduced in amplitude. We interpret the complex line profile variations in He I,
H I and Fe II to be a consequence of the dynamic interaction of the dense wind
of Eta Car A with the less dense, faster wind plus the radiation field of a hot
companion star, Eta Car B. During most of the orbit, Eta Car B and the He+
recombination zone are on the near side of Eta Car A, producing blueshifted He
I emission. He I absorption is formed in the part of the He+ zone that
intersects the line-of-sight toward Eta Car. We use the variations seen in He I
and the other P-Cygni lines to constrain the geometry of the orbit and the
character of Eta Car B.