A large amount of magnetized plasma is frequently ejected from the Sun as
coronal mass ejections (CMEs). Some of these ejections are detected in the
solar wind as magnetic clouds (MCs) that have flux rope signatures. Magnetic
clouds are structures that typically expand in the inner heliosphere. We derive
the expansion properties of MCs in the outer heliosphere from one to five
astronomical units to compare them with those in the inner heliosphere. We
analyze MCs observed by the Ulysses spacecraft using insitu magnetic field and
plasma measurements. The MC boundaries are defined in the MC frame after
defining the MC axis with a minimum variance method applied only to the flux
rope structure. As in the inner heliosphere, a large fraction of the velocity
profile within MCs is close to a linear function of time. This is indicative
of} a self-similar expansion and a MC size that locally follows a power-law of
the solar distance with an exponent called zeta. We derive the value of zeta
from the insitu velocity data. We analyze separately the non-perturbed MCs
(cases showing a linear velocity profile almost for the full event), and
perturbed MCs (cases showing a strongly distorted velocity profile). We find
that non-perturbed MCs expand with a similar non-dimensional expansion rate
(zeta=1.05+-0.34), i.e. slightly faster than at the solar distance and in the
inner heliosphere (zeta=0.91+-0.23). The subset of perturbed MCs expands, as in
the inner heliosphere, at a significantly lower rate and with a larger
dispersion (zeta=0.28+-0.52) as expected from the temporal evolution found in
numerical simulations. This local measure of the expansion also agrees with the
distribution with distance of MC size,mean magnetic field, and plasma
parameters. The MCs interacting with a strong field region, e.g. another MC,
have the most variable expansion rate (ranging from compression to
over-expansion).