We consider a self-similar force-free wind flowing out of an infinitely thin
disk located in the equatorial plane. On the disk plane, we assume that the
magnetic stream function $P$ scales as $P\propto R^\nu$, where $R$ is the
cylindrical radius. We also assume that the azimuthal velocity in the disk is
constant: $v_\phi = Mc$, where $M<1$ is a constant. For each choice of the
parameters $\nu$ and $M$, we find an infinite number of solutions that are
physically well-behaved and have fluid velocity $\leq c$ throughout the domain
of interest. Among these solutions, we show via physical arguments and
time-dependent numerical simulations that the minimum-torque solution, i.e.,
the solution with the smallest amount of toroidal field, is the one picked by a
real system. For $\nu \geq 1$, the Lorentz factor of the outflow increases
along a field line as $\gamma \approx M(z/\Rfp)^{(2-\nu)/2} \approx R/R_{\rm
A}$, where $\Rfp$ is the radius of the foot-point of the field line on the disk
and $R_{\rm A}=\Rfp/M$ is the cylindrical radius at which the field line
crosses the Alfven surface or the light cylinder. For $\nu < 1$, the Lorentz
factor follows the same scaling for $z/\Rfp < M^{-1/(1-\nu)}$, but at larger
distances it grows more slowly: $\gamma \approx (z/\Rfp)^{\nu/2}$. For either
regime of $\nu$, the dependence of $\gamma$ on $M$ shows that the rotation of
the disk plays a strong role in jet acceleration. On the other hand, the
poloidal shape of a field line is given by $z/\Rfp \approx
(R/\Rfp)^{2/(2-\nu)}$ and is independent of $M$. Thus rotation has neither a
collimating nor a decollimating effect on field lines, suggesting that
relativistic astrophysical jets are not collimated by the rotational winding up
of the magnetic field.