Among many other measurable quantities the summer of 2009 saw a considerable
low in the radiative output of the Sun that was temporally coincident with the
largest cosmic ray flux ever measured at 1AU. A hemispheric asymmetry in
magnetic activity is clearly observed and its evolution monitored and the
resulting (prolonged) magnetic imbalance must have had a considerable impact on
the structure and energetics of the heliosphere. While we cannot uniquely tie
the variance and scale of the surface magnetism to the dwindling radiative and
particulate output of the star, or the increased cosmic ray flux through the
2009 minimum, the timing of the decline and rapid recovery in early 2010 would
appear to inextricably link them. These observations support a picture where
the Sun's hemispheres are significantly out of phase with each other. Studying
historical sunspot records with this picture in mind shows that the northern
hemisphere has been leading since the middle of the last century and that the
hemispheric "dominance" has changed twice in the past 130 years. The
observations presented give clear cause for concern, especially with respect to
our present understanding of the processes that produce the surface magnetism
in the (hidden) solar interior - hemispheric asymmetry is the normal state -
the strong symmetry shown in 1996 was abnormal. Further, these observations
show that the mechanism(s) which create and transport the magnetic flux
magnetic flux are slowly changing with time and, it appears, with only loose
coupling across the equator such that those asymmetries can persist for a
considerable time. As the current asymmetry persists and the basal energetics
of the system continue to dwindle we anticipate new radiative and particulate
lows coupled with increased cosmic ray fluxes heading into the next solar
minimum.