The cranked relativistic Hartree-Bogoliubov (CRHB) theory has been applied
for a systematic study of pairing and rotational properties of actinides and
light superheavy nuclei. Pairing correlations are taken into account by the
Brink-Booker part of finite range Gogny D1S force. For the first time in the
covariant density functional theory (CDFT) framework the pairing properties are
studied via the quantities (such as three-point $\Delta^{(3)}$ indicators)
related to odd-even mass staggerings. The investigation of the moments of
inertia at low spin and the $\Delta^{(3)}$ indicators shows the need for an
attenuation of the strength of the Brink-Booker part of the Gogny D1S force in
pairing channel. The investigation of rotational properties of even-even and
odd-mass nuclei at normal deformation, performed in the density functional
theory framework in such a systematic way for the first time, reveals that in
the majority of the cases the experimental data are well described. These
include the evolution of the moments of inertia with spin, band crossings in
the $A\geq 242$ nuclei, the impact of the particle in specific orbital on the
moments of inertia in odd-mass nuclei. The analysis of the discrepancies
between theory and experiment in the band crossing region of $A\leq 240$ nuclei
suggests the stabilization of octupole deformation at high spin, not included
in the present calculations. The evolution of pairing with deformation, which
is important for the fission barriers, has been investigated via the analysis
of the moments of inertia in the superdeformed minimum. The dependence of the
results on the CDFT parametrization has been studied by comparing the results
of the calculations obtained with the NL1 and NL3* parametrizations.