In this last Paper III additional evidences that the solar high energetic
particles radiation with energies higher as 100 MeV (the solar cosmic rays SCR)
is an very important component for the "Sun- climate" relationship are given
(see also Paper I and II). The total solar irradiance (TSI) and the galactic
cosmic rays (GCR) variations given an integral climate effect of cooling in
sunspot minima and warming in the sunspot maxima. Unlike the both ones the
powerful solar corpuscular events plays a cooling climate role during the
epochs of their heigh levels. By this one subcenturial global and regional
temperature quasi- cyclic changes by duration of approximately 60 years could
be track during the last 150 years of instrumental climate observations . It
has been also evided in the paper that this subcenturial oscilation is very
important in the Group sunspot number (GSN) data series since the Maunder
minimum up to the end of 20th century. Thus the solar erruptive activity effect
make the total "Sun -climate" relationship essentially more complicated as it
could be follow when only the TSI and GCR variations are taken into account. In
this light the climate warming tendency after AD 1975 is rather by a natural as
by an antropogenic origin. Most probably the last one is very close related to
the general downward tendency of erruptive solar events which is superimposed
over the high long term TSI levels during the last three decades (AD
1975-2007). It is evided, that the efficiency of the solar corpuscular activuty
over the climate is strongly depended by the "north-south" asymmetry of the
solar activity centers (as a proxy the sunspots area north-south asymmetry
index A is used there). The climate cooling effect in the Northern hemisphere
is most powerful during the epochs of positive values of A.