We study the density structure of candidate contracting starless core L694-2
using 1.3 mm dust continuum observations from the IRAM Plateau de Bure
Interferometer and the Berkeley-Illinois-Maryland Array, probing spatial scales
from 10000-500 AU. The long baseline PdBI observations detect no emission, and
limit the contamination from a compact component F_c < 2.7 mJy. This limit
corresponds to a very small disk mass, M_disk < 5e-4 M_sun x (60 K / T_disk),
and bolsters the ``starless'' interpretation of the core. The shorter baseline
BIMA data are compared to density models using a physically motivated
temperature distribution with a central minimum. This analysis provides clear
evidence for a turn-over from the steep outer density profile observed in dust
extinction to much more shallow behavior in the inner regions (<7500 AU). The
best fit Bonnor-Ebert, Plummer-like, broken power law, and end-on cylinder
models produce very similar flattened profiles and cannot be distinguished. We
quantify the sensitivity of the inferred structure to various uncertainties,
including the temperature distribution, the central position, and the presence
of a weak unresolved central component. The largest uncertainty comes from the
temperature assumption; an isothermal model modifies the best fit parameters by
\~2 sigma, with the inferred profiles more shallow. Dust emission and
extinction profiles are reproduced by an embedded cylinder with scale height
H=13.5'' inclined at a small angle to the line of sight. The flat central
density profile suggests that pressure forces still support the core, despite
the extended inward motions inferred from molecular line observations (Lee,
Myers, & Tafalla 2001). In the context of the cylindrical density model, these
inward motions may represent the contraction of a prolate core along its major
axis.