We study the relationship of the 27-day variation of the galactic cosmic ray
intensity with similar changes of the solar wind velocity and the
interplanetary magnetic field based on the experimental data for the Bartels
rotation period 2379 of 23 November 2007-19 December 2007. We develop a three
dimensional (3-D) model of the 27-day variation of galactic cosmic ray
intensity based on the heliolongitudinally dependent solar wind velocity. A
consistent, divergence-free interplanetary magnetic field is derived by solving
Maxwells equations with a heliolongitudinally dependent 27-day variation of the
solar wind velocity reproducing in situ observations. We consider two types of
3-D models of the 27-day variation of galactic cosmic ray intensity - (1) with
a plane heliospheric neutral sheet, and (2)- with the sector structure of the
interplanetary magnetic field. The theoretical calculation shows that the
sector structure does not influence significantly on the 27-day variation of
galactic cosmic ray intensity as it was shown before based on the experimental
data. Also a good agreement is found between the time profiles of the
theoretically expected and experimentally obtained first harmonic waves of the
27-day variation of the galactic cosmic ray intensity (correlation coefficient
equals 0.98 0.02). The expected 27-day variation of the galactic cosmic ray
intensity is inversely correlated with the modulation parameter z (correlation
coefficient equals -0.91 0.05) which is proportional to the product of the
solar wind velocity V and the strength of the interplanetary magnetic field B
(z VB). The high anticorrelation between these quantities indicates that the
predictable 27-day variation of the galactic cosmic ray intensity mainly is
caused by this basic modulation effect.