State-of-the-art ab initio techniques have been applied to compute the
potential energy surface for the lithium atom interacting with the lithium
hydride molecule in the Born-Oppenheimer approximation. The interaction
potential was obtained using a combination of the explicitly correlated
unrestricted coupled-cluster method with single, double, and noniterative
triple excitations [UCCSD(T)-F12] for the core-core and core-valence
correlation and full configuration interaction for the valence-valence
correlation. The potential energy surface has a global minimum 8743 cm^{-1}
deep if the Li-H bond length is held fixed at the monomer equilibrium distance
or 8825 cm^{-1} deep if it is allowed to vary. In order to evaluate the
performance of the conventional CCSD(T) approach, calculations were carried out
using correlation-consistent polarized valence X-tuple-zeta bases, with X
ranging from 2 to 5. The contribution beyond the CCSD(T)-F12 model, obtained
from full configuration interaction (FCI) calculations for the valence-valence
correlation, was shown to be very small. At linear LiH-Li geometries the
ground-state potential shows an avoided crossing with an ion-pair
potential.Using both adiabatic and diabatic pictures we analyse the interaction
between the two potential energy surfaces and its possible impact on the
collisional dynamics. When the LiH bond is allowed to vary, a seam of conical
intersections appears at C_{2v} geometries. At the linear LiH-Li geometry, the
conical intersection is at a Li-H distance which is only slightly larger than
the monomer equilibrium distance, but for nonlinear geometries it quickly
shifts to Li-H distances that are well outside the classical turning points of
the ground-state potential of LiH. Finally, the reaction channels for the
exchange and insertion reactions are also analyzed.