We carried out BVRI CCD photometric observations in the field of V582 Aur
from 2009 August to 2013 February. We acquired high-, medium-, and
low-resolution spectroscopy of V582 Aur during this period. To study the
pre-outburst variability of the target and construct its historical light
curve, we searched for archival observations in photographic plate collections.
Both CCD and photographic observations were analyzed using a sequence of 14
stars in the field of V582 Aur calibrated in BVRI. The pre-outburst
photographic observations of V582 Aur show low-amplitude light variations
typical of T Tauri stars. Archival photographic observations indicate that the
increase in brightness began in late 1984 or early 1985 and the star reached
the maximum level of brightness at 1986 January. The spectral type of V582 Aur
can be defined as G0I with strong P Cyg profiles of H alpha and Na I D lines,
which are typical of FU Orionis objects. Our BVRI photometric observations show
large amplitude variations V~2.8 mag. during the 3.5 year period of
observations. Most of the time, however, the star remains in a state close to
the maximum brightness. The deepest drop in brightness was observed in the
spring of 2012, when the brightness of the star fell to a level close to the
pre-outburst. The multicolor photometric data show a color reversal during the
minimum in brightness, which is typical of UX Ori variables. The corresponding
spectral observations show strong variability in the profiles and intensities
of the spectral lines (especially H alpha), which indicate significant changes
in the accretion rate. On the basis of photometric monitoring performed over
the past three years, the spectral properties of the maximal light, and the
shape of the long-term light curve, we confirm the affiliation of V582 Aur to
the group of FU Orionis objects.