We investigate the notion of stability proposed by Bilu and Linial. We obtain
an exact polynomial-time algorithm for $\gamma$-stable Max Cut instances with
$\gamma \geq c\sqrt{\log n}\log\log n$ for some absolute constant $c > 0$. Our
algorithm is robust: it never returns an incorrect answer; if the instance is
$\gamma$-stable, it finds the maximum cut, otherwise, it either finds the
maximum cut or certifies that the instance is not $\gamma$-stable. We prove
that there is no robust polynomial-time algorithm for $\gamma$-stable instances
of Max Cut when $\gamma < \alpha_{SC}(n/2)$, where $\alpha_{SC}$ is the best
approximation factor for Sparsest Cut with non-uniform demands.
  Our algorithm is based on semidefinite programming. We show that the standard
SDP relaxation for Max Cut (with $\ell_2^2$ triangle inequalities) is integral
if $\gamma \geq D_{\ell_2^2\to \ell_1}(n)$, where $D_{\ell_2^2\to \ell_1}(n)$
is the least distortion with which every $n$ point metric space of negative
type embeds into $\ell_1$. On the negative side, we show that the SDP
relaxation is not integral when $\gamma < D_{\ell_2^2\to \ell_1}(n/2)$.
Moreover, there is no tractable convex relaxation for $\gamma$-stable instances
of Max Cut when $\gamma < \alpha_{SC}(n/2)$. That suggests that solving
$\gamma$-stable instances with $\gamma =o(\sqrt{\log n})$ might be difficult or
impossible.
  Our results significantly improve previously known results. The best
previously known algorithm for $\gamma$-stable instances of Max Cut required
that $\gamma \geq c\sqrt{n}$ (for some $c > 0$) [Bilu, Daniely, Linial, and
Saks]. No hardness results were known for the problem. Additionally, we present
an algorithm for 4-stable instances of Minimum Multiway Cut. We also study a
relaxed notion of weak stability.