Aims: We investigate how well modeled solar irradiances agree with
measurements from the SORCE satellite, both for total solar irradiance and
broken down into spectral regions on timescales of several years. Methods: We
use the SATIRE model and compare modeled total solar irradiance (TSI) with TSI
measurements between 2003 and 2009. Spectral solar irradiance over 200-1630nm
is compared with the SIM instrument on SORCE between 2004 and 2009 during a
period of decline from moderate activity to the recent solar minimum in 10 nm
bands and for three spectral regions of significant interest: the UV integrated
over 200-300nm, the visible over 400-691nm and the IR between 972-1630 nm.
Results: The model captures 97% of observed TSI variation. In the spectral
comparison, rotational variability is well reproduced, especially between 400
and 1200 nm. The magnitude of change in the long-term trends is many times
larger in SIM at almost all wavelengths while trends in SIM oppose SATIRE in
the visible between 500 and 700nm and between 1000 and 1200nm. We discuss the
remaining issues with both SIM data and the identified limits of the model,
particularly with the way facular contributions are dealt with, the limit of
flux identification in MDI magnetograms during solar minimum and the model
atmospheres in the IR employed by SATIRE. It is unlikely that improvements in
these areas will significantly enhance the agreement in the long-term trends.
This disagreement implies that some mechanism other than surface magnetism is
causing SSI variations, in particular between 2004 and 2006, if the SIM data
are correct. Since SATIRE was able to reproduce UV irradiance between 1991 and
2002 from UARS, either the solar mechanism for SSI variation fundamentally
changed around the peak of cycle 23, or there is an inconsistency between UARS
and SORCE UV measurements. We favour the second explanation.