We perform 2.5D axisymmetric simulations of the pulsar magnetosphere (aligned
dipole rotator) using the charge conservative, relativistic, electromagnetic
particle in cell code PICsar. Particle in cell codes are a powerful tool to use
for studying the pulsar magnetosphere, because they can handle the force-free
and vacuum limits and provide a self-consistent treatment of magnetic
reconnection. In the limit of dense plasma throughout the magnetosphere, our
solutions are everywhere in the force-free regime except for dissipative
regions at the polar caps, in the current layers, and at the Y-point. These
dissipative regions arise self-consistently, since we do not have any explicit
dissipation in the code. A minimum of $ \approx 15-20\%$ of the electromagnetic
spindown luminosity is transferred to the particles inside 5 light cylinder
radii. However, the particles can carry as much as $\gtrsim 50 \%$ of the
spindown luminosity if there is insufficient plasma in the outer magnetosphere
to screen the component of electric field parallel to the magnetic field. In
reality, the component of the spindown luminosity carried by the particles
could be radiated as gamma rays, but high-frequency synchrotron emission would
need to be implemented as a sub-grid process in our simulations and is not
present for the current suite of runs. The value of the spindown luminosity in
our simulations is within $\approx 10\%$ of the force-free value, and the
structure of the electromagnetic fields in the magnetosphere is on the whole
consistent with the force-free model.