Consider the \emph{simultaneous relay channel} (SRC) which consists of a set
of relay channels where the source wishes to transmit common and private
information to each of the destinations. This problem is recognized as being
equivalent to that of sending common and private information to several
destinations in presence of helper relays where each channel outcome becomes a
branch of the \emph{broadcast relay channel} (BRC). Cooperative schemes and
capacity region for a set with two memoryless relay channels are investigated.
The proposed coding schemes, based on \emph{Decode-and-Forward} (DF) and
\emph{Compress-and-Forward} (CF) must be capable of transmitting information
simultaneously to all destinations in such set.
  Depending on the quality of source-to-relay and relay-to-destination
channels, inner bounds on the capacity of the general BRC are derived. Three
cases of particular interest are considered: cooperation is based on DF
strategy for both users --referred to as DF-DF region--, cooperation is based
on CF strategy for both users --referred to as CF-CF region--, and cooperation
is based on DF strategy for one destination and CF for the other --referred to
as DF-CF region--. These results can be seen as a generalization and hence
unification of previous works. An outer-bound on the capacity of the general
BRC is also derived. Capacity results are obtained for the specific cases of
semi-degraded and degraded Gaussian simultaneous relay channels. Rates are
evaluated for Gaussian models where the source must guarantee a minimum amount
of information to both users while additional information is sent to each of
them.