We consider a five-dimensional Einstein-Chern-Simons action which is composed
of a gravitational sector and a sector of matter, where the gravitational
sector is given by a Chern-Simons gravity action instead of the
Einstein-Hilbert action and where the matter sector is given by the so called
perfect fluid. It is shown that (i) the Einstein-Chern-Simons (EChS) field
equations subject to suitable conditions can be written in a similar way to the
Einstein-Maxwell field equations; (ii) these equations have solutions that
describe accelerated expansion for the three possible cosmological models of
the universe, namely, spherical expansion, flat expansion and hyperbolic
expansion when $\alpha $, a parameter of theory, is greater than zero. This
result allow us to conjeture that this solutions are compatible with the era of
Dark Energy and that the energy-momentum tensor for the field $h^{a}$, a
bosonic gauge field from the Chern-Simons gravity action, corresponds to a form
of positive cosmological constant.
  It is also shown that the EChS field equations have solutions compatible with
the era of matter: (i) In the case of an open universe, the solutions
correspond to an accelerated expansion ($\alpha >0$) with a minimum scale
factor at initial time that, when the time goes to infinity, the scale factor
behaves as a hyperbolic sine function. (ii) In the case of a flat universe, the
solutions describing an accelerated expansion whose scale factor behaves as a
exponencial function when time grows. \item In the case of a closed universe it
is found only one solution for a universe in expansion, which behaves as a
hyperbolic cosine function when time grows.