Numerical MHD simulations play increasingly important role for understanding
mechanisms of stellar magnetism. We present simulations of convection and
dynamos in density-stratified rotating spherical fluid shells. We employ a new
3D simulation code for the solution of a physically consistent anelastic model
of the process with a minimum number of parameters. The reported dynamo
simulations extend into a "buoyancy-dominated" regime where the buoyancy
forcing is dominant while the Coriolis force is no longer balanced by pressure
gradients and strong anti-solar differential rotation develops as a result. We
find that the self-generated magnetic fields, despite being relatively weak,
are able to reverse the direction of differential rotation from anti-solar to
solar-like. We also find that convection flows in this regime are significantly
stronger in the polar regions than in the equatorial region, leading to
non-oscillatory dipole-dominated dynamo solutions, and to concentration of
magnetic field in the polar regions. We observe that convection has different
morphology in the inner and at the outer part of the convection zone
simultaneously such that organized geostrophic convection columns are hidden
below a near-surface layer of well-mixed highly-chaotic convection. While we
focus the attention on the buoyancy-dominated regime, we also demonstrate that
conical differential rotation profiles and persistent regular dynamo
oscillations can be obtained in the parameter space of the rotation-dominated
regime even within this minimal model.