We update the SOHO/SWAN H Lyman-alpha brightness analysis to cover the
1996-2008 time interval. A forward model applied to the intensity maps provides
the latitude and time dependence of the interstellar Hydrogen ionisation rate
over more than a full solar cycle. The hydrogen ionisation, being almost
entirely due to charge-exchange with solar wind ions, reflects closely the
solar wind flux. Our results show that the solar wind latitudinal structure
during the present solar minimum is strikingly different from the previous
minimum, with a much wider slow solar wind equatorial belt which persists until
at least the end of 2008. We compute absolute values of the in-ecliptic H
ionisation rates using OMNI solar wind data and use them to calibrate our
ionisation rates at all heliographic latitudes. We then compare the resulting
fluxes with the synoptic LASCO/C2 electron densities at 6 solar radii. The two
time-latitude patterns are strikingly similar over all the cycle. This
comparison shows that densities at 6 solar radii can be used to infer the solar
wind type close to its source, with high (resp. low) densities tracing the slow
(resp. fast) solar wind, simply because the density reflects at which altitude
occurs the acceleration. The comparison between the two minima suggests that
the fast polar wind acceleration occurs at larger distance during the current
minimum compared to the previous one. This difference, potentially linked to
the magnetic field decrease or(and) the coronal temperature decrease should be
reproduced by solar wind expansion models.