Aims: We address the issue of the multiplicity of the three brightest
early-type stars of the young open cluster IC1805, namely HD15570, HD15629 and
HD15558. Methods: For the three stars, we measured the radial velocity by
fitting Gaussian curves to line profiles in the optical domain. In the case of
the massive binary HD15558, we also used a spectral disentangling method to
separate the spectra of the primary and of the secondary in order to derive the
radial velocities of the two components. These measurements were used to
compute orbital solutions for HD15558. Results: For HD15570 and HD15629, the
radial velocities do not present any significant trend attributable to a binary
motion on time scales of a few days, nor from one year to the next. In the case
of HD15558 we obtained an improved SB1 orbital solution with a period of about
442 days, and we report for the first time on the detection of the spectral
signature of its secondary star. We derive spectral types O5.5III(f) and O7V
for the primary and the secondary of HD15558. We tentatively compute a first
SB2 orbital solution although the radial velocities from the secondary star
should be considered with caution. The mass ratio is rather high, i.e. about 3,
and leads to very extreme minimum masses, in particular for the primary object.
Minimum masses of the order of 150 \pm 50 and 50 \pm 15 M_\odot are found
respectively for the primary and the secondary. Conclusions: We propose that
HD15558 could be a triple system. This scenario could help to reconcile the
very large minimum mass derived for the primary object with its spectral type.
In addition, considering new and previously published results, we find that the
binary frequency among O-stars in IC1805 has a lower limit of 20%, and that
previously published values (80%) are probably overestimated.