A simulation of an interactive protocol entails the use of interactive
communication to produce the output of the protocol to within a fixed
statistical distance $\epsilon$. Recent works have proposed that the
information complexity of the protocol plays a central role in characterizing
the minimum number of bits that the parties must exchange for a successful
simulation, namely the distributional communication complexity of simulating
the protocol. Several simulation protocols have been proposed with
communication complexity depending on the information complexity of the
simulated protocol. However, in the absence of any general lower bounds for
distributional communication complexity, the conjectured central role of
information complexity is far from settled. We fill this gap and show that the
distributional communication complexity of $\epsilon$-simulating a protocol is
bounded below by the $\epsilon$-tail $\lambda_\epsilon$ of the information
complexity density, a random variable with information complexity as its
expected value. For protocols with bounded number of rounds, we give a
simulation protocol that yields a matching upper bound. Thus, it is not
information complexity but $\lambda_\epsilon$ that governs the distributional
communication complexity.
  As applications of our bounds, in the amortized regime for product protocols,
we identify the exact second order term, together with the precise dependence
on $\epsilon$. For general protocols such as a mixture of two product protocols
or for the amortized case when the repetitions are not independent, we derive a
general formula for the leading asymptotic term. These results sharpen and
significantly extend known results in the amortized regime. In the single-shot
regime, our result clarifies the dependence of communication complexity on
$\epsilon$.