Landau damping/growing at boundary condition of excitation of a harmonic wave
in collisionless ion-electron-neutrals plasma contradicts to the law of energy
conservation of a wave damping/growing in space. There is also no criterion of
a choice either damping or growing solution in difference from always
non-damping in the direction of propagation Vlasov waves. Variety of other
incongruities as consequence of Landau damping is specified also. Absence of
explicit positivity and finiteness of wave solutions for electron distribution
function near singularity point leads to need of imposing additional cutting
off constraints with resulting positivity and finiteness of the electron
distribution function at the singularity points and finiteness of the complex
dispersion integral. Landau damping as a real physical phenomenon of
collisionless damping does not exist. A relation is established for the real
dispersion equation with real waves (see Appendices 2,4) between the averaged
over period wave damping decrement and the collisional energy-exchange term of
kinetic equation. Collisionless Vlasov-Landau damping is explained finally by
the usual wrong use of nonlinearly complex wave functions leading to complex
dispersion equation. All used solution of the complex dispersion equation for
the simultaneously existing collisionless both exponentially damping and
growing nonlinear complex waves is entirely, quantitatively and in its logical
sense, different from the solution of initially real dispersion equation for
real either damping or growing waves and should be discarded (see Appendices
2,4,5,6). Collisionless damping is caused by unreasonable use of wave functions
with complex frequency or complex wave number leading to complex dispersion
relation with unphysical binomial virtual complex roots. Thus finding roots of
the complex dispersion equation has only abstract mathematical interest.