We investigate the dichotomy in the radio loudness distribution of quasars by
modelling their radio emission and various selection effects using a Monte
Carlo approach. The existence of two physically distinct quasar populations,
the radio-loud and radio-quiet quasars, is controversial and over the last
decade a bimodal distribution of radio loudness of quasars has been both
affirmed and disputed. We model the quasar radio luminosity distribution with
simple unimodal and bimodal distribution functions. The resulting simulated
samples are compared to a fiducial sample of 8,300 quasars drawn from the SDSS
DR7 Quasar Catalog and combined with radio observations from the FIRST survey.
Our results indicate that the SDSS-FIRST sample is best described by a radio
loudness distribution which consists of two components, with 12+/-1 % of
sources in the radio-loud component. On the other hand, the evidence for a
local minimum in the loudness distribution (bimodality) is not strong and we
find that previous claims for its existence were probably affected by the
incompleteness of the FIRST survey close to its faint limit. We also
investigate the redshift and luminosity dependence of the radio loudness
distribution and find tentative evidence that at high redshift radio-loud
quasars were rarer, on average "louder", and exhibited a smaller range in radio
loudness. In agreement with other recent work, we conclude that the SDSS-FIRST
sample strongly suggests that the radio loudness distribution of quasars is not
a universal function, and that more complex models than presented here are
needed to fully explain available observations.