(abridged) We present a model to predict the clustering properties of X-ray
clusters in flux-limited surveys. Our technique correctly accounts for past
light-cone effects on the observed clustering and follows the non-linear
evolution in redshift of the underlying DM correlation function and cluster
bias factor. The conversion of the limiting flux of a survey into the
corresponding minimum mass of the hosting DM haloes is obtained by using
theoretical and empirical relations between mass, temperature and X-ray
luminosity of clusters. Finally, our model is calibrated to reproduce the
observed cluster counts adopting a temperature-luminosity relation moderately
evolving with redshift. We apply our technique to three existing catalogues:
BCS, XBACs and REFLEX samples. Moreover, we consider an example of possible
future space missions with fainter limiting flux. In general, we find that the
amplitude of the spatial correlation function is a decreasing function of the
limiting flux and that the EdS models always give smaller correlation
amplitudes than open or flat models with low matter density parameter. In the
case of XBACs, the comparison with previous estimates of the observational
spatial correlation shows that only the predictions of models with Omega_0m=0.3
are in good agreement with the data, while the EdS models have too low a
correlation strength. Finally, we use our technique to discuss the best
strategy for future surveys. Our results show that the choice of a wide area
catalogue, even with a brighter limiting flux, is preferable to a deeper, but
with smaller area, survey.