The space missions MOST, COROT and Kepler are going to provide us with
high-precision optical photometry of solar-like stars with time series
extending from tens of days to several years. They can be modelled to obtain
information on stellar magnetic activity by fitting the rotational modulation
of the stellar flux produced by the brightness inhomogeneities associated with
photospheric active regions. The variation of the total solar irradiance
provides a good proxy for those photometric time series and can be used to test
the performance of different spot modelling approaches. We test discrete spot
models as well as maximum entropy and Tikhonov regularized spot models by
comparing the reconstructed total sunspot area variation and longitudinal
distributions of sunspot groups with those actually observed in the Sun along
activity cycle 23. Appropriate statistical methods are introduced to measure
model performance versus the timescale of variation. The maximum entropy
regularized spot models show the best agreement with solar observations
reproducing the total sunspot area variation on time scales ranging from a few
months to the activity cycle, although the model amplitudes are affected by
systematic errors during the minimum and the maximum activity phases. The
longitudinal distributions derived from the models compare well with the
observed sunspot group distributions except during the minimum of activity,
when faculae dominate the rotational modulation. The resolution in longitude
attainable through the spot modelling is about 60 degrees.