Studies of the effects of environment on galaxy properties and evolution
require well defined control samples. Such isolated galaxy samples have up to
now been small or poorly defined. The AMIGA project (Analysis of the
interstellar Medium of Isolated GAlaxies) represents an attempt to define a
statistically useful sample of the most isolated galaxies in the local (z <
0.05) Universe. A suitable large sample for the AMIGA project already exists,
the Catalogue of Isolated Galaxies (CIG, Karachentseva 1973; 1050 galaxies),
and we use this sample as a starting point to refine and perform a better
quantification of its isolation properties. Digitised POSS-I E images were
analysed out to a minimum projected radius R > 0.5 Mpc around 950 CIG galaxies
(those within Vr = 1500 km s-1 were excluded). We identified all galaxy
candidates in each field brighter than B = 17.5 with a high degree of
confidence using the LMORPHO software. We generated a catalogue of
approximately 54 000 potential neighbours (redshifts exist for 30% of this
sample). Six hundred sixty-six galaxies pass and two hundred eighty-four fail
the original CIG isolation criterion. The available redshift data confirm that
our catalogue involves a largely background population rather than physically
associated neighbours. We find that the exclusion of neighbours within a factor
of four in size around each CIG galaxy, employed in the original isolation
criterion, corresponds to Delta Vr ~ 18000 km s-1 indicating that it was a
conservative limit. Galaxies in the CIG have been found to show different
degrees of isolation. We conclude that a quantitative measure of this is
mandatory. It will be the subject of future work based on the catalogue of
neighbours obtained here.