In spite of the efforts made in the latest years, still there is no
comprehensive explanation for the chemical anomalies of globular cluster stars.
Among these, the most striking is oxygen depletion, which reaches values down
to [O/Fe]~-0.4 in most clusters, but in M13 it goes down to less than [O/Fe]~ -
1. In this work we suggest that the anomalies are due to the super position of
two different events: 1) PRIMORDIAL SELF-ENRICHMENT: this is asked to explain
the oxygen depletion down to a minimum value [O/Fe]~ -0.4; 2) EXTRA MIXING IN A
FRACTION OF THE STARS ALREADY BORN WITH ANOMALOUS COMPOSITION: these objects,
starting with already low [O/Fe], will reduce the oxygen abundance down to the
most extreme values. Contrary to other models that invoke extra mixing to
explain the chemical anomalies, we suggest that it is active only if there is a
fraction of the stars in which the primordial composition is not only oxygen
depleted, but also extremely helium rich (Y~ 0.4), as found in a few GCs from
their main sequence multiplicity. We propose that the rotational evolution (and
an associated extra mixing) of extremely helium rich stars may be affected by
the fact that they develop a very small or non existent molecular weight
barrier during the evolution. We show that extra mixing in these stars, having
initial chemistry that has already been CNO processed, affects mainly the
oxygen abundance, and to a much smaller extent if affects the sodium abundance.
The model also predicts a large fluorine depletion concomitant with the oxygen
depletion, and a further enhancement of the surface helium abundance, which
reaches values close to Y=0.5 in the computed models. We stress that, in this
tentative explanation, those stars that are primordially O--depleted, but ARE
NOT extremely helium rich do not suffer deep extra mixing.