In this paper, we concentrate on new methodologies for copulas introduced and
developed by Joe, Cooke, Bedford, Kurowica, Daneshkhah and others on the new
class of graphical models called vines as a way of constructing higher
dimensional distributions. We develop the approximation method presented by
Bedford et al (2012) at which they show that any $n$-dimensional copula density
can be approximated arbitrarily well pointwise using a finite parameter set of
2-dimensional copulas in a vine or pair-copula construction. Our constructive
approach involves the use of minimum information copulas that can be specified
to any required degree of precision based on the available data or experts'
judgements. By using this method, we are able to use a fixed finite dimensional
family of copulas to be employed in a vine construction, with the promise of a
uniform level of approximation.
  The basic idea behind this method is to use a two-dimensional ordinary
polynomial series to approximate any log-density of a bivariate copula function
by truncating the series at an appropriate point. We present an alternative
approximation of the multivariate distribution of interest by considering
orthonormal polynomial and Legendre multiwavelets as the basis functions. We
show the derived approximations are more precise and computationally faster
with better properties than the one proposed by Bedford et al. (2012). We then
apply our method to modelling a dataset of Norwegian financial data that was
previously analysed in the series of papers, and finally compare our results by
them.