Biological sensory systems react to changes in their surroundings. They are
characterized by fast response and slow adaptation to varying environmental
cues. Insofar as sensory adaptive systems map environmental changes to changes
of their internal degrees of freedom, they can be regarded as computational
devices manipulating information. Landauer established that information is
ultimately physical, and its manipulation subject to the entropic and energetic
bounds of thermodynamics. Thus the fundamental costs of biological sensory
adaptation can be elucidated by tracking how the information the system has
about its environment is altered. These bounds are particularly relevant for
small organisms, which unlike everyday computers operate at very low energies.
In this paper, we establish a general framework for the thermodynamics of
information processing in sensing. With it, we quantify how during sensory
adaptation information about the past is erased, while information about the
present is gathered. This process produces entropy larger than the amount of
old information erased and has an energetic cost bounded by the amount of new
information written to memory. We apply these principles to the E. coli's
chemotaxis pathway during binary ligand concentration changes. In this regime,
we quantify the amount of information stored by each methyl group and show that
receptors consume energy in the range of the information-theoretic minimum. Our
work provides a basis for further inquiries into more complex phenomena, such
as gradient sensing and frequency response.