Binary and Millisecond pulsars have a great deal to teach us about stellar
evolution and are invaluable tools for tests of relativistic theories of
gravity. Our understanding of these objects has been transformed by large-scale
surveys that have uncovered a great deal of new objects, exquisitely timed by
ever-improving instrumentation. Here we argue that there exists a fundamental
relation between the spin period of a pulsar and its companion mass, and that
this determines many of the observable properties of a binary pulsar. No
recycled pulsars exist in which the minimum companion mass exceeds (P/10 ms)
Solar Masses. Furthermore, the three fastest disk millisecond pulsars are
either single, or possess extremely low-mass companions Mc~0.02 Mo, consistent
with this relation. Finally, the four relativistic binaries for which we have
actual measurements of neutron star masses, suggest that not only are their
spin periods related to the companion neutron star mass, but that the kick
imparted to the system depends upon it too, leading to a correlation between
orbital eccentricity and spin period. The isolation of the relativistic binary
pulsars in the magnetic field-period diagram is used to argue that this must be
because the kicks imparted to proto-relativistic systems are usually small,
leading to very few if any isolated runaway mildly-recycled pulsars. This calls
into question the magnitude of supernova kicks in close binaries, which have
been usually assumed to be similar to those imparted to the bulk of the pulsar
population. Finally, we review some of the highlights of the Parkes precision
timing efforts, which suggest 10 nanosecond timing is obtainable on PSR
J1909-3744 that will aid us in searching for cosmological sources of
gravitational waves.