Casella and Hwang, 1983, JASA, introduced a broad class of recentered
confidence spheres for the mean theta of a multivariate normal distribution
with covariance matrix sigma^2 I, for sigma^2 known. Both the center and radius
functions of these confidence spheres are flexible functions of the data. For
the particular case of confidence spheres centered on the positive-part
James-Stein estimator and with radius determined by empirical Bayes
considerations, they show numerically that these confidence spheres have the
desired minimum coverage probability 1-alpha and dominate the usual confidence
sphere in terms of scaled volume. We shift the focus from the scaled volume to
the scaled expected volume of the recentered confidence sphere. Since both the
coverage probability and the scaled expected volume are functions of the
Euclidean norm of theta, it is feasible to optimize the performance of the
recentered confidence sphere by numerically computing both the center and
radius functions so as to optimize some clearly specified criterion. We suppose
that we have uncertain prior information that theta = 0. This motivates us to
determine the center and radius functions of the confidence sphere by numerical
minimization of the scaled expected volume of the confidence sphere at theta =
0, subject to the constraints that (a) the coverage probability never falls
below 1-alpha and (b) the radius never exceeds the radius of the standard
1-alpha confidence sphere. Our results show that, by focusing on this clearly
specified criterion, significant gains in performance (in terms of this
criterion) can be achieved. We also present analogous results for the much more
difficult case that sigma^2 is unknown.