Using a combined analytical/molecular dynamics (MD) approach, we study the
current fluctuation spectra and longitudinal and transverse collective mode
dispersions of the classical two-dimensional (point) dipole system (2DDS)
characterized by the $\phi _{D}(r)=\mu^2/r^3$ repulsive interaction potential;
$\mu$ is the electric dipole strength. The interest in such two-dimensional
dipole systems (2DDS) is twofold. First, the quasi-long range $1/r^{3}$
interaction makes the system a unique classical many body system, with a
remarkable collective mode behavior. Second, the system may be a good model for
a closely spaced semiconductor electron-hole bilayer, a system that is in the
forefront of current experimental interest. The longitudinal collective
excitations, which are of primary interest for the liquid phase, are acoustic
at long wavelengths. At higher wave numbers and for sufficiently high coupling
strength, we observe the formation of a deep minimum in the dispersion curve
preceded by a sharp maximum; this is identical to what has been observed in the
dispersion of the zero temperature bosonic dipole system, which in turn
emulates so called roton-maxon excitation spectrum of the superfluid $^4$He.
The analysis we present gives an insight into the emergence of this apparently
universal structure, governed by strong correlations. We study both the liquid
and the crystalline solid state. We also observe the excitation of combination
frequencies, resembling the roton-roton, roton-maxon, etc. structures in
$^4$He.