We present a Nobeyama 45 m Radio Telescope map and Australia Telescope
Compact Array pointed observations of N2H+ 1-0 emission towards the clustered,
low mass star forming Oph B Core within the Ophiuchus molecular cloud. We
compare these data with previously published results of high resolution NH3
(1,1) and (2,2) observations in Oph B. We use 3D Clumpfind to identify emission
features in the single-dish N2H+ map, and find that the N2H+ `clumps' match
well similar features previously identified in NH3 (1,1) emission, but are
frequently offset to clumps identified at similar resolution in 850 micron
continuum emission. Wide line widths in the Oph B2 sub-Core indicate
non-thermal motions dominate the Core kinematics, and remain transonic at
densities n ~ 3 x 10^5 cm^-3 with large scatter and no trend with N(H2).
Non-thermal motions in Oph B1 and B3 are subsonic with little variation, but
also show no trend with H2 column density. Over all Oph B, non-thermal N2H+
line widths are substantially narrower than those traced by NH3, making it
unlikely NH3 and N2H+ trace the same material, but the v_LSR of both species
agree well. We find evidence for accretion in Oph B1 from the surrounding
ambient gas. The NH3/N2H+ abundance ratio is larger towards starless Oph B1
than towards protostellar Oph B2, similar to recent observational results in
other star-forming regions. Small-scale structure is found in the ATCA N2H+ 1-0
emission, where emission peaks are again offset from continuum emission. In
particular, the ~1 M_Sun B2-MM8 clump is associated with a N2H+ emission
minimum and surrounded by a broken ring-like N2H+ emission structure,
suggestive of N2H+ depletion. We find a strong general trend of decreasing N2H+
abundance with increasing N(H2) in Oph B which matches that found for NH3.