We report the detections of substellar companions orbiting around seven
evolved intermediate-mass stars from precise Doppler measurements at Okayama
Astrophysical Observatory. o UMa (G4 II-III) is a giant with a mass of 3.1
M_sun and hosts a planet with minimum mass of m_2sini=4.1 M_J in an orbit with
a period P=1630 d and an eccentricity e=0.13. This is the first planet
candidate (< 13 M_J) ever discovered around stars more massive than 3 M_sun. o
CrB (K0 III) is a 2.1 M_sun giant and has a planet of m_2sini=1.5 M_J in a
187.8 d orbit with e=0.19. This is one of the least massive planets ever
discovered around ~2 M_sun stars. HD 5608 (K0 IV) is an 1.6 M_sun subgiant
hosting a planet of m_2sini=1.4 M_J in a 793 d orbit with e=0.19. The star also
exhibits a linear velocity trend suggesting the existence of an outer, more
massive companion. 75 Cet (G3 III:) is a 2.5 M_sun giant hosting a planet of
m_2sini=3.0 M_J in a 692 d orbit with e=0.12. The star also shows possible
additional periodicity of about 200 d and 1880 d with velocity amplitude of
~7--10 m/s, although these are not significant at this stage. nu Oph (K0 III)
is a 3.0 M_sun giant and has two brown-dwarf companions of m_2sini= 24 M_J and
27 M_J, in orbits with P=530.3 d and 3190 d, and e=0.126 and 0.17,
respectively, which were independently announced by Quirrenbach et al. (2011).
The ratio of the periods is close to 1:6, suggesting that the companions are in
mean motion resonance. We also independently confirmed planets around k CrB (K0
III-IV) and HD 210702 (K1 IV), which had been announced by Johnson et al.
(2008) and Johnson et al. (2007a), respectively. All of the orbital parameters
we obtained are consistent with the previous results.