Measurements of the magnetic field in the interplanetary medium, of the
sunspots area, and of the heliospheric current sheet position, reveal a
possible North-South asymmetry in the magnetic field of the Sun. We study the
North-South asymmetry as inferred from measurements of the deflection of polar
coronal hole jets when they propagate throughout the corona. Since the corona
is an environment where the magnetic pressure is greater than the kinetic
pressure, we can assume that magnetic field controls the dynamics of plasma. On
average, jets during their propagation follow the magnetic field lines,
highlighting its local direction. The average jet deflection is studied both in
the plane perpendicular to the line of sight, and, for a reduced number of
jets, in three dimensional space. The observed jet deflection is studied in
terms of an axisymmetric magnetic field model comprising dipole We measured the
position angles at 1 rs and at 2 rs of the 79 jets from the catalogue of
Nistico et al 2009., based on the STEREO ultraviolet and white-light
coronagraph observations during the solar minimum period March 2007-April 2008.
We found that the propagation is not radial, in agreement with the deflection
due to magnetic field lines. Moreover, the amount of the deflection is
different between jets over the north and those from the south pole. Comparison
of jet deflections and field line tracing shows that a ratio g2/g1 ~ -0.5 for
the quadrupole and a ratio g3/g1 ~ 1.6-2.0 for the esapole can describe the
field. The presence of a non-negligible quadrupole moment. We find that the
magnetic deflection of jets is larger in the North than in the South of the
order of 25-40%, with an asymmetry which is consistent with a southward
deflection of the heliospheric current sheet of the order of 10 deg, consistent
with that inferred from other, independent, datasets and instruments.