A statistical analysis of a large data set of H-alpha flares comprising
almost 100000 single events that occurred during the period January 1975 to
December 1999 is presented. We analyzed the flares evolution steps, i.e.
duration, rise times, decay times and event asymmetries. Moreover, these
parameters characterizing the temporal behavior of flares, as well as the
spatial distribution on the solar disk, i.e. N-S and E-W asymmetries, are
analyzed in terms of their dependency on the solar cycle. The main results are:
1) The duration, rise and decay times increase with increasing importance
class. The increase is more pronounced for the decay times than for the rise
times. The same relation is valid with regard to the brightness classes but in
a weaker manner. 2) The event asymmetry indices, which characterize the
proportion of the decay to the rise time of an event, are predominantly
positive (90%). For about 50% of the events the decay time is even more than 4
times as long as the rise time. 3) The event asymmetries increase with the
importance class. 4) The flare duration and decay times vary in phase with the
solar cycle; the rise times do not. 5) The event asymmetries do not reveal a
distinct correlation with the solar cycle. However, they drop during times of
solar minima, which can be explained by the shorter decay times found during
minimum activity. 6) There exists a significant N-S asymmetry over longer
periods, and the dominance of one hemisphere over the other can persist for
more than one cycle. 7) For certain cycles there may be evidence that the N-S
asymmetry evolves with the solar cycle, but in general this is not the case. 8)
There exists a slight but significant E-W asymmetry with a prolonged eastern
excess.