We consider nonlinear dynamics of a single vortex in a superconductor in a
strong rf magnetic field $B_0\sin\omega t$. Using the London theory, we
calculate the dissipated power $Q(B_0,\omega)$, and the transient time scales
of vortex motion for the linear Bardeen-Stephen viscous drag force, which
results in unphysically high vortex velocities during vortex penetration
through the oscillating surface barrier. It is shown that penetration of a
single vortex through the ac surface barrier always involves penetration of an
antivortex and the subsequent annihilation of the vortex antivortex pairs.
Using the nonlinear Larkin-Ovchinnikov (LO) viscous drag force at higher vortex
velocities $v(t)$ results in a jump-wise vortex penetration through the surface
barrier and a significant increase of the dissipated power. We calculate the
effect of dissipation on nonlinear vortex viscosity $\eta(v)$ and the rf vortex
dynamics and show that it can also result in the LO-type behavior,
instabilities, and thermal localization of penetrating vortex channels. We
propose a thermal feedback model of $\eta(v)$, which not only results in the LO
dependence of $\eta(v)$ for a steady-state motion, but also takes into account
retardation of temperature field around rapidly accelerating vortex, and a
long-range interaction with the surface. We also address the effect of pinning
on the nonlinear rf vortex dynamics and the effect of trapped magnetic flux on
the surface resistance $R_s$ calculated as a function or rf frequency and
field. It is shown that trapped flux can result in a temperature-independent
residual resistance $R_i$ at low $T$, and a hysteretic low-field dependence of
$R_i(B_0)$, which can {\it decrease} as $B_0$ is increased, reaching a minimum
at $B_0$ much smaller than the thermodynamic critical field $B_c$.