The new, complex-dynamical mechanism of the universal gravitation naturally
incorporating dynamical quantization, wave-particle duality, and relativity of
physically emerging space and time (quant-ph/9902015,16) provides the realistic
meaning and fundamentally substantiated modification of the Planckian units of
mass, length, and time approaching them closely to the extreme values observed
for already discovered elementary particles. This result suggests the important
change of research strategy in high-energy/particle physics, displacing it
towards the already attained energy scales and permitting one to exclude the
existence of elementary objects in the inexplicably large interval of
parameters separating the known, practically more than sufficient set of
elementary species and the conventional, mechanistically exaggerated values of
the Planckian units. This conclusion is supported by the causally complete
(physically and mathematically consistent) picture of the fundamental levels of
reality derived, without artificial introduction of any structure or
'principle', from the unreduced analysis of the (generic) interaction process
between two primal, physically real, but a priori structureless entities, the
electromagnetic and gravitational protofields. The naturally emerging
phenomenon of universal dynamic redundance (multivaluedness) of interaction
process gives rise to the intrinsically unified hierarchy of unreduced dynamic
complexity of the world, starting from the lowest levels of elementary objects,
and explains the irreducible limitations of the basically single-valued
approach of the canonical science leading to the well-known 'mysteries',
separations, and loss of certainty.