We present a self-consistent model of the spectral energy distributions
(SEDs) of spiral galaxies from the ultraviolet (UV) to the mid-infrared
(MIR)/far-infrared (FIR)/submillimeter (submm) based on a full radiative
transfer calculation of the propagation of starlight in galaxy disks. This
model predicts not only the total integrated energy absorbed in the UV/optical
and re-emitted in the infrared/submm, but also the colours of the dust emission
based on an explicit calculation of the strength and colour of the UV/optical
radiation fields heating the dust, and incorporating a full calculation of the
stochastic heating of small dust grains and PAH molecules.
  The geometry of the translucent components of the model is empirically
constrained using the results from the radiation transfer analysis of Xilouris
et al. on spirals in the middle range of the Hubble sequence, while the
geometry of the optically thick components is constrained from physical
considerations with a posteriori checks of the model predictions with
observational data.
  These geometrical constraints enable the dust emission to be predicted in
terms of a minimum set of free parameters: the central face-on dust opacity in
the B-band tau^f_B, a clumpiness factor F for the star-forming regions, the
star-formation rate SFR, the normalised luminosity of the old stellar
population old and the bulge-to-disk ratio B/D. We show that these parameters
are almost orthogonal in their predicted effect on the colours of the dust/PAH
emission.
  The results of the calculations are made available in the form of a large
library of simulated dust emission SEDs spanning the whole parameter space of
our model, together with the corresponding library of dust attenuation
calculated using the same model. (see full abstract in the paper)