The Great Observatories All-sky LIRG Survey (GOALS) consists of a complete
sample of 202 Luminous Infrared Galaxies (LIRGs) selected from the IRAS Revised
Bright Galaxy Sample (RBGS). The galaxies span the full range of interaction
stages, from isolated galaxies to interacting pairs to late stage mergers. We
present a comparison of the UV and infrared properties of 135 galaxies in GOALS
observed by GALEX and Spitzer. For interacting galaxies with separations
greater than the resolution of GALEX and Spitzer (2-6"), we assess the UV and
IR properties of each galaxy individually. The contribution of the FUV to the
measured SFR ranges from 0.2% to 17.9%, with a median of 2.8% and a mean of 4.0
+/- 0.4%. The specific star formation rate of the GOALS sample is extremely
high, with a median value (3.9*10^{-10} yr^{-1}) that is comparable to the
highest specific star formation rates seen in the Spitzer Infrared Nearby
Galaxies Survey sample. We examine the position of each galaxy on the IR
excess-UV slope (IRX-beta) diagram as a function of galaxy properties,
including IR luminosity and interaction stage. The LIRGs on average have
greater IR excesses than would be expected based on their UV colors if they
obeyed the same relations as starbursts with L_IR < 10^{11}L_0 or normal
late-type galaxies. The ratio of L_IR to the value one would estimate from the
IRXg-beta relation published for lower luminosity starburst galaxies ranges
from 0.2 to 68, with a median value of 2.7. A minimum of 19% of the total IR
luminosity in the RBGS is produced in LIRGs and ULIRGs with red UV colors (beta
> 0). Among resolved interacting systems, 32% contain one galaxy which
dominates the IR emission while the companion dominates the UV emission. Only
21% of the resolved systems contain a single galaxy which dominates both
wavelengths.