We address receiver (RX) signal processing in MIMO systems under
in-phase/quadrature (I/Q) imbalance, which causes cross-talk of
mirror-subcarriers in OFDM systems. We extend the typically reported
single-user studies to uplink OFDMA-based multiuser MIMO, with simultaneous
user multiplexing in frequency and spatial domains. We also incorporate
multiple external interferers, for modeling challenging conditions in
heterogeneous networks. In the signal processing developments, we exploit the
augmented subcarrier processing, which processes each subcarrier jointly with
its counterpart at the image subcarrier, and jointly across RX antennas.
Furthermore, we derive an augmented linear minimum mean-square error RX. The
novel approach integrates the I/Q imbalance mitigation, interference
suppression and data stream separation into a single processing stage, thus
avoiding a separate transceiver calibration. Our numerical results show the
signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio of an arbitrary data stream after RX
processing as a function of different system parameters. The per-subcarrier
processing is shown to suffer heavily under I/Q imbalances, and being
particularly sensitive to external interferers, whereas the augmented method
provides efficient data stream separation and interference suppression.
Finally, we extend the studies to the massive MIMO framework and show that the
per-subcarrier processing still suffers from performance degradation, whereas
the augmented approach can fully exploit the array gain.