Even when a loading pattern contains a single salient loading for each
variable, several non-salient or secondary loadings are often not close to zero
after oblique rotation. The aim of the present study was therefore to propose a
criterion for parsimony of non-salient loadings, even when they cannot be
reduced to zero. A promising criterion for this purpose is based on "buffered
scales", which have been proposed by Cattell and Tsujioka (1964) as optimal
indicators of corresponding factors. Variables with positive and negative
loadings on an unwanted factor are balanced out in a buffered scale, so that
the variance of the unwanted factor is at minimum. It is proposed here to use
the balance of positive and negative loadings on unwanted factors as a
criterion for finding parsimony in data with non-zero secondary loadings. A
rotation method towards this criterion ("Buffsim-rotation") is proposed. It is
also shown how to specify loadings in confirmatory factor analysis by means of
model constraints in order to get buffered simple structure. In a simulation
study, Buffsim-rotation performed as well as Geomin-, Oblimin-, and
Infomax-rotation with respect to the identification of population simple
structure models in the samples. However, a buffered simple structure with a
balanced set of positive and negative non-salient loadings could most precisely
be identified with Buffsim-rotation. An empirical example shows that specifying
a buffered simple structure in confirmatory factor analysis results in a more
convincing replication of an intended factor structure than methods based on
conventional simple structure.