We study the variation in the magnetic field strength and the umbral
intensity of sunspots during the declining phase of the solar cycle no.23 and
in the beginning of cycle no.24. We analyze a sample of 183 sunspots observed
from 1999 until 2011 with the Tenerife Infrared Polarimeter at the German
Vacuum Tower Telescope. The magnetic field strength is derived from the Zeeman
splitting of the Stokes-V signal in one near-infrared spectral line, either Fe
I 1564.8 nm, Fe I 1089.6 nm, or Si I 1082.7 nm. This avoids the effects of the
unpolarized stray light from the field-free quiet Sun surroundings. The minimum
umbral continuum intensity and umbral area are also measured. We find that
there is a systematic trend for sunspots in the late stage of the solar cycle
no.23 to be weaker, i.e., to have a smaller maximum magnetic field strength
than those at the start of the cycle. The decrease in the field strength with
time of about 94 G/yr is well beyond the statistical fluctuations that would be
expected because of the larger number of sunspots close to cycle maximum (14
G/yr). In the same time interval, the continuum intensity of the umbra
increases with a rate of 1.3 (+- 0.4)% of Ic/yr, while the umbral area does not
show any trend above the statistical variance. Sunspots in the new cycle no.24
show higher field strengths and lower continuum intensities than those at the
end of cycle no.23, interrupting the trend. Sunspots have an intrinsically
weaker field strength and brighter umbrae at the late stages of solar cycles
compared to their initial stages, without any significant change in their area.
The abrupt increase in field strength in sunspots of the new cycle suggests
that the cyclic variations are dominating over any long-term trend that
continues across cycles. We find a slight decrease in field strength and an
increase in intensity as a long-term trend across the cycles.