We present the results of the analysis of LR optical-NIR spectra (0.6-2.4 um)
of a sample 47 YSOs in the ChaI and II star-forming clouds. These data are part
of the POISSON project (Protostellar Optical-Infrared Spectral Survey on NTT).
The aim is to determine the accretion luminosity (Lacc) and mass accretion rate
(Macc) of the sources through the analysis of the detected emission features.
We also aim at verifying the reliability and consistency of the existing
empirical relationships connecting emission line luminosity and Lacc. We employ
five tracers (OI-6300A, Ha, CaII-8542A, Pab, and Brg) to derive the accretion
luminosity. The tracers provide Lacc values showing different scatters when
plotted as a function of L*. The Brg seems to be the most reliable, because it
gives the minimum Lacc dispersion over the entire range of L*, whereas the
other tracers provide much more scattered Lacc values, which are not expected
for our homogeneous sample. The comparison between Lacc(Brg) and Lacc obtained
from the other tracers also shows systematic differences among the empirical
relationships. These may probably be ascribed to different excitation
mechanisms contributing to the line emission, which may vary between our sample
and those where the relationships were calibrated. Adopting the Lacc derived
from Brg, we find Lacc=0.1L*-1L* for all sources, and Macc of the order of
10^-7-10^-9 Msun/yr. The Macc derived in ChaI are proportional to M*^2, as
found in other low-mass star-forming regions. The discrepancies observed in the
case of Lacc(Brg) and Lacc(Pab) can be related to different intrinsic Pab/Brg,
ratios. The derived ratios show the existence of two different emission
modalities, one that agrees with predictions of both wind and accretion models,
the other suggesting optically thick emission from relatively small regions
(10^21-10^22 cm^-3) with gas at low temperatures (<4000K).