Recent work by Pringle and by Maloney, Begelman & Pringle has shown that
geometrically thin, optically thick, accretion disks are unstable to warping
driven by radiation torque from the central source. In this paper we generalize
the study of radiation-driven warping to include general power-law surface
density distributions, $\Sigma\propto R^{-\delta}$. We consider the range
$\delta=3/2$ (isothermal disks) to $\delta=-3/2$, which corresponds to a
radiation-pressure-supported disk; this spans the range of surface density
distributions likely to be found in real astrophysical disks. There is a
critical minimum size for unstable disks. The critical radius and the
steady-state precession rate depend only weakly on $\delta$. The case
$\delta=1$ divides the solutions into two qualitatively different regimes.
Nonlinear effects must be important if the warp extends to the disk inner edge
for $\delta \ge 1$, but for $\delta < 1$ nonlinearity will be important only if
the warp amplitude is large at the origin. The effects of shadowing of the
central source by the warp will thus be very different in the two regimes of
$\delta.$ In real accretion disks the outer boundary condition is likely to be
different from the zero-crossing condition that we have assumed. In accretion
disks around massive black holes in active galactic nuclei, the disk will
probably become optically thin before the outer disk boundary is reached, while
in X-ray binaries, there will be an outer disk region (outside the
circularization radius) in which the inflow velocity is zero but angular
momentum is still transported. We show that in both these cases the solutions
are similar to the zero-crossing eigenfunctions.