The very young brown dwarf candidate ChaHa8 was recently discovered to have a
close (~1AU) companion by means of radial velocity monitoring. We present
additional radial velocity data obtained with UVES/VLT between 2007 and 2010,
which significantly improve the orbit of the system. The combined data set
spans ten years of radial velocity monitoring for ChaHa8. A Kepler fit to the
data yields an orbital period of 5.2 yrs, an eccentricity of 0.59, and a radial
velocity semi-amplitude of 2.4 km/s. A companion mass M2sini (which is a lower
limit due to the unknown orbital inclination) of 25 Mjup and of 31 Mjup is
derived when using model-dependent mass estimates for the primary of 0.07 and
0.10 Msun, resp. Assuming random orientation of orbits in space, we find a very
high probability that the companion of Chaha8 is of substellar nature: With a
greater than 87% probability, the companion mass is between 30 and 69 Mjup and
the mass ratio < 0.7. The absence of any evidence of the companion in the
cross-correlation function together with the size of the radial velocity
amplitude also indicate a mass ratio of at most 0.7, and likely smaller.
Furthermore, the new data exclude the possibility that the companion has a mass
in the planetary regime (<13 Mjup). We show that the companion contributes
significantly to the total luminosity of the system: model-dependent estimates
provide a minimum luminosity ratio L2/L1 of 0.2. ChaHa8 is the 4th known
spectroscopic brown dwarf or very low-mass stellar binary with determined
orbital parameters, and the 2nd known very young one. With an age of only ~3
Myr it is of particular interest to very low-mass formation and evolution
theories. In contrast to most other spectroscopic binaries, it has a relatively
long period and it might be possible to determine the astrometric orbit of the
primary and, thus, the orbital inclination.