The linear exp6 isotherm is presented as an approach to the thermodynamic
properies of liquid alkali metals over the whole liquid range including
metal-nonmetal transition. The exp6 pair interaction potential is applied to
approach the underlying interplay between the characteristic soft repulsive
intercation in dense, large attractive interaction in the expanded liquid
alkali metal and the observed thermodynamic properties. PVT of dense liquid
alkali metals obey the linear exp6 isotherm (Z-1)V2=A+Br-7/3
exp{a(1-Cr-1/3/rm)} over the whole range of liquid densities, where Z is the
compression factor, r=1/V is the density, rm is the position of potential
minimum, a is a parameter, and C is constant. The intercept A and the slope B
significantly are related to attraction and repulsion, repectively, and both
depend on temperature. At the level of theory presented in this work, the
thermodynamic effects caused by the polarization of atoms in expanded liquid
alkali metals can be accounted for by exp6 potential function to demonestrat
their thermodynamic properties as normal liquids. This incluids the
metal-nonmetal tarnsition in which case the nature of forces are changed in
such a way that the thermodynamic properties would be different from those of
the high-density region. In particular the equation state for molten cesium is
analytical over the whole range of liquid densities. The linear exp6 isotherm
is used to estimate the binding energy (0.0733 eV) and the position of
potential minimum (0.5336 A) of liquid cesium st freezing temparature.