We present a near-infrared spectroscopic study of HD 114762B, the latest-type
metal-poor companion discovered to date and the only ultracool subdwarf with a
known metallicity, inferred from the primary star to be [Fe/H] = -0.7. We
obtained a medium-resolution Keck/OSIRIS J-band spectrum and a low-resolution
IRTF/SpeX 0.8-2.4 um spectrum of HD 114762B. HD 114762B exhibits spectral
features common to both late-type dwarfs and subdwarfs, and we assign it a
spectral type of d/sdM9 +/- 1. We use a Monte Carlo technique to fit
PHOENIX/GAIA synthetic spectra to the observations, accounting for the
coarsely-gridded nature of the models. Fits to the entire OSIRIS J-band and to
the metal-sensitive J-band atomic absorption features (Fe I, K I, and Al I
lines) yield model parameters that are most consistent with the metallicity of
the primary star and the high surface gravity expected of old late-type
objects. The effective temperatures and radii inferred from the model
atmosphere fitting broadly agree with those predicted by the evolutionary
models of Chabrier & Baraffe, and the model color-absolute magnitude relations
accurately predict the metallicity of HD 114762B. We conclude that current
low-mass, mildly metal-poor atmospheric and evolutionary models are mutually
consistent for spectral fits to medium-resolution J-band spectra of HD 114762B,
but are inconsistent for fits to low-resolution near-infrared spectra of mild
subdwarfs. Finally, we develop a technique for estimating distances to
ultracool subdwarfs based on a single near-infrared spectrum. We show that this
"spectroscopic parallax" method enables distance estimates accurate to < 10% of
parallactic distances for ultracool subdwarfs near the hydrogen burning minimum
mass. (abridged)