Access control is fundamental to computer security, and has thus been the
subject of extensive formal study. In particular, *relative expressiveness
analysis* techniques have used formal mappings called *simulations* to explore
whether one access control system is capable of emulating another, thereby
comparing the expressive power of these systems. Unfortunately, the notions of
expressiveness simulation that have been explored vary widely, which makes it
difficult to compare results in the literature, and even leads to apparent
contradictions between results. Furthermore, some notions of expressiveness
simulation make use of non-determinism, and thus cannot be used to define
mappings between access control systems that are useful in practical scenarios.
In this work, we define the minimum set of properties for an *implementable*
access control simulation; i.e., a deterministic "recipe" for using one system
in place of another. We then define a wide range of properties spread across
several dimensions that can be enforced on top of this minimum definition.
These properties define a taxonomy that can be used to separate and compare
existing notions of access control simulation, many of which were previously
incomparable. We position existing notions of simulation within our properties
lattice by formally proving each simulation's equivalence to a corresponding
set of properties. Lastly, we take steps towards bridging the gap between
theory and practice by exploring the systems implications of points within our
properties lattice. This shows that relative expressive analysis is more than
just a theoretical tool, and can also guide the choice of the most suitable
access control system for a specific application or scenario.