We have carried out a sensitive search for gas emission lines at infrared and
millimeter wavelengths for a sample of 15 young sun-like stars selected from
our dust disk survey with the Spitzer Space Telescope. We have used
mid-infrared lines to trace the warm (300-100 K) gas in the inner disk and
millimeter transitions of 12CO to probe the cold (~20 K) outer disk. We report
no gas line detections from our sample. Line flux upper limits are first
converted to warm and cold gas mass limits using simple approximations allowing
a direct comparison with values from the literature. We also present results
from more sophisticated models following Gorti and Hollenbach (2004) which
confirm and extend our simple analysis. These models show that the SI line at
25.23 micron can set constraining limits on the gas surface density at the disk
inner radius and traces disk regions up to a few AU. We find that none of the
15 systems have more than 0.04 MJ of gas within a few AU from the disk inner
radius for disk radii from 1 AU up to ~40 AU. These gas mass upper limits even
in the 8 systems younger than ~30 Myr suggest that most of the gas is dispersed
early. The gas mass upper limits in the 10-40 AU region, that is mainly traced
by our CO data, are <2 Mearth. If these systems are analogs of the Solar
System, either they have already formed Uranus- and Neptune-like planets or
they will not form them beyond 100 Myr. Finally, the gas surface density upper
limits at 1 AU are smaller than 0.01% of the minimum mass solar nebula for most
of the sources. If terrestrial planets form frequently and their orbits are
circularized by gas, then circularization occurs early.