Both remote-sensing measurements using the interplanetary scintillation (IPS)
technique and in situ measurements by the Ulysses spacecraft show a bimodal
structure for the solar wind at solar minimum conditions. At present what makes
the fast wind fast and the slow wind slow still remains to be answered. While a
robust empirical correlation exists between the coronal expansion rate $f_c$ of
the flow tubes and the speeds $v$ measured in situ, further data analysis
suggests that $v$ depends on more than just $f_c$. We examine whether the
non-radial shape of field lines, which naturally accompanies any non-radial
expansion, could be an additional geometrical factor. We solved the transport
equations incorporating the heating due to turbulent Alfv\'en waves for an
electron-proton solar wind along curved field lines given by an analytical
magnetic field model, representative of a solar minimum corona. The field line
shape is found to influence substantially the solar wind parameters, reducing
the asymptotic speed by up to $\sim 130$ km s$^{-1}$, or by $\sim 28%$ in
relative terms, compared with the case neglecting the field line curvature.
This effect was interpreted in the general framework of energy addition in the
solar wind: Relative to the straight case, the field line curvature enhances
the effective energy deposition to the subsonic flow, resulting in a higher
proton flux and a lower terminal proton speed. Our computations suggest that
the field line curvature could be a geometrical factor which, in addition to
the tube expansion, substantially influences the solar wind speed. Furthermore,
at solar minima although the field line curvature unlikely affects the polar
fast solar wind, it does help make the wind at low latitudes slow, thereby
helping better reproduce the Ulysses measurements.