Biogels made of crosslinked polymers such as proteins or polysaccharides
behave as porous soft solids and store large amount of solvent. These gels
undergo spontaneous aging, called syneresis that consists in the shrinkage of
the gel matrix and the progressive expulsion of the solvent. As a result, a
biogel originally casted in a container often lose contact with the container
sidewalls, and the detachment time is a priori difficult to anticipate since it
may occur over variable time spans (from hours to days). Here we report on the
syneresis phenomena in agar plates that consist in Petri dishes filled with a
gel mainly composed of agar. Direct observations and speckle pattern
correlation analysis allow us to rationalize the delayed detachment of the gel
from the sidewall of the Petri dish. The detachment time $t^*$ is surprisingly
not controlled by the mass loss as one would intuitively expect. Instead, $t^*$
is strongly correlated to the gel minimum thickness $e_{min}$ measured along
the sidewall of the plate, and increases as a robust function of $e_{min}$
independently of the prior mass-loss history. Time-resolved correlation
spectroscopy atypically applied to such weakly diffusive media gives access to
the local thinning rate of the gel. This technique also allows us to detect the
gel micro-displacements that are triggered by the water evaporation prior to
the detachment, and even to anticipate the latter from a few hours. Our work
provides observables to predict the detachment time of agar gels in dishes, and
highlights the relevance of speckle pattern correlation analysis for the
quantitative investigation of the syneresis dynamics in biopolymer gels.