The minimum-energy configuration for the magnetic field above the solar
photosphere is curl-free (hence, by Ampere's law, also current-free), so can be
represented as the gradient of a scalar potential. Since magnetic fields are
divergence free, this scalar potential obeys Laplace's equation, given an
appropriate boundary condition (BC). With measurements of the full magnetic
vector at the photosphere, it is possible to employ either Neumann or Dirichlet
BCs there. Historically, the Neumann BC was used, since available line-of-sight
magnetic field measurements approximated the radial field needed for the
Neumann BC. Since each BC fully determines the 3D vector magnetic field, either
choice will, in general, be inconsistent with some aspect of the observed field
on the boundary, due to the presence of both currents and noise in the observed
field. We present a method to combine solutions from both Dirichlet and Neumann
BCs to determine a hybrid potential field that minimizes the integrated square
of the residual between the potential and actual fields, with the possibility
of weighting by spatially uniform measurement uncertainties. This has
advantages in both not overfitting the radial field used for the Neumann BC,
and maximizing consistency with the observations. We show this with HMI vector
magnetic field observations of AR 11158, and find that residual discrepancies
between the observed and potential fields are significant, and imply nonzero
horizontal photospheric currents. We also analyze potential fields for two
other active regions observed with two different vector magnetographs, and find
that hybrid potential fields have substantially less energy than the Neumann
fields in every case --- by nearly 10^33 ergs in some cases. This has major
implications for estimates of free magnetic energy in coronal field models,
e.g., non-linear force-free field extrapolations.