A statistical analysis of the breaking behavior of Ni nanowires is presented.
Using molecular dynamic simulations, we have determined the time evolution of
both the nanowire atomic structure and its minimum cross section (Sm(t)).
Accumulating thousands of independent breaking events, Sm histograms are built
and used to study the influence of the temperature, the crystalline stretching
direction and the initial nanowire size. The proportion of monomers, dimers and
more complex structures at the latest stages of the breaking process are
calculated, finding important differences among results obtained for different
nanowire orientations and sizes. Three main cases have been observed. (A) [111]
stretching direction and large nanowire sizes: the wire evolves from more
complex structures to monomers and dimers prior its rupture; well ordered
structures is presented during the breaking process. (B) Large nanowires
stretched along the [100] and [110] directions: the system mainly breaks from
complex structures (low probability of finding monomers and dimers), having
disordered regions during their breakage; at room temperature, a huge histogram
peak around Sm=5 appears, showing the presence of long staggered pentagonal Ni
wires with ...-5-1-5-... structure. (C) Initial wire size is small: strong size
effects independently on the temperature and stretching direction. Finally, the
local structure around monomers and dimmers do not depend on the stretching
direction. These configurations differ from those usually chosen in static
studies of conductance.