We present the catalogue of blended galaxy spectra from the Galaxy And Mass
Assembly (GAMA) survey. These are cases where light from two galaxies are
significantly detected in a single GAMA fibre. Galaxy pairs identified from
their blended spectrum fall into two principal classes: they are either strong
lenses, a passive galaxy lensing an emission-line galaxy; or occulting
galaxies, serendipitous overlaps of two galaxies, of any type. Blended spectra
can thus be used to reliably identify strong lenses for follow-up observations
(high resolution imaging) and occulting pairs, especially those that are a
late-type partly obscuring an early-type galaxy which are of interest for the
study of dust content of spiral and irregular galaxies. The GAMA survey setup
and its autoz automated redshift determination were used to identify candidate
blended galaxy spectra from the cross-correlation peaks. We identify 280
blended spectra with a minimum velocity separation of 600 km/s, of which 104
are lens pair candidates, 71 emission-line-passive pairs, 78 are pairs of
emission-line galaxies and and 27 are pairs of galaxies with passive spectra.
We have visually inspected the candidates in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey
(SDSS) and Kilo Degree Survey (KiDS) images. Many blended objects are
ellipticals with blue fuzz (Ef in our classification). These latter "Ef"
classifications are candidates for possible strong lenses, massive ellipticals
with an emission-line galaxy in one or more lensed images. The GAMA lens and
occulting galaxy candidate samples are similar in size to those identified in
the entire SDSS. This blended spectrum sample stands as a testament of the
power of this highly complete, second-largest spectroscopic survey in existence
and offers the possibility to expand e.g., strong gravitational lens surveys.