Most {\em ab initio} calculations on fullerene molecules have been carried
out based on the paradigm of the H\"uckel model. This is consistent with the
restricted nature of the independent-particle model underlying such
calculations, even in single-reference-based correlated approaches. On the
other hand, previous works on some of these molecules using model Hamiltonians
have clearly indicated the importance of short-range inter-atomic spin-spin
correlations. In this work, we consider {\em ab initio} non-collinear
Hartree--Fock (HF) solutions for representative fullerene systems: the bowl,
cage, ring, and pentagon isomers of C$_{20}$, and the larger C$_{30}$,
C$_{36}$, C$_{60}$, C$_{70}$, and C$_{84}$ fullerene cages. In all cases but
the ring we find that the HF minimum corresponds to a truly non-collinear
solution with a torsional spin density wave. Optimized geometries at the
generalized HF (GHF) level lead to fully symmetric structures, even in those
cases where Jahn-Teller distortions have been previously considered. The nature
of the GHF solutions is consistent with the $\pi$-electron space becoming
polyradical in nature: each $p$-orbital remains effectively singly occupied.
The spin frustration, induced by the pentagon rings in an otherwise
anti-ferromagnetic background, is minimized at the HF level by aligning the
spins in non-collinear arrangements. The long-range magnetic ordering observed
is reminiscent of the character of broken symmetry HF solutions in polyacene
systems.