A combined fluid/kinetic model is developed to calculate thermally driven
escape of N2 from Pluto's atmosphere for two solar heating conditions: no
heating above 1450 km and solar minimum heating conditions. In the combined
model, one-dimensional fluid equations are applied for the dense part of the
atmosphere, while the exobase region is described by a kinetic model and
calculated by the direct simulation Monte Carlo method. Fluid and kinetic parts
of the model are iteratively solved in order to maintain constant total mass
and energy fluxes through the simulation region. Although the atmosphere was
found to be highly extended, with an exobase altitude at ~6000 km at solar
minimum, the outflow remained subsonic and the escape rate was within a factor
of two of the Jeans rate for the exobase temperatures determined. This picture
is drastically different from recent predictions obtained solely using a fluid
model which, in itself, requires assumptions about atmospheric density, flow
velocity and energy flux carried away by escaping molecules at infinity. Gas
temperature, density, velocity and heat flux versus radial distance are
consistent between the hydrodynamic and kinetic model up to the exobase, only
when the energy flux across the lower boundary and escape rate used to solve
the hydrodynamic equations is obtained from the kinetic model. This limits the
applicability of fluid models to atmospheric escape problems. Finally, the
recent discovery of CO at high altitudes, the effect of Charon and the
conditions at the New Horizon encounter are briefly considered.