During the last few years a number of works have proposed that planetary
harmonics regulate solar oscillations and the Earth climate. Herein I address
some critiques. Detailed analysis of the data do support the planetary theory
of solar and climate variation. In particular, I show that: (1) high-resolution
cosmogenic 10Be and 14C solar activity proxy records both during the Holocene
and during the Marine Interglacial Stage 9.3 (MIS 9.3), 325-336 kyr ago,
present four common spectral peaks at about 103, 115, 130 and 150 yrs (this is
the frequency band that generates Maunder and Dalton like grand solar minima)
that can be deduced from a simple solar model based on a generic non-linear
coupling between planetary and solar harmonics; (2) time-frequency analysis and
advanced minimum variance distortion-less response (MVDR) magnitude squared
coherence analysis confirm the existence of persistent astronomical harmonics
in the climate records at the decadal and multidecadal scales when used with an
appropriate window length (110 years) to guarantee a sufficient spectral
resolution. However, the best coherence test can be currently made only by
comparing directly the temperature and astronomical spectra as done in Scafetta
(J. Atmos. Sol. Terr. Phys. 72(13), 951-970, 2010). The spectral coherence
between planetary, solar and climatic oscillations is confirmed at the
following periods: 5.2 yr, 5.93 yr, 6.62 yr, 7.42 yr, 9.1 yr (main lunar tidal
cycle), 10.4 yr (related to the 9.93-10.87-11.86 yr solar cycle harmonics),
13.8-15.0 yr, 20 yr, 30 yr and 61 yr, 103 yr, 115 yr, 130 yr, 150 yr and about
1000 year. This work responds to the critiques of Cauquoin et al. (Astron.
Astrophys. 561, A132, 2014) who ignored alternative planetary theories of solar
variations, and of Holm (J. Atmos. Sol. Terr. Phys. 110-111, 23-27, 2014) who
used inadequate physical and time frequency analysis of the data.