The clustering properties of local, S_{1.4 GHz} > 1 mJy, radio sources are
investigated for a sample of 820 objects drawn from the joint use of the FIRST
and 2dF Galaxy Redshift surveys. To this aim, we present 271 new bj < 19.45
spectroscopic counterparts of FIRST radio sources to be added to those already
introduced in Magliocchetti et al. (2002). The two-point correlation function
for the local radio population is found to be entirely consistent with
estimates obtained for the whole sample of 2dFGRS galaxies. We estimate the
parameters of the real-space correlation function xi(r)=(r/r_0)^{-\gamma},
r_0=6.7^{+0.9}_{-1.1} Mpc and \gamma=1.6\pm 0.1, where h=0.7 is assumed.
Different results are instead obtained if we only consider sources that present
signatures of AGN activity in their spectra. These objects are shown to be very
strongly correlated, with r_0=10.9^{+1.0}_{-1.2} Mpc and \gamma=2\pm 0.1, a
steeper slope than has been claimed in other recent works. No difference is
found in the clustering properties of radio-AGNs of different radio luminosity.
These results show that AGN-fuelled sources reside in dark matter halos more
massive than \sim 10^{13.4} M_{\sun}},higher the corresponding figure for
radio-quiet QSOs. This value can be converted into a minimum black hole mass
associated with radio-loud, AGN-fuelled objects of M_{BH}^{min}\sim 10^9
M_{\sun}. The above results then suggest -at least for relatively faint radio
objects -the existence of a threshold black hole mass associated with the onset
of significant radio activity such as that of radio-loud AGNs; however, once
the activity is triggered, there appears to be no evidence for a connection
between black hole mass and level of radio output. (abridged)