We present multi-wavelength observations of the afterglow of the short
GRB111117A, and follow-up observations of its host galaxy. From rapid optical
and radio observations we place limits of r \gtrsim 25.5 mag at \deltat \approx
0.55 d and F_nu(5.8 GHz) < 18 \muJy at \deltat \approx 0.50 d, respectively.
However, using a Chandra observation at t~3.0 d we locate the absolute position
of the X-ray afterglow to an accuracy of 0.22" (1 sigma), a factor of about 6
times better than the Swift-XRT position. This allows us to robustly identify
the host galaxy and to locate the burst at a projected offset of 1.25 +/- 0.20"
from the host centroid. Using optical and near-IR observations of the host
galaxy we determine a photometric redshift of z=1.3 (+0.3,-0.2), one of the
highest for any short GRB, and leading to a projected physical offset for the
burst of 10.5 +/- 1.7 kpc, typical of previous short GRBs. At this redshift,
the isotropic gamma-ray energy is E_{gamma,iso} \approx 3\times10^51 erg
(rest-frame 23-2300 keV) with a peak energy of E_{pk} \approx 850-2300 keV
(rest-frame). In conjunction with the isotropic X-ray energy, GRB111117A
appears to follow our recently-reported E_x,iso-E_gamma,iso-E_pk universal
scaling. Using the X-ray data along with the optical and radio non-detections
we find that for a blastwave kinetic energy of E_{K,iso} \approx E_{gamma,iso},
the circumburst density is n_0 \sim 3x10^(-4)-1 cm^-3 (for a range of
epsilon_B=0.001-0.1). Similarly, from the non-detection of a break in the X-ray
light curve at t<3 d, we infer a minimum opening angle for the outflow of
theta_j> 3-10 degrees (depending on the circumburst density). We conclude that
Chandra observations of short GRBs are effective at determining precise
positions and robust host galaxy associations in the absence of optical and
radio detections.