Time-dependent three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) simulation
modules are implemented at the Joint Science Operation Center (JSOC) of Solar
Dynamics Observatory (SDO). The modules regularly produce three-dimensional
data of the time-relaxed minimum-energy state of the solar corona using global
solar-surface magnetic-field maps created from Helioseismic Magnetic Imager
(HMI) full-disk magnetogram data. With the assumption of polytropic gas with
specific heat ratio of 1.05, three types of simulation products are currently
generated: i) simulation data with medium spatial resolution using the
definitive calibrated synoptic map of the magnetic field with a cadence of one
Carrington rotation, ii) data with low spatial resolution using the definitive
version of the synchronic frame format of the magnetic field, with a cadence of
one day, and iii) low-resolution data using near-real-time (NRT) synchronic
format of the magnetic field on daily basis. The MHD data available in the JSOC
database are three-dimensional, covering heliocentric distances from 1.025 to
4.975 solar radii, and contain all eight MHD variables: the plasma density,
temperature and three components of motion velocity, and three components of
the magnetic field. This article describes details of the MHD simulations as
well as the production of the input magnetic-field maps, and details of the
products available at the JSOC database interface. In order to assess the
merits and limits of the model, we show the simulated data in early 2011 and
compare with the actual coronal features observed by the Atmospheric Imaging
Assembly (AIA) and the near-Earth in-situ data.