We show that the higher range of the heliolongitudinal asymmetry of the solar
wind speed in the positive polarity period (Apos) than in the negative polarity
period (Aneg) is one of the important reasons of the larger amplitudes of the
27-day variation of the galactic cosmic ray (GCR) intensity in the period of
1995-1997 (Apos) than in 1985-1987 (Aneg). Subsequently, different ranges of
the heliolongitudinal asymmetry of the solar wind speed jointly with equally
important corresponding drift effect are general causes of the polarity
dependence of the amplitudes of the 27-day variation of the GCR intensity. At
the same time, we show that the polarity dependence is feeble for the last
unusual minimum epoch of solar activity 2007-2009 (Aneg); the amplitude of the
27-day variation of the GCR intensity shows only a tendency of the polarity
dependence. We present a three dimensional (3-D) model of the 27-day variation
of GCR based on the Parkers transport equation. In the 3-D model is implemented
a longitudinal variation of the solar wind speed reproducing in situ
measurements and corresponding divergence-free interplanetary magnetic field
(IMF) derived from the Maxwells equations. We show that results of the proposed
3-D modeling of the 27-day variation of GCR intensity for different polarities
of the solar magnetic cycle are in good agreement with the neutron monitors
experimental data. To reach a compatibility of the theoretical modeling with
observations for the last minimum epoch of solar activity 2007-2009 (Aneg) a
parallel diffusion coefficient was increased by 40 percent