Let $\mathcal{T}$ be a rooted and weighted tree, where the weight of any node
is equal to the sum of the weights of its children. The popular Treemap
algorithm visualizes such a tree as a hierarchical partition of a square into
rectangles, where the area of the rectangle corresponding to any node in
$\mathcal{T}$ is equal to the weight of that node. The aspect ratio of the
rectangles in such a rectangular partition necessarily depends on the weights
and can become arbitrarily high.
  We introduce a new hierarchical partition scheme, called a polygonal
partition, which uses convex polygons rather than just rectangles. We present
two methods for constructing polygonal partitions, both having guarantees on
the worst-case aspect ratio of the constructed polygons; in particular, both
methods guarantee a bound on the aspect ratio that is independent of the
weights of the nodes.
  We also consider rectangular partitions with slack, where the areas of the
rectangles may differ slightly from the weights of the corresponding nodes. We
show that this makes it possible to obtain partitions with constant aspect
ratio. This result generalizes to hyper-rectangular partitions in
$\mathbb{R}^d$. We use these partitions with slack for embedding ultrametrics
into $d$-dimensional Euclidean space: we give a $\mathop{\rm
polylog}(\Delta)$-approximation algorithm for embedding $n$-point ultrametrics
into $\mathbb{R}^d$ with minimum distortion, where $\Delta$ denotes the spread
of the metric, i.e., the ratio between the largest and the smallest distance
between two points. The previously best-known approximation ratio for this
problem was polynomial in $n$. This is the first algorithm for embedding a
non-trivial family of weighted-graph metrics into a space of constant dimension
that achieves polylogarithmic approximation ratio.