We propose robust and efficient algorithms for the joint sparse recovery
problem in compressed sensing, which simultaneously recover the supports of
jointly sparse signals from their multiple measurement vectors obtained through
a common sensing matrix. In a favorable situation, the unknown matrix, which
consists of the jointly sparse signals, has linearly independent nonzero rows.
In this case, the MUSIC (MUltiple SIgnal Classification) algorithm, originally
proposed by Schmidt for the direction of arrival problem in sensor array
processing and later proposed and analyzed for joint sparse recovery by Feng
and Bresler, provides a guarantee with the minimum number of measurements. We
focus instead on the unfavorable but practically significant case of
rank-defect or ill-conditioning. This situation arises with limited number of
measurement vectors, or with highly correlated signal components. In this case
MUSIC fails, and in practice none of the existing methods can consistently
approach the fundamental limit. We propose subspace-augmented MUSIC (SA-MUSIC),
which improves on MUSIC so that the support is reliably recovered under such
unfavorable conditions. Combined with subspace-based greedy algorithms also
proposed and analyzed in this paper, SA-MUSIC provides a computationally
efficient algorithm with a performance guarantee. The performance guarantees
are given in terms of a version of restricted isometry property. In particular,
we also present a non-asymptotic perturbation analysis of the signal subspace
estimation that has been missing in the previous study of MUSIC.