This dissertation presents synthetic spectra and response functions of the
red giant stellar line emission model of active galactic nuclei. Our results
agree with the fundamental line emission characteristics of active galactic
nuclei within the model uncertainties if the following additional assumptions
are made: 1) the mean stellar mass loss rates decrease with distance from the
black hole, and 2) the mean ionization parameters are lower than those
postulated in Kazanas (1989). For models with enhanced mass loss, the
zero-intensity-full-widths of the line profiles are proportional to the black
hole mass to the power of 1/3. This scaling relation suggests that the black
hole masses of NLS1s (narrow-line Seyfert 1s) are relatively low. Models with
enhanced mass loss also predict minimum line/continuum delays that are
proportional to the zero-intensity-full-widths of the profiles. Because of
their high column densities, these models yield triangle-shaped response
functions, which are not generally observed. On the other hand, models without
enhanced mass loss yield line-continuum delays that are proportional to the
square root of the continuum luminosity, which is constant with empirical
results. Models with high enough intercloud (interstellar) medium densities and
a BLR-occulting accretion disk have line shifts. The broadest line emission and
absorption profile components of lines similar to C IV, N V, and O VI are
redshifted. Conversely, the narrowest emission and absorption profile
components are blueshifted in such models. These results appear to agree with
observations (e.g., Done & Krolik 1996).