We present the reconstructed real-space density and the predicted velocity
fields from the Two Mass Redshift Survey (2MRS). The 2MRS is the densest
all-sky redshift survey to date and includes about 23,200 galaxies with
extinction corrected magnitudes brighter than K = 11.25. Our method is based on
the expansion of these fields in Fourier-Bessel functions. Within this
framework, the linear redshift distortions only affect the density field in the
radial direction and can easily be deconvolved using a distortion matrix.
Moreover, in this coordinate system, the velocity field is related to the
density field by a simple linear transformation. The shot noise errors in the
reconstructions are suppressed by means of a Wiener filter which yields a
minimum variance estimate of the density and velocity fields. Using the
reconstructed real-space density fields, we identify all major superclusters
and voids. At 50 Mpc/h, our reconstructed velocity field indicates a back-side
infall to the Great Attractor region of vi = (491 +/- 200)(beta/0.5) km/sec in
the Local Group frame and v = (64 +/- 205)(beta/0.5) km/sec in the cosmic
microwave background (CMB) frame and beta is the redshift distortion parameter.
The direction of the reconstructed dipole agrees well with the dipole derived
by Erdogdu et al. (2006). The misalignment between the reconstructed 2MRS and
the CMB dipoles drops to 13 degrees at around 5000 km/sec but then increases at
larger distances. A version of this paper with high resolution figures can be
obtained from http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/~ppzzpe