This paper studies Gramian-based reachability metrics for bilinear control
systems. In the context of complex networks, bilinear systems capture scenarios
where an actuator not only can affect the state of a node but also
interconnections among nodes. Under the assumption that the input's infinity
norm is bounded by some function of the network dynamic matrices, we derive a
Gramian-based lower bound on the minimum input energy required to steer the
state from the origin to any reachable target state. This result motivates our
study of various objects associated to the reachability Gramian to quantify the
ease of controllability of the bilinear network: the minimum eigenvalue
(worst-case minimum input energy to reach a state), the trace (average minimum
input energy to reach a state), and its determinant (volume of the ellipsoid
containing the reachable states using control inputs with no more than unit
energy). We establish an increasing returns property of the reachability
Gramian as a function of the actuators, which in turn allows us to derive a
general lower bound on the reachability metrics in terms of the aggregate
contribution of the individual actuators. We conclude by examining the effect
on the worst-case minimum input energy of the addition of bilinear inputs to
difficult-to-control linear symmetric networks. We show that the bilinear
networks resulting from the addition of either inputs at a finite number of
interconnections or at all self loops with weight vanishing with the network
scale remain difficult-to-control. Various examples illustrate our results.