Dihadron azimuthal correlations containing a high transverse momentum ($\pt$)
trigger particle are sensitive to the properties of the nuclear medium created
at RHIC through the strong interactions occurring between the traversing parton
and the medium, i.e. jet-quenching. Previous measurements revealed a strong
modification to dihadron azimuthal correlations in Au+Au collisions with
respect to \pp\ and \dAu\ collisions. The modification increases with the
collision centrality, suggesting a path-length dependence to the jet-quenching
effect. This paper reports STAR measurements of dihadron azimuthal correlations
in mid-central (20-60\%) Au+Au collisions at $\snn=200$~GeV as a function of
the trigger particle's azimuthal angle relative to the event plane,
$\phis=|\phit-\psiEP|$. The azimuthal correlation is studied as a function of
both the trigger and associated particle $\pt$. The subtractions of the
combinatorial background and anisotropic flow, assuming Zero Yield At Minimum
(\zyam), are described. The away-side correlation is strongly modified, and the
modification varies with $\phis$, which is expected to be related to the
path-length that the away-side parton traverses. The pseudo-rapidity ($\deta$)
dependence of the near-side correlation, sensitive to long range $\deta$
correlations (the ridge), is also investigated. The ridge and jet-like
components of the near-side correlation are studied as a function of $\phis$.
The ridge appears to drop with increasing $\phis$ while the jet-like component
remains approximately constant. ...