We examine information nature of observing interactive processes during
conversion of observed uncertainty to observer certainty, which leads to
minimax information law of both optimal extraction and consumption of
information: by getting maximum of information from each of its observed
minimum and minimizing the maximum while spending it. The minimax is dual
complimentary variation principle, establishing mathematical information law,
which functionally unifies the following observer regularities. Integral
measuring each observing process under multiple trial actions. Converting the
observed uncertainty to information-certainty by generation of internal
information micro and macrodynamics and verification of trial information.
Enclosing the internal dynamics in information network (IN). Building the IN
dynamic hierarchical logic, which integrates the observer requested information
in the IN code. Enfolding the concurrent information in temporary build the IN
high level logic that requests new information for the running observer IN.
Self-forming the observer inner dynamical and geometrical structures with a
limited boundary, shaped by the IN information geometry during the time-space
cooperative processes. These functional regularities create united information
mechanism, whose integral logic self-operates this mechanism, transforming
multiple interacting uncertainties to physical reality-matter, human
information and cognition, which originate the observer information intellect.
This logic holds invariance of information and physical regularities, following
from the minimax information law.