In this article, we study minimization of the Landau-de Gennes energy for
liquid crystal elastomer.The total energy, is of the sum of the Lagrangian
elastic stored energy function of the elastomer and the Eulerian Landau-de
Gennes energy of the liquid crystal. Our model consider two sources of
anisotropy represented by the traceless nematic order tensor $Q$ (rigid units),
and the positive definite step-length tensor $L$ (network). This work is
motivated by the study of cytoskeletal networks which can be regarded as
consisting of rigid rod units crosslinked into a polymeric-type network.
  Due to the mixed Eulerian-Lagrangian structure of the energy, it is essential
that the deformation maps $\varphi$ be invertible. We require sufficient
regularity of the fields $(\varphi, Q)$ of the problem, and that the
deformation map satisfies the Ciarlet-Necas condition. These, in turn,
determine what boundary conditions are admissible, which include the case of
Dirichlet conditions on both fields. The approach of including the
Rapini-Papoular surface energy for the pull-back tensor $\tilde Q$ is also
discussed. The regularity requirements lead us to consider powers of the
gradient of the order tensor $Q$ higher than quadratic in the energy.
  We assume polyconvexity of the stored energy function with respect to the
effective deformation tensor and apply methods from isotropic nonlinear
elasticity. We formulate a necessary and sufficient condition to guarantee this
invertibility property in terms of the growth to infinity of the bulk liquid
crystal energy $f(Q)$, as the minimum eigenvalue of $Q$ approaches the singular
limit of $-\frac{1}{3}$. $L$ becomes singular as the minimum eigenvalue of $Q$
reaches $-\frac{1}{3}$. Lower bounds on the eigenvalues of $Q$ are needed to
ensure compatibility between the theories of Landau-de Gennes and Maier-Saupe
of nematics (see Ball 2010).