We present high-resolution imaging of the young binary T Tauri in 3 mm
continuum emission. Compact dust emission with integrated flux density 50 +/- 6
mJy is resolved in an aperture synthesis map at 0.5" resolution and is centered
at the position of the optically visible component, T Tau N. No emission above
a 3 sigma level of 9 mJy is detected 0.7" south of T Tau N at the position of
the infrared companion, T Tau S. We interpret the continuum detection as
arising from a circumstellar disk around T Tau N and estimate its properties by
fitting a flat-disk model to visibilities at wavelengths of 1 and 3 mm and to
the flux density at 7 mm. Given the data, probability distributions are
calculated for values of the free parameters, including the temperature,
density, dust opacity, and the disk outer radius. The radial variation in
temperature and density is not narrowly constrained by the data. The most
likely value of the frequency dependence of the dust opacity, beta =
0.53^{+0.27}_{-0.17}, is consistent with that of disks around other T Tauri
stars in which grain growth is believed to have taken place. The outer radius,
R = 41^{+26}_{-14} AU, is smaller than the projected binary separation, and may
indicate truncation of the disk. The total mass estimated for the disk,
log(M/M_sun) = {-2.4}^{+0.7}_{-0.6}, is similar to masses observed around many
young single sources and to the minimum nebular mass required to form a
planetary system like our own. This observation strongly suggests that the
presence of a binary companion does not rule out the formation of a sizeable
planetary system.