A catalogue of the morphological features for the complete Spitzer Survey of
Stellar Structure in Galaxies (S$^4$G), including 2352 nearby galaxies, is
presented. The measurements are made using 3.6 $\mu$m images, largely tracing
the old stellar population; at this wavelength the effects of dust are also
minimal. The measured features are the sizes, ellipticities, and orientations
of bars, rings, ringlenses, and lenses. Measured in a similar manner are also
barlenses (lens-like structures embedded in the bars), which are not lenses in
the usual sense, being rather the more face-on counterparts of the boxy/peanut
structures in the edge-on view. In addition, pitch angles of spiral arm
segments are measured for those galaxies where they can be reliably traced.
More than one pitch angle may appear for a single galaxy. All measurements are
made in a human-supervised manner so that attention is paid to each galaxy. We
used isophotal analysis, unsharp masking, and fitting ellipses to measured
structures. We find that the sizes of the inner rings and lenses normalized to
barlength correlate with the galaxy mass: the normalized sizes increase toward
the less massive galaxies; it has been suggested that this is related to the
larger dark matter content in the bar region in these systems. Bars in the low
mass galaxies are also less concentrated, likely to be connected to the mass
cut-off in the appearance of the nuclear rings and lenses. We also show
observational evidence that barlenses indeed form part of the bar, and that a
large fraction of the inner lenses in the non-barred galaxies could be former
barlenses in which the thin outer bar component has dissolved.