We begin by considering second order dynamical systems of the from $\ddot
x(t) + \Gamma (\dot x(t)) + \lambda(t)B(x(t))=0$, where $\Gamma: {\cal
H}\rightarrow{\cal H}$ is an elliptic bounded self-adjoint linear operator
defined on a real Hilbert space ${\cal H}$, $B: {\cal H}\rightarrow{\cal H}$ is
a cocoercive operator and $\lambda:[0,+\infty)\rightarrow [0,+\infty)$ is a
relaxation function depending on time. We show the existence and uniqueness of
strong global solutions in the framework of the Cauchy-Lipschitz-Picard Theorem
and prove weak convergence for the generated trajectories to a zero of the
operator $B$, by using Lyapunov analysis combined with the celebrated Opial
Lemma in its continuous version. The framework allows to address from similar
perspectives second order dynamical systems associated with the problem of
finding zeros of the sum of a maximally monotone operator and a cocoercive one.
This captures as particular case the minimization of the sum of a nonsmooth
convex function with a smooth convex one and allows us to recover and improve
several results from the literature concerning the minimization of a convex
smooth function subject to a convex closed set by means of second order
dynamical systems. When considering the unconstrained minimization of a smooth
convex function we prove a rate of ${\cal O}(1/t)$ for the convergence of the
function value along the ergodic trajectory to its minimum value. A similar
analysis is carried out also for second order dynamical systems having as first
order term $\gamma(t) \dot x(t)$, where $\gamma:[0,+\infty)\rightarrow
[0,+\infty)$ is a damping function depending on time.