The thermodynamics of Schwarzschild black holes within an isothermal cavity
and the associated Euclidean Dirichlet boundary-value problem are studied for
four and higher dimensions in anti-de Sitter (AdS) space. For such boundary
conditions classically there always exists a unique hot AdS solution and two or
no Schwarzschild-AdS black-hole solutions depending on whether or not the
temperature of the cavity-wall is above a minimum value, the latter being a
function of the radius of the cavity. Assuming the standard area-law of
black-hole entropy, it was known that larger and smaller holes have positive
and negative specific heats and hence are locally thermodynamically stable and
unstable respectively. In this paper we present the first derivation of this by
showing that the standard area law of black-hole entropy holds in the
semi-classical approximation of the Euclidean path integral for such boundary
conditions. We further show that for wall-temperatures above a critical value a
phase transition takes hot AdS to the larger Schwarzschild-AdS within the
cavity. The larger hole thus can be globally thermodynamically stable above
this temperature. The phase transition can occur for a cavity of arbitrary
radius above a (corresponding) critical temperature. In the infinite cavity
limit this picture reduces to that considered by Hawking and Page. The case of
five dimensions is found to be rather special since exact analytic expressions
can be obtained for the masses of the two holes as functions of cavity radius
and temperature thus solving exactly the Euclidean Dirichlet problem. This
makes it possible to compute the on-shell Euclidean action as functions of them
from which other quantities of interest can be evaluated exactly.