We present J-band photometry and low-resolution optical spectroscopy
(600-1000 nm) for one of the faintest substellar member candidates in the young
sigma Ori cluster, SOri 47 (I=20.53, Bejar et al. 1999). Its very red
(I-J)=3.3+/-0.1 color and its optical spectrum allow us to classify SOri 47 as
an L1.5-type object which fits the low-luminosity end of the cluster
photometric and spectroscopic sequences. It also displays atmospheric features
indicative of low gravity such as weak alkaline lines and hydride and oxide
bands, consistent with the expectation for a very young object still undergoing
gravitational collapse. Our data lead us to conclude that SOri 47 is a true
substellar member of the sigma Ori cluster. Additionally, we present the
detection of LiI in its atmosphere which provides an independent confirmation
of youth and substellarity. Using current theoretical evolutionary tracks and
adopting an age interval of 1-5 Myr for the sigma Ori cluster, we estimate the
mass of SOri 47 at 0.015+/-0.005 Msun, i.e. at the minimum mass for deuterium
burning, which has been proposed as a definition for the boundary between brown
dwarfs and giant planets. SOri 47 could well be the result of a natural
extension of the process of cloud fragmentation down to the deuterium burning
mass limit; a less likely alternative is that it has originated from a
protoplanetary disc around a more massive cluster member and later ejected from
its orbit due to interacting effects within this rather sparse (~12
objects/pc^3) young cluster.