We consider issues of moduli stabilization and "area codes" for type II flux
compactifications, and the "Inverse Problem" and "Fake Superpotentials" for
extremal (non)supersymmetric black holes in type II compactifications on
(orientifold of) a compact two-parameter Calabi-Yau expressed as a degree-18
hypersurface in WCP^4[1,1,1,6,9] which has multiple singular loci in its moduli
space. We argue the existence of extended "area codes" [1] wherein for the same
set of large NS-NS and RR fluxes, one can stabilize all the complex structure
moduli and the axion-dilaton modulus (to different sets of values) for points
in the moduli space away as well as near the different singular conifold loci
leading to the existence of domain walls. Using techniques of [3] we explicitly
show that given a set of moduli and choice of a gauge(the superpotential)
corresponding to an extremal black hole, one can actually work out the
corresponding charges (of the extremal black hole) - the so-called "inverse
problem". We also show the existence of "fake superpotentials" [4]
corresponding to non-BPS extremal black-hole solutions corresponding to the
aforementioned Calabi-Yau three-fold. By including non-perturbative alpha' and
instanton corrections in the Kaehler potential and superpotential [2], we show
the possibility of getting a large-volume non-supersymmetric (A)dS minimum - a
dS minimum without the addition of anti-D3 branes a la KKLT. The chosen
Calabi-Yau has been of relevance also from the point of other studies of
stabilization of the Kaehler moduli via nonperturbative instanton contributions
[5] and the possibility of getting non-supersymmetric AdS vacua (and their
subsequent dS-uplifts) using (alpha')^3 corrections to the Kaehler potential
[6,7,8].