We compute solutions of the Lagrangian-Averaged Navier-Stokes alpha-model
(LANS) for significantly higher Reynolds numbers (up to Re 8300) than have
previously been accomplished. This allows sufficient separation of scales to
observe a Navier-Stokes (NS) inertial range followed by a 2nd LANS inertial
range. The analysis of the third-order structure function scaling supports the
predicted l^3 scaling; it corresponds to a k^(-1) scaling of the energy
spectrum. The energy spectrum itself shows a different scaling which goes as
k^1. This latter spectrum is consistent with the absence of stretching in the
sub-filter scales due to the Taylor frozen-in hypothesis employed as a closure
in the derivation of LANS. These two scalings are conjectured to coexist in
different spatial portions of the flow. The l^3 (E(k) k^(-1)) scaling is
subdominant to k^1 in the energy spectrum, but the l^3 scaling is responsible
for the direct energy cascade, as no cascade can result from motions with no
internal degrees of freedom. We verify the prediction for the size of the LANS
attractor resulting from this scaling. From this, we give a methodology either
for arriving at grid-independent solutions for LANS, or for obtaining a
formulation of a LES optimal in the context of the alpha models. The fully
converged grid-independent LANS may not be the best approximation to a direct
numerical simulation of the NS equations since the minimum error is a balance
between truncation errors and the approximation error due to using LANS instead
of the primitive equations. Furthermore, the small-scale behavior of LANS
contributes to a reduction of flux at constant energy, leading to a shallower
energy spectrum for large alpha. These small-scale features, do not preclude
LANS to reproduce correctly the intermittency properties of high Re flow.