We show that the star known as 2MASS J05162881+2607387 (hereafter J0516) is a
double-lined eclipsing binary with nearly identical low-mass components. The
spectroscopic elements derived from 18 spectra obtained with the High
Resolution Spectrograph on the Hobby-Eberly Telescope during the Fall of 2005
are K_1=88.45 +/- 0.48 km/s and K_2=90.43 +/- 0.60 km/s, resulting in a mass
ratio of$q=K_1/K_2 = 0.978 +/- 0.018 and minimum masses of M_1 sin^{3}i=0.775
+/- 0.016 solar masses and M_2 sin^{3}i=0.759 +/- 0.012 solar masses,
respectively. We have extensive differential photometry of J0516 obtained over
several nights between 2004 January-March (epoch 1) and 2004 October-2005
January plus 2006 January (epoch 2) using the 1m telescope at the Mount Laguna
Observatory. The source was roughly 0.1 mag brighter in all three bandpasses
during epoch 1 when compared to epoch 2. Also, phased light curves from epoch 1
show considerable out-of-eclipse variability, presumably due to bright spots on
one or both stars. In contrast, the phased light curves from epoch 2 show
little out-of-eclipse variability. The light curves from epoch 2 and the radial
velocity curves were analyzed using our ELC code with updated model atmospheres
for low-mass stars. We find the following: M_1=0.787 +/- 0.012 solar masses,
R_1=0.788 +/- 0.015 solar radii, M_2=0.770 +/- 0.009 solar masses, and
R_2=0.817 +/- 0.010 solar radii. The stars in J0516 have radii that are
significantly larger than model predictions for their masses, similar to what
is seen in a handful of other well-studied low-mass double-lined eclipsing
binaries. We compiled all recent mass and radius determinations from low-mass
binaries and determine an empirical mass-radius relation of the form R = 0.0324
+ 0.9343M + 0.0374M^2, where the quantities are in solar units.