An asymmetric surface brightness distribution of the rapidly rotating A7IV-V
star, Altair, has been measured by the Navy Prototype Optical Interferometer
(NPOI). The observations were recorded simultaneously using a triangle of three
long baselines of 30m, 37m, and 64m, on 19 spectral channels, covering the
wavelength range of 520nm to 850nm. The outstanding characteristics of these
observations are (a) high resolution with the minimum fringe spacing of 1.7mas,
easily resolving the 3-milliarcsecond (mas) stellar disk, and (b) the
measurement of closure phase which is a sensitive indicator to the asymmetry of
the brightness distribution of the source. Uniform disk diameters fit to the
measured squared visibility amplitudes confirms the Altair's oblate shape due
to its rapid rotation. The measured observables of Altair showed two features
which are inconsistent with both the uniform-disk and limb-darkened disk
models, while the measured observable of the comparison star, Vega, are
consistent with the limb-darkened disk model. The first feature is that
measured squared visibility amplitudes at the first minimum do not reach 0.0
but rather remain at about 0.02, indicating the existence of a small bright
region on the stellar disk. The other is that the measured closure phases show
non-zero/180 degrees at all spectral channels, which requires an asymmetric
surface brightness distribution. We fitted the measured observables to a model
with a bright spot on a limb-darkened disk and found the observations are well
reproduced by a bright spot, which has relative intensity of 4.7%, on a 3.38
mas limb-darkened stellar disk. Rapid rotation of Altair indicates that this
bright region is a pole, which is brighter than other part of the star owing to
gravity darkening.