We report on high-resolution spectroscopy of the 2009.0 spectroscopic event
of $\eta$ Carinae collected via SMARTS observations using the CTIO 1.5 m
telescope and echelle spectrograph. Our observations were made almost every
night over a two-month interval around the photometric minimum of $\eta$ Car
associated with the periastron passage of a hot companion. The photoionizing
flux of the companion and heating related to colliding winds causes large
changes in the wind properties of the massive primary star. Here we present an
analysis of temporal variations in a sample of spectral lines that are clearly
formed in the wind of the primary star. These lines are affected by a changing
illumination of the flux of the secondary star during the periastron passage.
We document the sudden onset of blue-shifted absorption that occurred in most
of the lines near or slightly after periastron, and we argue that these
absorption components are seen when we view the relatively undisturbed wind of
the foreground primary star. We present time series measurements of the net
equivalent width of the wind lines and of the radial velocities of the
absorption trough minima and the emission peak midpoints. Most lines decrease
in emission strength around periastron, and those high excitation lines formed
close to the primary exhibit a red-ward velocity excursion. We show how these
trends can be explained using an illuminated hemisphere model that is based on
the idea that the emission originates primarily from the side of the primary
facing the hot companion.