In previous articles we have investigated the firing properties of the
standard Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) systems of ordinary and partial differential
equations in response to input currents composed of a drift (mean) and additive
Gaussian white noise. For certain values of the mean current, as the noise
amplitude increased from zero, the firing rate exhibited a minimum and this
phenomenon was called inverse stochastic resonance (ISR). Here we analyse the
underlying transitions from a stable equilibrium point to the limit cycle and
vice-versa. Focusing on the case of a mean input current density $\mu=6.8$ at
which repetitive firing occurs and ISR had been found to be pronounced, some of
the properties of the corresponding stable equilibrium point are found. A
linearized approximation around this point has oscillatory solutions from whose
maxima spikes tend to occur. A one dimensional diffusion is also constructed
for small noise based on the correlations between the pairs of HH variables and
the small magnitudes of the fluctuations in two of them.
  Properties of the basin of attraction of the limit cycle (spike) are
investigated heuristically and also the nature of distribution of spikes at
very small noise corresponding to trajectories which do not ever enter the
basin of attraction of the equilibrium point. Long term trials of duration
500000 ms are carried out for values of the noise parameter $\sigma$ from 0 to
2.0, with results appearing in Section 3. The graph of mean spike count versus
$\sigma$ is divided into 4 regions $R_1,...,R_4,$ where $R_3$ contains the
minimum associated with ISR.