The asteroid (10) Hygiea is the fourth largest asteroid of the Main Belt, by
volume and mass, and it is the largest member of its own family. Previous works
investigated the long-term effects of close encounters with (10) Hygiea of
asteroids in the orbital region of the family, and analyzed the taxonomical and
dynamical properties of members of this family. In this paper we apply the
high-quality SDSS-MOC4 taxonomic scheme of DeMeo and Carry (2013) to members of
the Hygiea family core and halo, we obtain an estimate of the minimum time and
number of encounter necessary to obtain a $3\sigma$ (or 99.7%) compatible
frequency distribution function of changes in proper $a$ caused by close
encounters with (10) Hygiea, we study the behavior of asteroids near secular
resonance configurations, in the presence and absence of the Yarkovsky force,
and obtain a first estimate of the age of the family based on orbital diffusion
by the Yarkovsky and YORP effects with two methods.
  The Hygiea family is at least 2 Byr old, with an estimated age of $T =
3200^{+380}_{-120}$ Myr and a relatively large initial ejection velocity field,
according to the approach of Vokrouhlick\'{y} et al. (2006a, b). Surprisingly,
we found that the family age can be shortened by $\simeq$ 25% if the dynamical
mobility caused by close encounters with (10) Hygiea is also accounted for,
which opens interesting new research lines for the dynamical evolution of
families associated with massive bodies. In our taxonomical analysis of the
Hygiea asteroid family, we also identified a new V-type candidate: the asteroid
(177904) (2005 SV5). If confirmed, this could be the fourth V-type object ever
to be identified in the outer main belt.