We propose a simple phenomenological model describing vibrational dynamics in
a class of materials (like clathrates), which are crystalline compounds with
closed cavities in their structures. In the spirit of a minimalist approach,
our model includes only the minimum of ingredients necessary to capture the
generic features of this class of compounds as brought to light by experiments.
We consider only two kinds of particles: strongly coupled host atoms, which
form the structural cavities, and guest atoms confined in the cavities. In
spite of the confinement, for relatively small amplitude vibrations of the
guest atoms, their interaction with the host particles is assumed to be weaker
than between the host atoms. We calculate self-consistently the vibrational
mode (phonon) line broadenings for the empty and filled (by the guest atoms)
cavities. We show that the soft phonon dispersion sheet, which appears for
weakly bonded guest atoms, yields to large mode broadening via three waves
anharmonic mode coupling. In turn the Umklapp part of this broadening reduces
drastically the phonon thermoconductivity coefficient. We conclude that for a
system with a soft mode component in the vibrational spectrum phonon broadening
is always larger and thermal conductivity is always appreciably smaller than
for a system without this soft mode (provided all other characteristics are the
same). Although our model is minimal, in the sense of ignoring the complexity
of actual guest-host structures, when properly interpreted, it can yield quite
reasonable values for a variety of measurable quantities.