The ubiquity of supermassive black holes (SMBHs) at the centers of nearby
luminous galaxies can arise from the multiple mergers experienced by dark
matter halos in hierarchical structure formation models, even if only a small
fraction of these galaxies harbor SMBHs at high redshifts. We illustrate this
possibility using cosmological Monte Carlo simulations of the merger history of
dark matter halos and their associated SMBHs. In our most extreme models, in
order to populate nearly every bright galaxy with a SMBH at z=0, only a few
percent of the halos with virial temperatures above 10^4 K are required to
harbor a SMBH at high redshift. This possibility must be included in studies of
the luminosity function and the clustering properties of quasars. We predict
the number of SMBH merger events that are detectable by the gravitational wave
experiment LISA, as a function of redshift, out to z=5. Although the event
rates can be significantly reduced in scenarios with rare SMBHs, a minimum of
\~10 detectable merger events per year is predicted if SMBH binaries coalesce
efficiently. The observed distribution of events with redshift could yield
valuable information on the SMBH formation process. If SMBH binaries do not
coalesce, we find that at least several SMBH slingshot ejections probably
occurred from z=5 to the present in each galaxy more massive than ~10^11 Msun
at z=0. Although our results are sensitive to the minimum cooling mass assumed
for the formation of SMBHs, we expect the qualitative predictions of our models
to be robust.