Using phase resolved spectroscopic observations obtained with the Ultraviolet
and Visual Echelle Spectrograph on ESO's Kueyen Very Large Telescope
supplemented by spectroscopic observations obtained with the Boller and Chivens
Spectrograph on the Walter Baade Magellan telescope, we found sinusoidal
radial-velocity variations with a semi-amplitude 327+-17 km/s. From previous
observations and from the fact that the epoch of minimum velocity arrived early
with respect to the epoch calculated from pulse timing we know that the
companion star is suffering from irradiation. Since we most likely observed
primarily the side of the companion star facing the observer at phase ~0.75 the
velocity quoted above is not the true radial velocity semi-amplitude of the
companion star. Assuming a uniform contribution to the line profile from this
hemisphere yields a radial velocity semi-amplitude of 280+-26 km/s for a
systemic velocity of 54+-24 km/s; if the contribution is instead weighted
somewhat more towards the side of the companion facing the X-ray source then
the true semi-amplitude is larger than this value. Together with the well
constrained inclination (81<i<84 degrees) and the mass-function determined from
pulse-timing analysis (2.03+-0.03 x 10^-2 Msun), we derive a lower limit to the
mass of the neutron star and to that of the companion star of 0.97+-0.24 Msun
and 0.33+-0.05 Msun, respectively (1 sigma; including uncertainties in the
inclination). We briefly discuss other aspects of the spectrum and the
implications of our findings.