The paper defends the thesis that it's possible to maintain some conceptual
preconditions of overcoming of relativistic intentions in modern philosophy of
science ("there are no any general foundations in philosophy of science"). We
found two general foundations in philosophy of science as a minimum. From the
first side it's realistic to reveal on the base of special understanding of
time the value of time not only in natural thought (especially in theory of
gravity) but also in humanitarian knowledge. That's why philosophy of science
has independent position in epistemology and ontology corresponding to
interpretation of time as a general category of scientific thinking. The nature
of time has internally inconsistent (paradoxical) character. Time is phenomenon
which existing and not existing at the same time. This phenomenon is identified
with imaginary movement and also ideal (formal) process of formation of the
nature. The general understanding of time is connected with its "mathematical"
meaning as calculable formal regulation of language practice and also the
universal organization rules of quantitative parameters of intelligence of
natural (physical) processes. From the second side we can say that exist an
actual branch of philosophy of science. It exists on the basis of disclosure of
aprioristic limits of consciousness of its cultural and historical development.
There is possible a special interpretation of time. In that context time is the
connection of an action of the cultural phenomenon or its "energy" with some
kind of "weight", the historical importance of a separate limit of
consciousness through analog of "distance" as intensity of cultural and
historical space (or "oppositional nature of interaction of mental
intentions").