Solar activity has significantly changed over the last two Schwabe cycles.
After a long and deep minimum at the end of Cycle 23, the weaker activity of
Cycle 24 contrasts with the previous cycles. In this work, the response of the
solar acoustic oscillations to solar activity is used in order to provide
insights on the structural and magnetic changes in the sub-surface layers of
the Sun during this on-going unusual period of low activity. We analyze 18
years of continuous observations of the solar acoustic oscillations collected
by the Sun-as-a-star GOLF instrument onboard the SoHO spacecraft. From the
fitted mode frequencies, the temporal variability of the frequency shifts of
the radial, dipolar, and quadrupolar modes are studied for different frequency
ranges which are sensitive to different layers in the solar sub-surface
interior. The low-frequency modes show nearly unchanged frequency shifts
between Cycles 23 and 24, with a time evolving signature of the quasi-biennial
oscillation, which is particularly visible for the quadrupole component
revealing the presence of a complex magnetic structure. The modes at higher
frequencies show frequency shifts 30% smaller during Cycle~24, which is in
agreement with the decrease observed in the surface activity between Cycles 23
and 24. The analysis of 18 years of GOLF oscillations indicates that the
structural and magnetic changes responsible for the frequency shifts remained
comparable between Cycle 23 and Cycle 24 in the deeper sub-surface layers below
1400 km as revealed by the low-frequency modes. The frequency shifts of the
higher-frequency modes, sensitive to shallower regions, show that Cycle 24 is
magnetically weaker in the upper layers of Sun.