(abridged) B[e] supergiants are known to possess geometrically thick dusty
disks. Disk-forming wind models have, however, been found to be insufficient in
reproducing the observed dust emission. This problem arises due to the severe
assumption that, as for classical Be stars, the near-infrared excess emission
originates in the disk. Modeling of the free-free and free-bound emission
therefore results in an upper limit for the disk mass loss rate, hampering dust
condensation in the disk. We propose a revised scenario for the non-spherical
winds of B[e] supergiants: a normal B-type line-driven polar wind and an
outflowing disk-forming wind that is neutral in hydrogen at, or very close to
the stellar surface. We concentrate on the pole-on seen LMC B[e] supergiant
R126 and calculate the line luminosities of the optical [OI] emission lines
with an outflowing disk scenario. In addition, we compute the free-free and
free-bound emission from a line-driven polar wind and model the spectral energy
distribution in the optical and near-infrared. Good fits to the [OI] line
luminosities are achieved for an outflowing disk that is neutral in hydrogen
right from the stellar surface. Neutral thereby means that hydrogen is ionized
by less than 0.1%. Consequently, the free-free and free-bound emission cannot
(dominantly) arise from the disk and cannot limit the disk mass loss rate. The
hydrogen neutral outflowing disk scenario therefore provides an ideal
environment for efficient dust formation. The spectral energy distribution in
the optical and near-infrared range can be well fitted with the stellar
continuum plus free-free and free-bound emission from the polar line-driven
wind. Our modeling further delivers minimum values for \dot{M}(disk) > 2.5d-5
M_sun/yr and for the density contrast between equatorial and polar wind of ~10.