We present a detailed calculation of the evolution of low-mass ($<
0.25~M_\odot $) helium white dwarfs. These white dwarfs (the optical companions
to binary millisecond pulsars) are formed via long-term, low-mass binary
evolution. After detachment from the Roche lobe, the hot helium cores have a
rather thick hydrogen layer with mass between 0.01 to 0.06$~M_\odot $. Due to
mixing between the core and outer envelope, the surface hydrogen content is 0.5
to 0.35, depending on the initial value of the heavy element (Z) and the
initial secondary mass. We found that the majority of our computed models
experience one or two hydrogen shell flashes. We found that the mass of the
helium dwarf in which the hydrogen shell flash occurs depends on the chemical
composition. The minimum helium white dwarf mass in which a hydrogen flash
takes place is 0.213$~M_\odot $ (Z=0.003), 0.198$~M_\odot $ (Z=0.01),
0.192$~M_\odot $ (Z=0.02) or 0.183$~M_\odot $ (Z=0.03). The duration of the
flashes (independent of chemical composition) is between few $\times 10^6 $
years to few $\times 10^7 $ years. In several flashes the white dwarf radius
will increase so much that it forces the model to fill its Roche lobe again.
Our calculations show that cooling history of the helium white dwarf depends
dramatically on the thickness of the hydrogen layer. We show that the
transition from a cooling white dwarf with a temporary stable hydrogen-burning
shell to a cooling white dwarf in which almost all residual hydrogen is lost in
a few thermal flashes (via Roche-lobe overflow) occurs between
0.183-0.213$~M_\odot $ (depending on the heavy element value).