We consider the perturbative stability of non-supersymmetric configurations
in N=1 supergravity models with a spectator sector not involved in
supersymmetry breaking. Motivated by the supergravity description of complex
structure moduli in Large Volume Compactifications of type IIB-superstrings, we
concentrate on models where the interactions are consistent with the
supersymmetric truncation of the spectator fields, and we describe their
couplings by a random ensemble of generic supergravity theories. We
characterise the mass spectrum of the spectator fields in terms of the
statistical parameters of the ensemble and the geometry of the scalar manifold.
Our results show that the non-generic couplings between the spectator and the
supersymmetry breaking sectors can stabilise all the tachyons which typically
appear in the spectator sector before including the supersymmetry breaking
effects, and we find large regions of the parameter space where the
supersymmetric sector remains stable with probability close to one. We discuss
these results about the stability of the supersymmetric sector in two
physically relevant situations: non-supersymmetric Minkowski vacua, and
slow-roll inflation driven by the supersymmetry breaking sector. For the class
of models we consider, we have reproduced the regimes in which the KKLT and
Large Volume Scenarios stabilise all supersymmetric moduli. We have also
identified a new regime in which the supersymmetric sector is stabilised at a
very robust type of dS minimum without invoking a large mass hierarchy.