A particular case of Caccetta-H\"{a}ggkvist conjecture, says that a digraph
of order $n$ with minimum out-degree at least $1/3n$ contains a directed cycle
of length at most 3. Recently, Kral, Hladky and Norine proved that a digraph of
order $n$ with minimum out-degree at least $0.3465n$ contains a directed cycle
of length at most 3 (which currently is the best result). A weaker particular
case says that a digraph of order $n$ with minimum semi-degree at least $1/3n$
contains a directed triangle. In a recent paper, by using the result of Kral et
al, the contributor proved that for $\beta\geq 0.343545$, any digraph $D$ of order
$n$ with minimum semi-degree at least $\beta n$ contains a directed cycle of
length at most 3 (which currently is the best result). This means that for a
given integer $d\geq 1$, every digraph with minimum semi-degree $d$ and of
order $md$ with $m\leq 2.91082$, contains a directed cycle of length at most 3.
In particular, every oriented graph with minimum semi-degree $d$ and of order
$md$ with $m\leq 2.91082$, contains a directed triangle. In this paper, by
using the result of Kral et al, we prove that every oriented graph with minimum
semi-degree $d$, of order $md$ with $2.91082< m\leq 3$ and of strong
connectivity at most $0.679d$, contains a directed triangle. This will be
implied by a more general and more precise result, valid not only for $2.91082<
m\leq 3$ but also for larger values of $m$. As application, we improve two
existing results. The first result (Authors Broersma and Li), concerns the
number of the directed cycles of length 4 of a triangle free oriented graph of
order $n$ and of minimum semi-degree at least $\frac{n}{3}$. The second result
(Authors Kelly, K\"{u}hn and Osthus), concerns the diameter of a triangle free
oriented graph of order $n$ and of minimum semi-degree at least $\frac{n}{5}$.