Can the distribution of warm-dust compositions in IR-bright galactic disk PNe
be linked to the underlying stellar population? The PNe with warm dust emission
represent a homogeneous population, which is presumably young and minimally
affected by a possible dependence of PN lifetime on progenitor mass. The sample
in paper I thus allows testing the predictions of single star evolution,
through a comparison with synthetic distributions and under the assumption that
tip-of-the-AGB and PN statistics are similar. We construct a schematic model
for AGB evolution (adapted from Groenewegen & de Jong 1993), whose
free-parameters are calibrated with the luminosity function (LF) of C stars in
the LMC, the initial-final mass relation, and the range of PN compositions. The
observed metallicity gradient and distribution of star forming regions with
galactocentric radius (Bronfman et al. 2000) allow us to synthesise the
galactic disk PN progenitor population. We find the fraction of O-rich PNe,
f(O), is a tight constraint on AGB parameters. For our best model, a minimum PN
progenitor mass Mmin=1Msun predicts that about 50% of all young PNe should be
O-rich, compared to an observed fraction of 22%; thus Mmin=1.2Msun, at a 2sigma
confidence level. By contrast, current AGB models for single stars can account
neither for the continuous range of N enrichment (Leisy & Dennefeld 1996), nor
for the observation that the majority of very C-rich PNe have Peimbert type I
(paper I). f(O) is thus an observable much easier to model. The decrease in
f(O) with galactocentric radius, as reported in paper I, is a strong property
of the synthetic distribution, independent of Mmin. This trend reflects the
sensitivity of the surface temperature of AGB stars and of the core mass at the
first thermal pulse to the galactic metallicity gradient.