A fabrication process for Nb/Al-AlOx/Nb Josephson junctions (JJs) with sizes
down to 200 nm has been developed on a 200-mm-wafer tool set typical for CMOS
foundry. This process is the core of several nodes of a roadmap for
fully-planarized fabrication processes for superconductor integrated circuits
with 4, 8, and 10 niobium layers developed at MIT Lincoln Laboratory. The
process utilizes 248 nm photolithography, anodization, high-density plasma
etching, and chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) for planarization of SiO$_2$
interlayer dielectric. JJ electric properties and statistics such as on-chip
and wafer spreads of critical current, $I_c$, normal-state conductance, $G_N$,
and run-to-run reproducibility have been measured on 200-mm wafers over a broad
range of JJ diameters from 200 nm to 1500 nm and critical current densities,
$J_c$, from 10 kA/$cm^2$ to 50 kA/$cm^2$ where the JJs become self-shunted.
Diffraction-limited photolithography of JJs is discussed. A relationship
between JJ mask size, JJ size on wafer, and the minimum printable size for
coherent and partially coherent illumination has been worked out. The $G_N$ and
$I_c$ spreads obtained have been found to be mainly caused by variations of the
JJ areas and agree with the model accounting for an enhancement of mask errors
near the diffraction-limited minimum printable size of JJs. $I_c$ and $G_N$
spreads from 0.8% to 3% have been obtained for JJs with sizes from 1500 nm down
to 500 nm. The spreads increase to about 8% for 200-nm JJs. Prospects for
circuit densities > $10^6$ JJ/$cm^2$ and 193-nm photolithography for JJ
definition are discussed.