We study the concentration of dark matter halos and its evolution in N-body
simulations of the standard LCDM cosmology. The results presented in this paper
are based on 4 large N-body simulations with about 10 billion particles each:
the Millennium-I and II, Bolshoi, and MultiDark simulations. The MultiDark (or
BigBolshoi) simulation is introduced in this paper. This suite of simulations
with high mass resolution over a large volume allows us to compute with
unprecedented accuracy the concentration over a large range of scales (about
six orders of magnitude in mass), which constitutes the state-of-the-art of our
current knowledge on this basic property of dark matter halos in the LCDM
cosmology. We find that there is consistency among the different simulation
data sets. We confirm a novel feature for halo concentrations at high
redshifts: a flattening and upturn with increasing mass. The concentration
c(M,z) as a function of mass and the redshift and for different cosmological
parameters shows a remarkably complex pattern. However, when expressed in terms
of the linear rms fluctuation of the density field sigma(M,z), the halo
concentration c(sigma) shows a nearly-universal simple U-shaped behaviour with
a minimum at a well defined scale at sigma=0.71. Yet, some small dependences
with redshift and cosmology still remain. At the high-mass end (sigma < 1) the
median halo kinematic profiles show large signatures of infall and highly
radial orbits. This c-sigma(M,z) relation can be accurately parametrized and
provides an analytical model for the dependence of concentration on halo mass.
When applied to galaxy clusters, our estimates of concentrations are
substantially larger -- by a factor up to 1.5 -- than previous results from
smaller simulations, and are in much better agreement with results of
observations. (abridged)