The last solar minimum activity period, and the consequent minimum modulation
conditions for cosmic rays, was unusual. The highest levels of galactic protons
were recorded at Earth in late 2009 in contrast to expectations. Proton spectra
observed for 2006 to 2009 from the PAMELA cosmic ray detector on-board the
Resurs-DK1 satellite are presented together with the solutions of a
comprehensive numerical model for the solar modulation of cosmic rays. The
model is used to determine what mechanisms were mainly responsible for the
modulation of protons during this period, and why the observed spectrum for
2009 was the highest ever recorded. From mid-2006 until December 2009 we find
that the spectra became significantly softer because increasingly more low
energy protons had reached Earth. To simulate this effect, the rigidity
dependence of the diffusion coefficients had to decrease significantly below ~3
GeV. The modulation minimum period of 2009 can thus be described as relatively
more "diffusion dominated" than previous solar minima. However, we illustrate
that drifts still had played a significant role but that the observable
modulation effects were not as well correlated with the waviness of the
heliospheric current sheet as before. Protons still experienced global gradient
and curvature drifts as the heliospheric magnetic field had decreased
significantly until the end of 2009, in contrast to the moderate decreases
observed during previous minimum periods. We conclude that all modulation
processes contributed to the observed increases in the proton spectra for this
period, exhibiting an intriguing interplay of these major mechanisms.