Using deep near-IR and optical observations of the HDF-N from the HST NICMOS
and WFPC2 and from the ground, we examine the spectral energy distributions
(SEDs) of Lyman break galaxies (LBGs) at 2.0 < z < 3.5. The UV-to-optical
rest-frame SEDs of the galaxies are much bluer than those of present-day spiral
and elliptical galaxies, and are generally similar to those of local starburst
galaxies with modest amounts of reddening. We use stellar population synthesis
models to study the properties of the stars that dominate the light from LBGs.
Under the assumption that the star-formation rate is continuous or decreasing
with time, the best-fitting models provide a lower bound on the LBG mass
estimates. LBGs with ``L*'' UV luminosities are estimated to have minimum
stellar masses ~ 10^10 solar masses, or roughly 1/10th that of a present-day L*
galaxy. By considering the effects of a second component of maximally-old
stars, we set an upper bound on the stellar masses that is ~ 3-8 times the
minimum estimate. We find only loose constraints on the individual galaxy ages,
extinction, metallicities, initial mass functions, and prior star-formation
histories. We find no galaxies whose SEDs are consistent with young (< 10^8
yr), dust-free objects, which suggests that LBGs are not dominated by ``first
generation'' stars, and that such objects are rare at these redshifts. We also
find that the typical ages for the observed star-formation events are
significantly younger than the time interval covered by this redshift range (~
1.5 Gyr). From this, and from the relative absence of candidates for quiescent,
non-star-forming galaxies at these redshifts in the NICMOS data, we suggest
that star formation in LBGs may be recurrent, with short duty cycles and a
timescale between star-formation events of < 1 Gyr. [Abridged]