Irreversible broadening of spectral holes in chlorin-doped polystyrene glass
was studied for the first time in the temperature cycling experiments under
high pressure (by raising the temperature from 5 K to various magnitudes up to
18 K and turning back to 5 K at several fixed pressures between 0 and 5 kbar).
At all pressures the increment in the hole width observed after completing a
temperature cycle exhibits a slightly superlinear (proportional to T to the
power 3/2) dependence on the cycling temperature. The magnitude of this
increment is essentially reduced under high pressure (e.g., at 4.9 kbar it
makes up less than 2/3 of its initial value obtained at ambient pressure). The
residual broadening of holes is interpreted as a result of irreversible
thermally induced spectral diffusion arising from interaction of the electronic
transition in a dopant molecule with two-level systems (TLSs) which perform
thermally activated overbarrier jumps between two possible states of a TLS. The
pressure effects are treated theoretically within the scope of the soft
anharmonic potential model with asymmetric distribution of the cubic
anharmonicity parameter. It is shown that more abundant are TLSs with such
double-well potentials where the minimum, corresponding to a larger glass
volume, is placed at a higher energy than the minimum, corresponding to a
smaller volume. In this case, applied pressure reduces the number of almost
symmetric TLSs (having very small energy difference between the two minima),
which provide the largest contribution to the residual broadening of spectral
holes after a temperature cycle. Our earlier results on isothermal hole burning
at various fixed pressures [V. Hizhnyakov et al., Phys. Rev. B 62, 11296
(2000)] also qualitatively fit into this picture.