We have observed selected Fraunhofer lines, both integrated over the Full
Disk and for a small circular region near the center of the solar disk, on
1,215 days for the past 30 years. Full Disk results: Ca II K 393 nm nicely
tracks the 11 year magnetic cycle based on sunspot number with a peak amplitude
in central intensity of ~37%. The wavelength of the mid-line core absorption
feature, called K3, referenced to nearby photospheric Fe, displays an activity
cycle variation with an amplitude of 3 milli-Angstroms. Other chromospheric
lines track Ca II K intensity with lower relative amplitudes. Low photosphere:
Temperature sensitive CI 5380 nm appears constant in intensity to 0.2%. High
photosphere: The cores of strong Fe I lines, Na D1 and D2, and the Mg I b
lines, present a puzzling signal perhaps indicating a role for the 22 y Hale
cycle. Solar minimum around 1985 was clearly seen, but the following minimum in
1996 was missing. This anomalous behavior is not seen in comparison atmospheric
O2. Center Disk results: Both Ca II K and C I 538 nm intensities are constant,
indicating that the basal quiet atmosphere is unaffected by cycle magnetism
within our observational error. A lower limit to the Ca II K central intensity
atmosphere is 0.040. The wavelength of Ca II K3 varies with the cycle by 6
milli-Angstroms, a factor of 2X over the full disk value. This may indicate the
predominance of radial motions at Center Disk. This is not an effect of motions
in plages since they are absent at Center Disk. This 11 y variation in the
center of chromospheric lines could complicate the radial velocity detection of
planets around solar-type stars. An appendix provides instructions for URL
access to both the raw and reduced data.