A variety of modeling techniques is used with surface photometry from the
literature and recently acquired high-accuracy stellar kinematic data to
constrain the three-dimensional mass distribution in the luminous cuspy
elliptical galaxy NGC 1700. First, we model the radial velocity field and
photometry, and, using a Bayesian technique, estimate the triaxiality T and
short-to-long axis ratio c in five concentric annuli between approximately 1
and 3 effective radii. The results are completely consistent with T being
constant inside about 2.5 r_e (36 arcsec; 6.7/h kpc). Adding an assumption of
constant T as prior information gives an upper limit of T < 0.16 (95%
confidence); this relaxes to T < 0.22 if it is also assumed that there is
perfect alignment between the angular momentum and the galaxy's intrinsic short
axis. Near axisymmetry permits us then to use axisymmetric models to constrain
the radial mass profile. Using the Jeans (moment) equations, we demonstrate
that 2-integral, constant-M/L models cannot fit the data; but a 2-integral
model in which the cumulative enclosed M/L increases by a factor of roughly 2
from the center out to 12/h kpc can. Three-integral models constructed by
quadratic programming show that, in fact, no constant-M/L model is consistent
with the kinematics. Anisotropic 3-integral models with variable M/L, while not
uniquely establishing a minimum acceptable halo mass, imply, as do the moment
models, a cumulative M/L_B approximately 10 h at 12/h kpc. We conclude that NGC
1700 represents the best stellar dynamical evidence to date for dark matter in
elliptical galaxies.