Dynamical and statistical properties of tracer advection are studied in a
family of flows produced by three point-vortices of different signs. A collapse
of all three vortices to a single point is then possible. Tracer dynamics is
analyzed by numerical construction of Poincar\'{e} sections, and is found to be
strongly chaotic: advection pattern in the region around the center of
vorticity is dominated by a well developed stochastic sea, which grows as the
vortex system approaches the collapse; at the same time, the islands of regular
motion around vortices, known as vortex cores, shrink. An estimation of the
core's radii from the minimum distance of vortex approach to each other is
obtained. Tracer transport was found to be anomalous: for all of the three
numerically investigated cases, the variance of the tracer distribution grows
faster than a linear function of time, corresponding to a super-diffusive
regime. The transport exponent varies with time decades, implying the presence
of multi-fractal transport features. Yet, its value is never too far from 3/2,
indicating some kind of universality. Statistics of Poincar\'{e} recurrences is
non-Poissonian: distributions have long power-law tails. The anomalous
properties of tracer statistics are the result of the complex structure of the
advection phase space, in particular, of strong stickiness on the boundaries
between the regions of chaotic and regular motion. The role of the different
phase space structures involved in this phenomenon is analyzed. Based on this
analysis, a kinetic description is constructed, which takes into account
different time and space scalings by using a fractional equation.