We present an analysis of sixteen galaxy clusters, one group and one galaxy
drawn from the Chandra X-ray Observatory's data archive. These systems possess
prominent X-ray surface brightness depressions associated with cavities or
bubbles that were created by interactions between powerful radio sources and
the surrounding hot gas. The minimum energy associated with the cavities ranges
between pV~10^55 erg in galaxies, groups, and poor clusters to pV~10^60 erg in
rich clusters. We evaluate the hypothesis that cooling in the hot gas can be
quenched by energy injected into the surrounding gas by the rising bubbles.
Nearly half of the systems in this study may have instantaneous mechanical
luminosities large enough to balance cooling, at least for a short period of
time, if the cavities are filled with a relativistic gas. We find a trend or
upper envelope in the distribution of central X-ray luminosity versus
instantaneous mechanical luminosity with the sense that the most powerful
cavities are found in the most X-ray luminous systems. Such a trend would be
expected if many of these systems produce bubbles at a rate that scales in
proportion to the cooling rate of the surrounding gas. Finally, we use the
X-ray cavities to measure the mechanical power of radio sources over six
decades of radio luminosity, independently of the radio properties themselves.
We find that the ratio of the instantaneous mechanical (kinetic) luminosity to
the 1.4 GHz synchrotron luminosity ranges from a few to roughly a thousand.
This wide range implies that the 1.4 GHz synchrotron luminosity is an
unreliable gauge of the mechanical power of radio sources.