The resonant activation effect (RA) has been well studied in different ways
during the last two decades. It consists in the presence of a minimum in the
mean time spent by a Brownian particle to exit from a potential well in the
presence of a fluctuating external force, as a function of the mean frequency
(or the correlation time) of the latter. This work studies the role played by
the asymmetry of a piecewise linear potential in the RA effect, and, in
general, the behavior of the mean first passage time and the mean velocity of
the particle crossing through the potential barrier. A strong dependence on the
asymmetry of the potential has been found which can be put in relationship with
the current in the ratchet whose the potential here used is an elementary
module. In this case a current reversal as a function of the frequency of the
switching potential occurs. Comparison of the calculations with the
Doering-Gadua model have been performed, as well as comparison with smooth
symmetrical potentials, by checking for the robustness of the resonant
correlation time. The calculations have been done by solving numerically the
Langevin equation in the presence of an uncorrelated Gaussian noise. The
resonant mean first passage times show an unexpected behavior as a function of
the thermal noise intensity. The related curves present for the different
symmetries an unexpected inversion of their relative behavior beyond a certain
threshold value of the noise. This means that the current reversal can only
occur for weak noise intensities, lower than that threshold value.