We present the discovery of 5 millisecond pulsars found in the mid-Galactic
latitude portion of the High Time Resolution Universe (HTRU) Survey. The
pulsars have rotational periods from ~2.3 to ~7.5 ms, and all are in binary
systems with orbital periods ranging from ~0.3 to ~150 d. In four of these
systems, the most likely companion is a white dwarf, with minimum masses of
~0.2 Solar Masses. The other pulsar, J1731-1847, has a very low mass companion
and exhibits eclipses, and is thus a member of the "black widow" class of
pulsar binaries. These eclipses have been observed in bands centred near
frequencies of 700, 1400 and 3000 MHz, from which measurements have been made
of the electron density in the eclipse region. These measurements have been
used to examine some possible eclipse mechanisms. The eclipse and other
properties of this source are used to perform a comparison with the other known
eclipsing and "black widow" pulsars.
  These new discoveries occupy a short-period and high-dispersion measure (DM)
region of parameter space, which we demonstrate is a direct consequence of the
high time and frequency resolution of the HTRU survey. The large implied
distances to our new discoveries makes observation of their companions unlikely
with both current optical telescopes and the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope.
The extremely circular orbits make any advance of periastron measurements
highly unlikely. No relativistic Shapiro delays are obvious in any of the
systems, although the low flux densities would make their detection difficult
unless the orbits were fortuitously edge-on.