A linear stability analysis has been done to a magnetized disk under a linear
gravity. We have reduced the linearized perturbation equations to a
second-order differential equation which resembles the Schr\"{o}dinger equation
with the potential of a harmonic oscillator. Depending on the signs of energy
and potential terms, eigensolutions can be classified into ``continuum'' and
``discrete'' families. When magnetic field is ignored, the continuum family is
identified as the convective mode, while the discrete family as
acoustic-gravity waves. If the effective adiabatic index $\gamma$ is less than
unity, the former develops into the convective instability. When a magnetic
field is included, the continuum and discrete families further branch into
several solutions with different characters. The continuum family is divided
into two modes: one is the original Parker mode, which is a slow MHD mode
modulated by the gravity, and the other is a stable Alfv\'en mode. The Parker
modes can be either stable or unstable depending on $\gamma$. When $\gamma$ is
smaller than a critical value $\gamma_{cr}$, the Parker mode becomes unstable.
The discrete family is divided into three modes: a stable fast MHD mode
modulated by the gravity, a stable slow MHD mode modulated by the gravity, and
an unstable mode which is also attributed to a slow MHD mode. The unstable
discrete mode does not always exist. Even though the unstable discrete mode
exists, the Parker mode dominates it if the Parker mode is unstable. However,
if $\gamma \ge \gamma_{cr}$, the discrete mode could be the only unstable one.
When $\gamma$ is equal $\gamma_{cr}$, the minimum growth time of the unstable
discrete mode is $1.3 \times 10^8$ years with a corresponding length scale of
2.4 kpc. It is suggestive that the corrugatory features seen in the Galaxy and
external galaxies are related to the unstable discrete mode.