The hydrogen negative ion H$^-$ is the simplest two-electron system that
exists in nature. This system is not only important in astrophysics but it also
serves as an ideal ground to study electron-electron correlations. The peculiar
balance of the correlations between the two electrons with the interaction of
electron-nucleus in H$^-$ makes this system to have only two bound states, one
being the ground state $1s^2\,^{1}\!S^e$ and the other the doubly-excited
metastable state $2p^2\,^{3}\!P^e$ embedded below the hydrogen $n=2$ threshold.
Here we report a calculation for the $2p^2\,^{3}\!P^e$ state of H$^-$ that
yields the energy eigenvalue
$E=-0.125\,355\,451\,242\,864\,058\,376\,012\,313\,25(2)$, in atomic units. Our
result substantially improves the best available result by 16 orders of
magnitude. We further study the critical nuclear charge $Z_{\rm cr}$, the
minimum value of nuclear charge $Z$ that is required to bind a nucleus and two
electrons. Our determination of $Z_{\rm cr}$ for the $2p^2\,^{3}\!P^e$ state of
two-electron systems is $Z_{\rm cr}=0.994\,781\,292\,240\,366\,246\,3(1)$,
corresponding to $1/Z_{\rm cr}= 1.005\,246\,085\,546\,985\,509\,4(1)$, which
improves the best published value of $Z_{\rm cr}$ by about 10 orders of
magnitude. We further investigate in a definitive way the unexplored regime of
$Z < Z_{\rm cr}$ using the method of complex scaling and establish precise
shape resonance poles for the state of $2p^2\,^{3}\!P^e$ in the complex energy
plane.