We provide new, high-resolution A(Ks) extinction maps of the heavily reddened
Galactic midplane based on the Rayleigh-Jeans Color Excess ("RJCE") method.
RJCE determines star-by-star reddening based on a combination of near- and
mid-infrared photometry. The new RJCE-generated maps have 2 x 2 arcmin pixels
and span some of the most severely extinguished regions of the Galaxy -- those
covered with Spitzer+IRAC imaging by the GLIMPSE-I, -II, -3D, and Vela-Carina
surveys, from 256<l<65 deg and, in general, for |b| <= 1-1.5 deg (extending up
to |b|<=4 deg in the bulge). Using RJCE extinction measurements, we generate
dereddened color-magnitude diagrams and, in turn, create maps based on main
sequence, red clump, and red giant star tracers, each probing different
distances and thereby providing coarse three-dimensional information on the
relative placement of dust cloud structures. The maps generated from red giant
stars, which reach to ~18-20 kpc, probe beyond most of the Milky Way extinction
in most directions and provide close to a "total Galactic extinction" map -- at
minimum they provide high angular resolution maps of lower limits on A(Ks).
Because these maps are generated directly from measurements of reddening by the
very dust being mapped, rather than inferred on the basis of some less direct
means, they are likely the most accurate to date for charting in detail the
highly patchy differential extinction in the Galactic midplane. We provide
downloadable FITS files and an IDL tool for retrieving extinction values for
any line of sight within our mapped regions.