We present SCUBA-2 850um observations for 7 very low mass stars (VLMS) and
brown dwarfs (BDs): 3 in Taurus, 4 in the TWA, and all classical T Tauri (cTT)
analogs. We detect 2 of the 3 Taurus disks, but none of the TWA ones. Our
3sigma limits correspond to a dust mass of 1.2 MEarth in Taurus and a mere 0.2
MEarth in the TWA (3--10x deeper than previous work). We combine our data with
other sub-mm/mm surveys of Taurus, rho Oph and the TWA to investigate trends in
disk mass and grain growth during the cTT phase. We find : (1) The minimum disk
outer radius required to explain the upper envelope of sub-mm/mm fluxes is 100
AU for intermediate-mass stars, solar-types and VLMS, and 20 AU for BDs. (2)
While the upper envelope of disk masses increases with Mstar from BDs to VLMS
to solar-types, no increase is seen from solar-type to intermediate-mass stars.
We propose this is due to enhanced photoevaporation around intermediate masses.
(3) Many disks around Taurus and rho Oph intermediate-mass and solar-type stars
evince an opacity index beta of 0--1, indicating large grains. Of the only four
VLMS/BDs in these regions with multi-wavelength data, three are consistent with
large grains, though optically thick disks are not ruled out. (4) For the TWA
VLMS (TWA 30A, B), combining our fluxes with Mdot and ages suggests substantial
grain growth by 10 Myr. The degree of grain growth in the TWA BDs (2M1207A,
SSPM1102) remains largely unknown. (5) A Bayesian analysis shows that
mean(log[Mdisk/Mstar]) = -2.4, roughly constant all the way from
intermediate-mass stars to VLMS/BDs, and (6) the disk mass in close solar-type
Taurus binaries is significantly lower than in singles (by a factor of 10),
while that in wide solar-type Taurus binaries is closer to that in singles
(lower by a factor of 3). (7) We discuss the implications for planet formation,
and for the dependence of Mdot on Mstar.