We report follow-up XMM-Newton and ground-based optical observations of the
unusual X-ray binary SDSS J102347.67+003841.2 (=FIRST J102347.6+003841), and a
new candidate intermediate polar found in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey: SDSS
J093249.57+472523.0. SDSS J1023 was observed in its low-state, with similar
magnitude/color (V=17.4 and B=17.9), and smooth orbital modulation as seen in
most previous observations. We further refine the ephemeris (for photometric
minimum) to: HJD(TT)_min= 2453081.8546(3) + E* 0.198094(1) d. It is easily
detected in X-rays at an unabsorbed flux (0.01-10.0 keV) of 5x10e-13
erg/cm^2/s. Fitting a variety of models we find that: (i) either a hot (kT>~15
keV) optically thin plasma emission model (bremsstrahlung or MEKAL) or a simple
power law can provide adequate fits to the data; (ii) these models prefer a low
column density ~10e19 cm^-2; (iii) a neutron star atmosphere plus power law
model (as found for quiescent low-mass X-ray binaries) can also produce a good
fit (for plausible distances), though only for a much higher column of about
4x10e20 cm^-2 and a very cool atmosphere kT<~50eV. These results support the
case that SDSS J1023 is a transient LMXB, and indeed places it in the subclass
of such systems whose quiescent X-ray emission is dominated by a hard power law
component. Our optical photometry of SDSS J0932 reveals that it is an high
inclination eclipsing system. Combined with its optical characteristics -- high
excitation emission lines, and brightness, yielding a large F_X/F_opt ratio --
its highly absorbed X-ray spectrum argues that SDSS J0932 is a strong IP
candidate. However, only more extensive optical photometry and a detection of
its spin or spin-orbit beat frequency can confirm this classification.
(abridged)