To rationalize the relatively high investment that industrial automation
systems entail, research in the field of intelligent machines should target
high value functions such as fettling, die-finishing, deburring, and
fixtureless manufacturing. For achieving this goal, past work has concentrated
on force control algorithms at the system level with limited focus on
performance expansion at the actuator level. We present a comprehensive
literature review on robot force control, including algorithms, specialized
actuators, and robot control software. A robot force control testbed was
developed using Schunk's PowerCube 6-DOF Arm and a six-axis ATI force/torque
sensor. Using parameter identification experiments, manipulator module inertias
and the motor torque constant were estimated. Experiments were conducted to
study the practical issues involved in implementing stable contact transitions
and programmable endpoint impedance. Applications to human augmentation,
virtual fixtures, and teleoperation are discussed. These experiments are used
as a vehicle to understand the performance improvement achievable at the
actuator level. The approach at UTRRG has been to maximize the choices within
the actuator to enhance its intelligence. Drawing on this 20-year research
history in electromechanical actuator architecture, we propose a new concept
that mixes two inputs, distinct in their velocity ratios, within the same dual
actuator called a Force/Motion Actuator (FMA). Detailed kinematic and dynamic
models of this dual actuator are developed. The actuator performance is
evaluated using simulations with an output velocity specification and resolving
input trajectories using a minimum-norm solution. It is shown that a design
choice of 14:1 motion scaling between the two inputs results in good
sensitivity to output force disturbances without compromising velocity tracking
performance.