Two years ago a new benchmark for the planetary survey was set with the
discoveries of three extrasolar planets with masses below 20$M_\oplus$. In
particular, the serendipitous discovery of the 14$M_\oplus$ planet around $\mu$
Ara found with HARPS with a semi-amplitude of only 4 m s$^{-1}$ put in evidence
the tremendous potential of HARPS for the search of this class of very low-mass
planets. Aiming to discovering new worlds similar to $\mu$ Ara b, we carried
out an intensive campaign with HARPS to observe a selected sample of northern
stars covering a range of metallicity from about solar to twice solar. Two
stars in our program were found to present radial velocity variations
compatible with the presence of a planet-mass companion. The first of these, HD
219218, was found to be orbited by a planet with a minimum mass of 19.8
$M_\oplus$ and an orbital period of 3.83 days. It is the 11th Neptune-mass
planet found so far orbiting a solar-type star. The radial velocity data
clearly show the presence of an additional body to the system, likely of
planetary mass. The second planet orbits HD 102195, has a mass of 0.45$M_{Jup}$
and an orbital period of 4.11 days. This planet has been already announced by
Ge et al. (2006). Our data confirm and improve the orbital solution found by
these contributors. We also show that the high residuals of the orbital solution are
caused by stellar activity, and use the bisectors of the HARPS
cross-correlation function to correct the noise introduced by stellar activity.
An improved orbital solution is obtained after this correction. This kind of
analysis may be used in the future to correct the radial-velocities for stellar
activity induced noise.