We apply the angular momentum loss rates inferred from open cluster stars to
the evolution of cataclysmic variables (CVs). We show that the angular momentum
prescriptions used in earlier CV studies are inconsistent with the measured
rotation data in open clusters. The timescale for angular momentum loss above
the fully convective boundary is ~ 2 orders of magnitude longer than inferred
from the older model, and the observed angular momentum loss properties show no
evidence for a change in a behavior at the fully convective boundary. This
provides evidence against the hypothesis that the period gap is caused by an
abrupt change in the angular momentum loss law when the secondary becomes fully
convective. It also implies that the timescale for CV evolution is much longer
than it was than previously thought, comparable to a Hubble time. For the same
reason, it will be more difficult to produce CVs from the products of common
envelope evolution and implies a lower space density of CVs. The empirical loss
law is consistent with the observed period minimum (1.3 hours) contrary to the
minimum predicted by angular momentum loss due to gravitational radiation alone
(1.1 hours).
  We introduce a method to infer the time-averaged mass accretion rate and
derive mass-period relation for different evolutionary states of the secondary.
The mass-period relationship is more consistent with evolved secondaries than
with unevolved secondaries above the period gap. Implications for the CV period
gap are discussed, including the possibility that two populations of
secondaries could produce the gap.