We study the shear and bulk viscosities of partonic and hadronic matter - as
well as the electric conductivity - as functions of temperature $T$ within the
Parton-Hadron-String Dynamics (PHSD) off-shell transport approach. Dynamical
hadronic and partonic systems in equilibrium are studied by the PHSD
simulations in a finite box with periodic boundary conditions. The ratio of the
shear viscosity to entropy density $\eta(T)/s(T)$ from PHSD shows a minimum
(with a value of about 0.1) close to the critical temperature $T_c$. For
$T<T_c$, i.e. in the hadronic phase, the ratio $\eta/s$ rises fast with
decreasing temperature due to a lower interaction rate of the hadronic system
and a significantly smaller number of degrees-of-freedom. The bulk viscosity
$\zeta(T)$ -- evaluated in the relaxation time approach -- is found to strongly
depend on the effects of mean fields (or potentials) in the partonic phase. We
find a significant rise of the ratio $\zeta(T)/s(T)$ in the vicinity of the
critical temperature $T_c$, when consistently including the scalar mean-field
from PHSD, which is also in agreement with that from lQCD calculations.
Furthermore, we present the results for the ratio $(\eta+3\zeta/4)/s$, which is
found to depend non-trivially on temperature and to generally agree with the
lQCD calculations as well. Within the PHSD calculations, the strong maximum of
$\zeta(T)/\eta(T)$ close to $T_c$ has to be attributed to mean-fields (or
potential) effects that in PHSD are encoded in the temperature dependence of
the quasiparticle masses, which is related to the infrared enhancement of the
resummed (effective) coupling $g(T)$. We also find that the dimensionless ratio
of the electric conductivity over temperature $\sigma_0/T$ rises above $T_c$
approximately linearly with $T$ up to $T=2.5 T_c$, but approaches a constant
above $5 T_c$, as expected qualitatively from perturbative QCD (pQCD).