Based on our prior accurate determination of fundamental parameters for 36
Galactic A-, F- and G-type supergiants and bright giants (luminosity classes I
and II), we undertook a non-LTE analysis of the carbon abundance in their
atmospheres. It is shown that the non-LTE corrections to the C abundances
derived from C I lines are negative and increase with the effective temperature
Teff; the corrections are especially significant for the infrared C I lines
with wavelengths 9060-9660 \AA. The carbon underabundance as a general property
of the stars in question is confirmed; a majority of the stars studied has the
carbon deficiency [C/Fe] between -0.1 and -0.5 dex, with a minimum at -0.7 dex.
When comparing the derived C deficiency with the N excess found by us for the
same stars earlier, we obtain a pronounced N vs. C anti-correlation, which
could be expected from predictions of the theory.We found that the ratio [N/C]
spans mostly the range from 0.3 to 1.7 dex. Both these enhanced [N/C] values
and the C and N anomalies themselves are an obvious evidence of the presence on
a star's surface of mixed material from stellar interiors; so, a majority of
programme stars passed through the deep mixing during the main sequence (MS)
and/or the first dredge-up (FD) phase. Comparison with theoretical predictions
including rotationally-induced mixing shows that the stars are either post-MS
objects with the initial rotational velocities V0 = 200-300 km/s or post-FD
objects with V0 = 0-300 km/s. The observed N vs. C anti-correlation reflects a
dependence of the C and N anomalies on the V0 value: on average the higher V0
the greater the anomalies. It is shown that an absence of detectable lithium in
the atmospheres of the stars, which is accompanied with the observed N excess
and C deficiency, is quite explainable.