We report on multi-epoch optical and near-infrared spectroscopy around the
first overtone ro-vibrational band of CO in the pulsating yellow hypergiant Rho
Cas, one of the most massive stars in the Galaxy and a candidate SN II
progenitor. We argue that the double cores of the CO absorption lines, that
have previously been attributed to separate circumstellar shells expelled
during its recurrent outbursts, result in fact from a superposition of a wide
absorption line and a narrow central emission line. The CO line doubling
returns over subsequent pulsation cycles, where the superposed line emission
assumes its largest intensity near phases of maximum light. We find that the
morphology and behavior of the CO band closely resemble the remarkable
"line-splitting phenomenon" also observed in optical low-excitation atomic
lines. Based on radiative transport calculations we present a simplified model
of the near-IR CO emission emerging from cooler atmospheric layers in the
immediate vicinity of the photosphere. We speculate that the kinetic
temperature minimum in our model results from a periodical pulsation-driven
shock wave. We further discuss a number of alternative explanations for the
origin of the ubiquitous emission line spectrum, possibly due to a
quasi-chromosphere or a steady shock wave at the interface of a fast expanding
wind and the ISM. We present a number of interesting spectroscopic similarities
between Rho Cas and other types of cool variable supergiants such as the RV Tau
and R CrB stars. We further propose a possibly common mechanism for the
enigmatic outburst behavior of these luminous pulsating cool stars.