We have studied the effects of an hypothetical initial generation containing
very massive stars (M > 100 Msun, pair-creation SNe) on the chemical and
photometric evolution of elliptical galaxies. To this purpose, we have computed
the evolution of a typical elliptical galaxy with luminous mass of the order of
10^11 Msun and adopted chemical evolution models already tested to reproduce
the main features of ellipticals. We have tested several sets of yields for
very massive zero-metallicity stars: these stars should produce quite different
amounts of heavy elements than lower mass stars. We found that the effects of
population III stars on the chemical enrichment is negligible if only one or
two generations of such stars occurred, whereas they produce quite different
results from the standard models if they continuously formed for a period not
shorter than 0.1 Gyr. In this case, the results are at variance with the main
observational constraints of ellipticals such as the average [<alpha/Fe>] ratio
in stars and the integrated colors. Therefore, we conclude that if population
III stars ever existed they must have been present for a very short period of
time and their effects on the following evolution of the parent galaxy must
have been negligible. This effect is minimum if a more realistic model with
initial infall of gas rather than the classic monolithic model is adopted.
Ultimately, we conclude that there is no need to invoke a generation of very
massive stars in ellipticals to explain their chemical and photometric
properties.