The differential charged jet cross sections, jet fragmentation distributions,
and jet shapes are measured in minimum bias proton-proton collisions at
centre-of-mass energy $\sqrt{s}=7$ TeV using the ALICE detector at the LHC.
Jets are reconstructed from charged particle momenta in the mid-rapidity region
using the sequential recombination $k_{\rm T}$ and anti-$k_{\rm T}$ as well as
the SISCone jet finding algorithms with several resolution parameters in the
range $R=0.2$ to $0.6$. Differential jet production cross sections measured
with the three jet finders are in agreement in the transverse momentum ($p_{\rm
T}$) interval $20<p_{\rm T}^{\rm jet,ch}<100$ GeV/$c$. They are also consistent
with prior measurements carried out at the LHC by the ATLAS collaboration. The
jet charged particle multiplicity rises monotonically with increasing jet
$p_{\rm T}$, in qualitative agreement with prior observations at lower
energies. The transverse profiles of leading jets are investigated using radial
momentum density distributions as well as distributions of the average radius
containing 80% ($\langle R_{\rm 80} \rangle$) of the reconstructed jet $p_{\rm
T}$. The fragmentation of leading jets with $R=0.4$ using scaled $p_{\rm T}$
spectra of the jet constituents is studied. The measurements are compared to
model calculations from event generators (PYTHIA, PHOJET, HERWIG). The measured
radial density distributions and $\langle R_{\rm 80} \rangle$ distributions are
well described by the PYTHIA model (tune Perugia-2011). The fragmentation
distributions are better described by HERWIG.