We use the phase-field-crystal (PFC) method to investigate the equilibrium
premelting and nonequilibrium shearing behaviors of $[001]$ symmetric tilt
grain boundaries (GBs) at high homologous temperature over the complete range
of misorientation $0<\theta<90^\circ$ in classical models of bcc Fe. We
characterize the dependence of the premelted layer width $W$ as a function of
temperature and misorientation and compute the thermodynamic disjoining
potential whose derivative with respect to $W$ represents the structural force
between crystal-melt interfaces due to the spatial overlap of density waves.
The disjoining potential is also computed by molecular dynamics (MD)
simulations, for quantitative comparison with PFC simulations, and
coarse-grained amplitude equations (AE) derived from PFC that provide
additional analytical insights. We find that, for GBs over an intermediate
range of misorientation ($\theta_{\rm min}<\theta<\theta_{\rm max}$), $W$
diverges as the melting temperature is approached from below, corresponding to
a purely repulsive disjoining potential, while for GBs outside this range
($\theta<\theta_{\rm min}$ or $\theta_{\rm max}<\theta<90^\circ$), $W$ remains
finite at the melting point, with its value corresponding to a shallow
attractive minimum of the disjoining potential. In response to a shear stress
parallel to the GB plane, GBs in PFC simulations exhibit coupled motion normal
to this plane, with a discontinuous change of the coupling factor as a function
of $\theta$ that reflects a transition between two coupling modes, and/or
sliding (shearing of the two grains). The coupling factor for the two coupling
modes is in excellent quantitative agreement with previous theoretical
predictions [J. W. Cahn, Y. Mishin, and A. Suzuki, Acta Mater. 54, 4953
(2006)].