When dedicated positioning systems, such as GPS, are unavailable, a mobile
device has no choice but to fall back on its cellular network for localization.
Due to random variations in the channel conditions to its surrounding base
stations (BS), the mobile device is likely to face a mix of both favorable and
unfavorable geometries for localization. Analytical studies of localization
performance (e.g., using the Cramer-Rao lower bound) usually require that one
fix the BS geometry, and favorable geometries have always been the preferred
choice in the literature. However, not only are the resulting analytical
results constrained to the selected geometry, this practice is likely to lead
to overly-optimistic expectations of typical localization performance. Ideally,
localization performance should be studied across all possible geometric
setups, thereby also removing any selection bias. This, however, is known to be
hard and has been carried out only in simulation. In this paper, we develop a
new tractable approach where we endow the BS locations with a distribution by
modeling them as a Poisson point process (PPP), and use tools from stochastic
geometry to obtain easy-to-use expressions for key performance metrics. In
particular, we focus on the probability of detecting some minimum number of
BSs, which is shown to be closely coupled with a network operator's ability to
obtain satisfactory localization performance (e.g., meet FCC E911
requirements). This metric is indifferent to the localization technique (e.g.,
TOA, TDOA, AOA, or hybrids thereof), though different techniques will
presumably lead to different BS hearability requirements. In order to mitigate
excessive interference due to the presence of dominant interferers in the form
of other BSs, we incorporate both BS coordination and frequency reuse in the
proposed framework and quantify the resulting performance gains analytically.