We present new GMRT observations of HDF 130, an inverse-Compton (IC) ghost of
a giant radio source that is no longer being powered by jets. We compare the
properties of HDF 130 with the new and important constraint of the upper limit
of the radio flux density at 240 MHz to an analytic model. We learn what values
of physical parameters in the model for the dynamics and evolution of the radio
luminosity and X-ray luminosity (due to IC scattering of the cosmic microwave
background (CMB)) of a Fanaroff-Riley II (FR II) source are able to describe a
source with features (lobe length, axial ratio, X-ray luminosity, photon index
and upper limit of radio luminosity) similar to the observations. HDF 130 is
found to agree with the interpretation that it is an IC ghost of a powerful
double-lobed radio source, and we are observing it at least a few Myr after jet
activity (which lasted 5--100 Myr) has ceased. The minimum Lorentz factor of
injected particles into the lobes from the hotspot is preferred to be
$\gamma\sim10^3$ for the model to describe the observed quantities well,
assuming that the magnetic energy density, electron energy density, and lobe
pressure at time of injection into the lobe are linked by constant factors
according to a minimum energy argument, so that the minimum Lorentz factor is
constrained by the lobe pressure. We also apply the model to match the features
of 6C 0905+3955, a classical double FR II galaxy thought to have a low-energy
cutoff of $\gamma\sim10^4$ in the hotspot due to a lack of hotspot
inverse-Compton X-ray emission. The models suggest that the low-energy cutoff
in the hotspots of 6C 0905+3955 is $\gamma\gtrsim 10^3$, just slightly above
the particles required for X-ray emission.