We present an analysis of the visible through near infrared spectrum of Eta
Carinae and its ejecta obtained during the "Eta Carinae Campaign with the UVES
at the ESO VLT". This is a part of larger effort to present a complete Eta
Carinae spectrum, and extends the previously presented analyses with the
HST/STIS in the UV (1240-3159 A) to 10,430 A. The spectrum in the mid and near
UV is characterized by the ejecta absorption. At longer wavelengths, stellar
wind features from the central source and narrow emission lines from the
Weigelt condensations dominate the spectrum. However, narrow absorption lines
from the circumstellar shells are present. This paper provides a description of
the spectrum between 3060 and 10,430 A, including line identifications of the
ejecta absorption spectrum, the emission spectrum from the Weigelt
condensations and the P-Cygni stellar wind features. The high spectral
resolving power of VLT/UVES enables equivalent width measurements of atomic and
molecular absorption lines for elements with no transitions at the shorter
wavelengths. However, the ground based seeing and contributions of nebular
scattered radiation prevent direct comparison of measured equivalent widths in
the VLT/UVES and HST/STIS spectra. Fortunately, HST/STIS and VLT/UVES have a
small overlap in wavelength coverage which allows us to compare and adjust for
the difference in scattered radiation entering the instruments' apertures. This
paper provides a complete online VLT/UVES spectrum with line identifications
and a spectral comparison between HST/STIS and VLT/UVES between 3060 and 3160
A.