We study the clustering properties of groups and of galaxies in groups in the
DEEP2 Galaxy Redshift Survey dataset at z~1. Four clustering measures are
presented: 1) the group correlation function for 460 groups with estimated
velocity dispersions of sigma>200 km/s, 2) the galaxy correlation for the full
galaxy sample, using a flux-limited sample of 9800 objects between 0.7<z<1.0,
3) the galaxy correlation for galaxies in groups, and 4) the group-galaxy
cross-correlation function. Using the observed number density and clustering
amplitude of the groups, the estimated minimum group dark matter halo mass is
M_min~6 10^12 h^-1 M_Sun for a flat LCDM cosmology. Groups are more clustered
than galaxies, with a relative bias of b=1.7 +/-0.04 on scales r_p=0.5-15
Mpc/h. Galaxies in groups are also more clustered than the full galaxy sample,
with a scale-dependent relative bias which falls from b~2.5 +/-0.3 at r_p=0.1
Mpc/h to b~1 +/-0.5 at r_p=10 Mpc/h. The correlation functions for all galaxies
and galaxies in groups can be fit by a power-law on scales r_p=0.05-20 Mpc/h.
We empirically measure the contribution to the projected correlation function
for galaxies in groups from a `one-halo' term and a `two-halo' term by counting
pairs of galaxies in the same or in different groups. The projected
cross-correlation between shows that red galaxies are more centrally
concentrated in groups than blue galaxies at z~1. DEEP2 galaxies in groups
appear to have a shallower radial distribution than that of mock galaxy
catalogs made from N-body simulations, which assume a central galaxy surrounded
by satellite galaxies with an NFW profile. We show that the clustering of
galaxies in groups can be used to place tighter constraints on the halo model
than can be gained from using the usual galaxy correlation function alone.