The goal of the paper is to derive a revised condition of global equilibrium
in complex chemical systems as variational principle in formalism of recently
developed discrete thermodynamics (DTD) of chemical equilibria. In classical
approach the problem of complex equilibrium is solved by minimization of the
system Gibbs' free energy subject to logistic constraints. DTD demands any
isolated system to comprise smaller subentities, which individual equilibria
are based on the balance of internal and external thermodynamic forces, acting
against them. The internal forces are equal to the subsystems thermodynamic
affinities, while external forces originate from subsystems mutual
interactions. Those interactions impose additional constraints on the mother
system Gibbs' free energy minimum. Basic expression of discrete thermodynamics,
being multiplied by subsystems deviations from their "true" thermodynamic
equilibria, is naturally identical to d'Alembert's principle. A thermodynamic
version of d'Alembert's principle in combination with derived from it
thermodynamic version of the principle of virtual work, allowed us to express
the interactive constraints as a condition, that the sum of all subsystems
thermodynamic affinities, multiplied by their deviations from their "true"
equilibria, must be equal to zero. The revised formula of global equilibrium
condition in complex chemical systems contains three terms - system Gibbs' free
energy, logistic constraints, identical to their classical version, and
interactive constraints, originated from the subsystems mutual interactions.