The 38-atom Lennard-Jones cluster has a paradigmatic double-funnel energy
landscape. One funnel ends in the global minimum, a face-centred-cubic (fcc)
truncated octahedron. At the bottom of the other funnel is the second lowest
energy minimum which is an incomplete Mackay icosahedron. We characterize the
energy landscape in two ways. Firstly, from a large sample of minima and
transition states we construct a disconnectivity tree showing which minima are
connected below certain energy thresholds. Secondly we compute the free energy
as a function of a bond-order parameter. The free energy profile has two
minima, one which corresponds to the fcc funnel and the other which at low
temperature corresponds to the icosahedral funnel and at higher temperatures to
the liquid-like state. These two approaches show that the greater width of the
icosahedral funnel, and the greater structural similarity between the
icosahedral structures and those associated with the liquid-like state, are the
cause of the smaller free energy barrier for entering the icosahedral funnel
from the liquid-like state and therefore of the cluster's preferential entry
into this funnel on relaxation down the energy landscape. Furthermore, the
large free energy barrier between the fcc and icosahedral funnels, which is
energetic in origin, causes the cluster to be trapped in one of the funnels at
low temperature. These results explain in detail the link between the
double-funnel energy landscape and the difficulty of global optimization for
this cluster.