To find out a primary determing factor of $T_{c}$ and a pairing mechanism in
high-$T_{c}$ cuprates, we combine the muon spin relaxation results on
$n_{s}/m^{*}$ (superconducting carrier density / effective mass), accumulated
over the last 15 years, with the results from neutron and Raman scattering,
STM, specific heat, Nernst effect and ARPES measurements. We identify the
neutron magnetic resonance mode as an analogue of roton minimum in the
superfluid $^{4}$He, and argue that $n_{s}/m^{*}$ and the resonance mode energy
$\hbar\omega_{res}$ play a primary role in determining $T_{c}$ in the
underdoped region. We propose a picture that roton-like excitations in the
cuprates appear as a coupled mode, which has the resonance mode for spin and
charge responses at different momentum transfers but the same energy transfers,
as detected respectively, by the neutron S=1 mode and the Raman S=0 A1$_{g}$
mode. We shall call this as the ``hybrid spin/charge roton''. After discussing
the role of dimensionality in condensation, we propose a generic phase diagram
of the cuprates with spatial phase separation in the overdoped region as a
special case of the BE-BCS crossover conjecture where the superconducting
coupling is lost rapidly in the overdoped region. Using a microscopic model of
charge motion resonating with antiferomagnetic spin fluctuations, we propose a
possibility that the hybrid spin/charge roton and higher-energy spin
fluctuations mediate the superconducting pairing. In this model, the resonance
modes can be viewed as a meson-analogue and the ``dome'' shape of the phase
diagram can be understood as a natural consequence of departure from the
competing Mott insulator ground state via carrier doping.