In this work we describe a black hole, set on a non-commutative background.
The model, which is relatively simple, is an exact solution of the Einstein
Field Equations. Based on a proposition we put forward, we argue that
introducing a matter density field on a non-commutative background sets up a
mechanism that deforms the field into two distinct fields, one residing
dominantly on the lattice tops (hereafter, on-cell) and the other residing
dominantly in the inter-lattice regions (hereafter, off-cell). The two fields
have different physical and themodynamic characterics which we describe, and
some of which play a role in halting collpse to a singularity. For example, not
surprisingly the on-cell (off-cell) fields manifest standard on-shell
(off-shell) characteristics, respectively. Both the density and the net
mass-energy are unchanged by the deformation mechanism. In our treatment the
mass of a black hole defines its own size scale L of the interior region it
occupies. Moreover, such a length is quantized, L=2N\sqrt{\theta}, in terms of
a minimum length scale \sqrt{\theta}. The approach has the advantage that there
is no degeneracy in mass-confinement since, here, the black hole density is not
a function of the mass (as is the case in some recent treatments). The density
is, instead a fixed quantity. As such, the approach puts an upper bound on
black hole density, making it a universal parameter. The picture that emerges
is that a black hole defined on a non-commutative background is both
non-singular, holographic and quantized. Yet we also find, interestingly, that
when taken over L the average value of the associated energy-stress tensor of
the fields satisfies all classical energy conditions of GR.