We present the analysis of Suzaku and XMM-Newton observations of the
broad-line radio galaxy (BLRG) 3C 111. Its high energy emission shows
variability, a harder continuum with respect to the radio quiet AGN population,
and weak reflection features. Suzaku found the source in a minimum flux level;
a comparison with the XMM-Newton data implies an increase of a factor of 2.5 in
the 0.5-10 keV flux, in the 6 months separating the two observations. The iron
K complex is detected in both datasets, with rather low equivalent width(s).
The intensity of the iron K complex does not respond to the change in continuum
flux. An ultra-fast, high-ionization outflowing gas is clearly detected in the
XIS data; the absorber is most likely unstable. Indeed, during the XMM-Newton
observation, which was 6 months after, the absorber was not detected. No clear
roll-over in the hard X-ray emission is detected, probably due to the emergence
of the jet as a dominant component in the hard X-ray band, as suggested by the
detection above ~ 100 keV with the GSO on-board Suzaku, although the present
data do not allow us to firmly constrain the relative contribution of the
different components. The fluxes observed by the gamma-ray satellites CGRO and
Fermi would be compatible with the putative jet component if peaking at
energies E ~ 100 MeV. In the X-ray band, the jet contribution to the continuum
starts to be significant only above 10 keV. If the detection of the jet
component in 3C 111 is confirmed, then its relative importance in the X-ray
energy band could explain the different observed properties in the high-energy
emission of BLRGs, which are otherwise similar in their other multiwavelength
properties. Comparison between X-ray and gamma-ray data taken at different
epochs suggests that the strong variability observed for 3C 111 is probably
driven by a change in the primary continuum.