I review the physical properties of pair-production supernovae (PPSNe) as
well as the prospects for them to be constrained observationally. In very
massive (140-260 solar mass) stars, much of the pressure support comes from the
radiation field, meaning that they are loosely bound, with an adiabatic
coefficient that is close to the minimum stable value. Near the end of C/O
burning, the central temperature increases to the point that photons begin to
be converted into electron-positron pairs, softening gamma below this critical
value. The result is a runaway collapse, followed by explosive burning that
completely obliterates the star. While these explosions can be up to 100 times
more energetic that core collapse and Type Ia supernovae, their peak
luminosities are only slightly greater. However, due both to copious Ni-56
production and hydrogen recombination, they are brighter much longer, and
remain observable for ~ 1 year. Since metal enrichment is a local process,
PPSNe should occur in pockets of metal-free gas over a broad range of
redshifts, greatly enhancing their detectability, and distributing their
nucleosyntehtic products about the Milky Way. This means that measurements of
the abundances of metal-free stars should be thought of as directly
constraining these objects. It also means that ongoing supernova searches,
already provide weak constraints for PPSN models. A survey with the NIRCam
instrument on JWST, on the other hand, would be able to extend these limits to
z ~ 10. Observing a 0.3 deg^2 patch of sky for one week per year for three
consecutive years, such a program would either detect or rule out the existence
of these remarkable objects.