A variety of fan-based wikis about episodic fiction (e.g., television shows,
novels, movies) exist on the World Wide Web. These wikis provide a wealth of
information about complex stories, but if readers are behind in their viewing
they run the risk of encountering "spoilers" -- information that gives away key
plot points before the intended time of the show's writers. Enterprising
readers might browse the wiki in a web archive so as to view the page prior to
a specific episode date and thereby avoid spoilers. Unfortunately, due to how
web archives choose the "best" page, it is still possible to see spoilers
(especially in sparse archives).
  In this paper we discuss how to use Memento to avoid spoilers. Memento uses
TimeGates to determine which best archived page to give back to the user,
currently using a minimum distance heuristic. We quantify how this heuristic is
inadequate for avoiding spoilers, analyzing data collected from fan wikis and
the Internet Archive. We create an algorithm for calculating the probability of
encountering a spoiler in a given wiki article. We conduct an experiment with
16 wiki sites for popular television shows. We find that 38% of those pages are
unavailable in the Internet Archive. We find that when accessing fan wiki pages
in the Internet Archive there is as much as a 66% chance of encountering a
spoiler. Using sample access logs from the Internet Archive, we find that 19%
of actual requests to the Wayback Machine for wikia.com pages ended in
spoilers. We suggest the use of a different minimum distance heuristic,
minpast, for wikis, using the desired datetime as an upper bound.