This paper investigates an open problem introduced in [14]. Two or more
mobile agents start from different nodes of a network and have to accomplish
the task of gathering which consists in getting all together at the same node
at the same time. An adversary chooses the initial nodes of the agents and
assigns a different positive integer (called label) to each of them. Initially,
each agent knows its label but does not know the labels of the other agents or
their positions relative to its own. Agents move in synchronous rounds and can
communicate with each other only when located at the same node. Up to f of the
agents are Byzantine. A Byzantine agent can choose an arbitrary port when it
moves, can convey arbitrary information to other agents and can change its
label in every round, in particular by forging the label of another agent or by
creating a completely new one.
  What is the minimum number M of good agents that guarantees deterministic
gathering of all of them, with termination?
  We provide exact answers to this open problem by considering the case when
the agents initially know the size of the network and the case when they do
not. In the former case, we prove M=f+1 while in the latter, we prove M=f+2.
More precisely, for networks of known size, we design a deterministic algorithm
gathering all good agents in any network provided that the number of good
agents is at least f+1. For networks of unknown size, we also design a
deterministic algorithm ensuring the gathering of all good agents in any
network but provided that the number of good agents is at least f+2. Both of
our algorithms are optimal in terms of required number of good agents, as each
of them perfectly matches the respective lower bound on M shown in [14], which
is of f+1 when the size of the network is known and of f+2 when it is unknown.