We present the concept of ferroelectric tunnel junctions (FTJs). These
junctions consist of two metal electrodes separated by a nanometer-thick
ferroelectric barrier. The current-voltage characteristics of FTJs are analyzed
under the assumption that the direct electron tunneling represents the dominant
conduction mechanism. First, the influence of converse piezoelectric effect
inherent in ferroelectric materials on the tunnel current is described. The
calculations show that the lattice strains of piezoelectric origin modify the
current-voltage relationship owing to strain-induced changes of the barrier
thickness, electron effective mass, and position of the conduction-band edge.
Remarkably, the conductance minimum becomes shifted from zero voltage due to
the piezoelectric effect, and a strain-related resistive switching takes place
after the polarization reversal in a ferroelectric barrier. Second, we analyze
the influence of the internal electric field arising due to imperfect screening
of polarization charges by electrons in metal electrodes. It is shown that, for
asymmetric FTJs, this depolarizing-field effect also leads to a considerable
change of the barrier resistance after the polarization reversal. However, the
symmetry of the resulting current-voltage loop is different from that
characteristic of the strain-related resistive switching. The crossover from
one to another type of the hysteretic curve, which accompanies the increase of
FTJ asymmetry, is described taking into account both the strain and
depolarizing-field effects. It is noted that asymmetric FTJs with dissimilar
top and bottom electrodes are preferable for the non-volatile memory
applications because of a larger resistance on/off ratio.