This paper introduces the Multi-wavelength Extreme Starburst Sample (MESS), a
new catalog of 138 star-forming galaxies (0.1 < z < 0.3) optically selected
from the SDSS using emission line strength diagnostics to have high absolute
SFR (minimum 11 solar masses per year, with median SFR approx 61 solar masses
per year based on a Kroupa IMF). The MESS was designed to complement samples of
nearby star-forming galaxies such as the luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs),
and ultraviolet luminous galaxies (UVLGs). Observations using the multiband
imaging photometer (MIPS; 24, 70, and 160{\mu}m channels) on the Spitzer Space
Telescope indicate the MESS galaxies have IR luminosities similar to those of
LIRGs, with an estimated median LTIR ~ 3e11 solar luminosities. The selection
criteria for the MESS suggests they may be less obscured than typical far-IR
selected galaxies with similar estimated SFRs. 20 out of 70 of the MESS objects
detected in the GALEX FUV band also appear to be UV luminous galaxies. We
estimate the SFRs based directly on luminosities to determine the agreement for
these methods in the MESS. We compare to the emission line strength technique,
since effective measurement of dust attenuation plays a central role in these
methods. We apply an image stacking technique to the VLA FIRST survey radio
data to retrieve 1.4 GHz luminosity information for 3/4 of the sample covered
by FIRST including sources too faint, and at too high a redshift, to be
detected in FIRST. We also discuss the relationship between the MESS and
samples selected through alternative criteria. Morphologies will be the subject
of a forthcoming paper.