Boxicity of a graph G(V, E) is the minimum integer k such that G can be
represented as the intersection graph of axis parallel boxes in $\mathbb{R}^k$.
Cubicity is a variant of boxicity, where the axis parallel boxes in the
intersection representation are restricted to be of unit length sides. Deciding
whether boxicity (resp. cubicity) of a graph is at most k is NP-hard, even for
k=2 or 3. Computing these parameters is inapproximable within $O(n^{1 -
\epsilon})$-factor, for any $\epsilon >0$ in polynomial time unless NP=ZPP,
even for many simple graph classes.
  In this paper, we give a polynomial time $\kappa(n)$ factor approximation
algorithm for computing boxicity and a $\kappa(n)\lceil \log \log n\rceil$
factor approximation algorithm for computing the cubicity, where $\kappa(n)
=2\left\lceil\frac{n\sqrt{\log \log n}}{\sqrt{\log n}}\right\rceil$. These o(n)
factor approximation algorithms also produce the corresponding box (resp. cube)
representations. As a special case, this resolves the question paused by
Spinrad about polynomial time construction of o(n) dimensional box
representations for boxicity 2 graphs. Other consequences of our approximation
algorithm include $O(\kappa(n))$ factor approximation algorithms for computing
the following parameters: the partial order dimension of finite posets, the
interval dimension of finite posets, minimum chain cover of bipartite graphs,
threshold dimension of split graphs and Ferrer's dimension of digraphs. Each of
these parameters is inapproximable within an $O(n^{1 - \epsilon})$-factor, for
any $\epsilon >0$ in polynomial time unless NP=ZPP and the algorithms we derive
seem to be the first o(n) factor approximation algorithms known for all these
problems.