The components of the wide binary HIP64030=HD 113984 show a large (about 0.25
dex) iron content difference (Desidera et al.~2006 A&A 454, 581). The positions
of the components on the color magnitude diagram suggest that the primary is a
blue straggler. We studied the abundance difference of several elements besides
iron, and we searched for stellar and substellar companions around the
components to unveil the origin of the observed iron difference. A line-by-line
differential abundance analysis for several elements was performed, while
suitable spectral synthesis was performed for C, N, and Li. High precision
radial velocities obtained with the iodine cell were combined with available
literature data. The analysis of additional elements shows that the abundance
difference for the elements studied increases with increasing condensation
temperature, suggesting that accretion of chemically fractionated material
might have occurred in the system. Alteration of C and N likely due to CNO
processing is also observed. We also show that the primary is a spectroscopic
binary with a period of 445 days and moderate eccentricity. The minimum mass of
the companion is 0.17 Msun. Two scenarios were explored to explain the observed
abundance pattern. In the first, all abundance anomalies arise on the blue
straggler. If this is the case, the dust-gas separation may have been occurred
in a circumbinary disk around the blue straggler and its expected white dwarf
companion, as observed in several RV Tauri and post AGB binaries. In the second
scenario, accretion of dust-rich material occurred on the secondary. This would
also explain the anomalous carbon isotopic ratio of the secondary. Such a
scenario requires that a substantial amount of mass lost by the central binary
has been accreted by the wide component.