Wind-blown sand, or "saltation", ejects dust aerosols into the atmosphere,
creates sand dunes, and erodes geological features. We present a comprehensive
numerical model of steady-state saltation that, in contrast to most previous
studies, can simulate saltation over mixed soils. Our model simulates the
motion of saltating particles due to gravity, fluid drag, particle spin, fluid
shear, and turbulence. Moreover, the model explicitly accounts for the
retardation of the wind due to drag from saltating particles. We also developed
a physically-based parameterization of the ejection of surface particles by
impacting saltating particles which matches experimental results. Our numerical
model is the first to reproduce measurements of the wind shear velocity at the
impact threshold (i.e., the lowest shear velocity for which saltation is
possible) and of the aerodynamic roughness length in saltation. It also
correctly predicts a wide range of other saltation processes, including
profiles of the wind speed and particle mass flux, the total height-integrated
mass flux, and the size distribution of saltating particles. Indeed, our model
is the first to reproduce such a wide range of experimental data. Since we use
a minimum number of empirical relations, our model can be easily adapted to
study saltation under a variety of physical conditions, such as saltation on
other planets, saltation under water, and saltating snow. We aim to use our
model to develop a physically-based parameterization of dust emission for use
in climate models.