The specific band structure of graphene, with its unique valley structure and
Dirac neutrality point separating hole states from electron states has led to
the observation of new electronic transport phenomena such as anomalously
quantized Hall effects, absence of weak localization and the existence of a
minimum conductivity. In addition to dissipative transport also supercurrent
transport has already been observed. It has also been suggested that graphene
might be a promising material for spintronics and related applications, such as
the realization of spin qubits, due to the low intrinsic spin orbit
interaction, as well as the low hyperfine interaction of the electron spins
with the carbon nuclei. As a first step in the direction of graphene
spintronics and spin qubits we report the observation of spin transport, as
well as Larmor spin precession over micrometer long distances using single
graphene layer based field effect transistors. The non-local spin valve
geometry was used, employing four terminal contact geometries with
ferromagnetic cobalt electrodes, which make contact to the graphene sheet
through a thin oxide layer. We observe clear bipolar (changing from positive to
negative sign) spin signals which reflect the magnetization direction of all 4
electrodes, indicating that spin coherence extends underneath all 4 contacts.
No significant changes in the spin signals occur between 4.2K, 77K and room
temperature. From Hanle type spin precession measurements we extract a spin
relaxation length between 1.5 and 2 micron at room temperature, only weakly
dependent on charge density, which is varied from n~0 at the Dirac neutrality
point to n = 3.6 10^16/m^2. The spin polarization of the ferromagnetic contacts
is calculated from the measurements to be around 10%.