The drastic effect of local alliances in three-party competition is
investigated in democratic hierarchical bottom-up voting. The results are
obtained analytically using a model which extends a sociophysics frame
introduced in 1986 \cite{psy} and 1990 \cite{lebo} to study two-party systems
and the spontaneous formation of democratic dictatorship. It is worth stressing
that the 1990 paper was published in the Journal of Statistical Physics, the
first paper of its kind in the journal. It was shown how a minority in power
can preserve its leadership using bottom-up democratic elections. However such
a bias holds only down to some critical value of minimum support. The results
were used latter to explain the sudden collapse of European communist parties
in the nineties. The extension to three-party competition reveals the
mechanisms by which a very small minority party can get a substantial
representation at higher levels of the hierarchy when the other two competing
parties are big. Additional surprising results are obtained, which enlighten
the complexity of three-party democratic bottom-up voting. In particular, the
unexpected outcomes of local voting alliances are singled out. Unbalanced
democratic situations are exhibited with strong asymmetries between the actual
bottom support of a party and its associated share of power at the top
leadership. Subtle strategies are identified for a party to maximize its hold
on the top leadership. The results are also valid to describe opinion dynamics
with three competing opinions.