Planetisimals are thought to be formed from the solid material of a
protoplanetary disk by a process of dust aggregation. It is not known how
growth proceeds to kilometre sizes, but it has been proposed that water ice
beyond the snowline might affect this process. To better understand collisional
processes in protoplanetary disks leading to planet formation, the individual
low velocity collisions of small ice particles were investigated. The particles
were collided under microgravity conditions on a parabolic flight campaign
using a purpose-built, cryogenically cooled experimental setup. The setup was
capable of colliding pairs of small ice particles (between 4.7 and 10.8 mm in
diameter) together at relative collision velocities of between 0.27 and 0.51 m
s ^-1 at temperatures between 131 and 160 K. Two types of ice particle were
used: ice spheres and irregularly shaped ice fragments. Bouncing was observed
in the majority of cases with a few cases of fragmentation. A full range of
normalised impact parameters (b/R = 0.0-1.0) was realised with this apparatus.
Coefficients of restitution were evenly spread between 0.08 and 0.65 with an
average value of 0.36, leading to a minimum of 58% of translational energy
being lost in the collision. The range of coefficients of restitution is
attributed to the surface roughness of the particles used in the study.
Analysis of particle rotation shows that up to 17% of the energy of the
particles before the collision was converted into rotational energy.
Temperature did not affect the coefficients of restitution over the range
studied.