New multiband CCD photometry is presented for V407 Peg; the $R_{\rm C}$ light
curves are the first ever compiled. Our light curves, displaying a flat bottom
at secondary minimum and an O'Connell effect, were simultaneously analyzed with
the radial-velocity (RV) curves given by Rucinski et al. (2008). The light
changes of the system are best modeled by using both a hot spot on the
secondary star and a third light. The model represents historical light curves
also. All available minimum epochs, including our six timing measurements, have
been examined and indicate that the eclipse timing variation is mainly caused
by light asymmetries due to the spot activity detected in the light-curve
synthesis. The hot spot may be produced as a result of the impact of the gas
stream from the primary star. Our light and velocity solutions indicate that
V407 Peg is a totally-eclipsing A-type overcontact binary with values of
$q$=0.251, $i$=87$^\circ.6$, $\Delta T$=496 K, $f$=61 $\%$, and
$l_3$=11$\sim$16 $\%$. Individual masses and radii of both components are
determined to be $M_1$=1.72 M$_\odot$, $M_2$=0.43 M$_\odot$, $R_1$=2.15
R$_\odot$, and $R_2$=1.21 R$_\odot$. These results are very different from
previous ones, which is probably caused by the light curves with distorted and
inclined eclipses used in those other analyses. The facts that there are no
objects optically related with the system and that the seasonal RVs show a
large discrepancy in systemic velocity indicate that the third light source
most likely arises from a tertiary component orbiting the eclipsing pair.