Most speech enhancement algorithms make use of the short-time Fourier
transform (STFT), which is a simple and flexible time-frequency decomposition
that estimates the short-time spectrum of a signal. However, the duration of
short STFT frames are inherently limited by the nonstationarity of speech
signals. The main contribution of this paper is a demonstration of speech
enhancement and automatic speech recognition in the presence of reverberation
and noise by extending the length of analysis windows. We accomplish this
extension by performing enhancement in the short-time fan-chirp transform
(STFChT) domain, an overcomplete time-frequency representation that is coherent
with speech signals over longer analysis window durations than the STFT. This
extended coherence is gained by using a linear model of fundamental frequency
variation of voiced speech signals. Our approach centers around using a
single-channel minimum mean-square error log-spectral amplitude (MMSE-LSA)
estimator proposed by Habets, which scales coefficients in a time-frequency
domain to suppress noise and reverberation. In the case of multiple
microphones, we preprocess the data with either a minimum variance
distortionless response (MVDR) beamformer, or a delay-and-sum beamformer (DSB).
We evaluate our algorithm on both speech enhancement and recognition tasks for
the REVERB challenge dataset. Compared to the same processing done in the STFT
domain, our approach achieves significant improvement in terms of objective
enhancement metrics (including PESQ---the ITU-T standard measurement for speech
quality). In terms of automatic speech recognition (ASR) performance as
measured by word error rate (WER), our experiments indicate that the STFT with
a long window is more effective for ASR.