Consider a scenario of broadcasting a common content to a group of
cooperating wireless nodes that are within proximity of each other. Nodes in
this group may receive partial content from the source due to packet losses
over wireless broadcast links. We further consider that packet losses are
different for different nodes. The remaining missing content at each node can
then be recovered, thanks to cooperation among the nodes. In this context, the
minimum amount of time that can guarantee a complete acquisition of the common
content at every node is referred to as the completion time. It has been shown
that instantly decodable network coding (IDNC) reduces the completion time as
compared to no network coding in this scenario. Yet, for applications such as
video streaming, not all packets have the same importance and not all users are
interested in the same quality of content. This problem is even more
interesting when additional, but realistic constraints, such as strict
deadline, bandwidth, or limited energy are added to the problem formulation. We
assert that direct application of IDNC in such a scenario yields poor
performance in terms of content quality and completion time. In this paper, we
propose a novel Content-Aware IDNC scheme that improves content quality and
network coding opportunities jointly by taking into account significance of
each packet towards the desired quality of service (QoS). Our proposed
Content-Aware IDNC maximizes the quality under the completion time constraint,
and minimizes the completion time under the quality constraint.We demonstrate
the benefits of Content-Aware IDNC through simulations.