We study the Kozai dynamics affecting the orbital evolution of transneptunian
objects being captured or not in MMR with Neptune. We provide energy level maps
of the type ({\omega},q) describing the possible orbital paths from Neptune up
to semimajor axis of hundreds of AU. The dynamics for non resonant TNOs with
perihelion distances, q, outside Neptune's orbit, a_N, is quite different from
the dynamics of TNOs with q < a_N, already studied in previous works. While for
the last case there are stable equilibrium points at {\omega} = 0\circ,
90\circ, 180\circ and 270\circ in a wide range of orbital inclinations, for the
former case it appears a family of stable equilibrium points only at a specific
value of the orbital inclination, i \sim 62\circ, that we call critical
inclination. We show this family of equilibrium points is generated by a
mechanism analogue to which drives the dynamics of an artificial satellite
perturbed by an oblate planet. The planetary system also generates an
oscillation in the longitude of the perihelion of the TNOs with i \sim 46\circ,
being Eris a paradigmatic case. We discuss how the resonant condition with
Neptune modify the energy level curves and the location of equilibrium points.
The asymmetric librations of resonances of the type 1:N generate a distortion
in the energy level curves and in the resulting location of the equilibrium
points in the phase space ({\omega},q). We study the effect on the Kozai
dynamics due to the diffusion process in "a" that occurs in the Scattered Disk.
We show that a minimum orbital inclination is required to allow substantial
variations in perihelion distances once the object is captured in MMR and that
minimum inclination is greater for greater semimajor axis.