We present the first determination of the pairwise velocity dispersion (PVD)
for galaxies in different luminosity intervals using the final release of the
Two-Degree Field Galaxy Redshift Survey (2dFGRS). We have discovered quite
surprisingly that the relative velocities of the faint galaxies at small
separation are very high, around $700 \kms$, reaching similar values as the
brightest galaxies. At intermediate luminosities $M^*-1$ ($M^*$ is the
characteristic luminosity of the Schechter function), the relative velocities
exhibit a well defined steep minimum near $400 \kms$. This result has been
derived using a novel method to determine the real space power spectrum and the
PVD from the redshift space power spectrum of the 2dFGRS. Both quantities can
be determined quite reliably. We have taken the parameter $\beta$ equal to
0.45. But we have also checked that the results are changed very little, if we
allow a variation of $\beta$ with luminosity. The result is a challenge to the
current halo model of galaxies of Yang et al. that was obtained by matching the
clustering and luminosity function of the 2dFGRS, but cannot reproduce the
luminosity dependence of the PVD. It may also be an mportant constraint in
general on theories of galaxy formation, such as semi-analytical models and
hydro/N-body simulations of galaxy formation. Combined with the observed
luminosity dependence of clustering, our result implies that a substantial
fraction of faint galaxies, as well as the brightest ones, are in massive halos
of galaxy cluster size, but most of the $M^*$ galaxies are in galactic halos.