New CCD photometric observations of BX Dra were obtained for 26 nights from
2009 April to 2010 June. The long-term photometric behaviors of the system are
presented from detailed studies of the period and light variations, based on
the historical data and our new observations. All available light curves
display total eclipses at secondary minima and inverse O'Connell effects with
Max I fainter than Max II, which are satisfactorily modeled by adding the
slightly time-varying hot spot on the primary star. A total of 87 times of
minimum light spanning over about 74 yrs, including our 22 timing measurements,
were used for ephemeris computations. Detailed analysis of the O-C diagram
showed that the orbital period has changed in combinations with an upward
parabola and a sinusoidal variation. The continuous period increase with a rate
of +5.65 \times 10^-7 d yr^-1 is consistent with that calculated from the
Wilson-Devinney synthesis code. It can be interpreted as a mass transfer from
the secondary to the primary star at a rate of 2.74 \times 10^-7 M\odot yr^-1,
which is one of the largest rates for contact systems. The most likely
explanation of the sinusoidal variation with a period of 30.2 yrs and a
semi-amplitude of 0.0062 d is a light-traveltime effect due to the existence of
a circumbinary object. We suggest that BX Dra is probably a triple system,
consisting of a primary star with a spectral type of F0, its secondary
component of spectral type F1-2, and an unseen circumbinary object with a
minimum mass of M3 = 0.23 M\odot.