Small-scale magnetic features are present everywhere in the solar
photosphere. Theoretical models, numerical calculations, and simulations
describing the formation of these features have existed for a few decades, but
there are only a few observational studies in direct support of the
simulations. In this study we present the evolution of small-scale magnetic
features with a spatial resolution close to 0.15 arcsecond and compare these
observations with those predicted by numerical simulations and also with
previous observational work of a similar nature. We analyze a 40 min time
sequence of full Stokes spectropolarimetric 630.25 nm data from a plage region
near the Sun center. We use line-of-sight velocities and magnetic field
measurements obtained using Milne-Eddington inversion techniques with and
without stray-light compensation along with measured continuum and line minimum
intensities. We discuss the results in relation to earlier observations and
simulations. We present eight cases involving strong downflows and magnetic
field intensification. All cases studied are associated with the formation of a
bright point in the continuum. In three out of the eight cases we find the
presence of weak opposite polarity field in close proximity to the downflow.
Our data are consistent with earlier simulations describing flux tube collapse,
but the transition to a state with stronger field appears transient and
short-lived, rather than resulting in a permanent field intensification. Three
cases of weak opposite polarity field found adjacent to the downflows do not
appear related to reconnection but may be related to overturning convection
pulling down some field lines and leading to up/down "serpentine" field, as
seen in some simulations.