TYC 4110-01037-1 has a low-mass stellar companion, whose small mass ratio and
short orbital period are atypical amongst solar-like (Teff ~< 6000 K) binary
systems. Our analysis of TYC 4110-01037-1 reveals it to be a moderately aged
(~<5 Gyr) solar-like star having a mass of 1.07 +/- 0.08 MSun and radius of
0.99 +/- 0.18 RSun. We analyze 32 radial velocity measurements from the
SDSS-III MARVELS survey as well as 6 supporting radial velocity measurements
from the SARG spectrograph on the 3.6m TNG telescope obtained over a period of
~2 years. The best Keplerian orbital fit parameters were found to have a period
of 78.994 +/- 0.012 days, an eccentricity of 0.1095 +/- 0.0023, and a
semi-amplitude of 4199 +/- 11 m/s. We determine the minimum companion mass (if
sin i = 1) to be 97.7 +/- 5.8 MJup. The system's companion to host star mass
ratio, >0.087 +/- 0.003, places it at the lowest end of observed values for
short period stellar companions to solar-like (Teff ~< 6000 K) stars. One
possible way to create such a system would be if a triple-component stellar
multiple broke up into a short period, low q binary during the cluster
dispersal phase of its lifetime. A candidate tertiary body has been identified
in the system via single-epoch, high contrast imagery. If this object is
confirmed to be co-moving, we estimate it would be a dM4 star. We present these
results in the context of our larger-scale effort to constrain the statistics
of low mass stellar and brown dwarf companions to FGK-type stars via the
MARVELS survey.