The extinction curve derived from ISO mid-infrared (IR) observations of the
Galactic center (GC) exhibits a surprisingly flat behavior in the ~ 3 to 8
micron region, contrary to the deep minimum expected from standard interstellar
dust models consisting of bare silicate and graphite dust particles. We show
that this extinction is likely caused by the presence of metallic needles in
the interstellar medium (ISM) towards the Galactic center. If the needles
contribute only to the 3 - 8 micron extinction, they must have a long
wavelength cutoff at ~ 8 microns, and therefore a typical length over radius
ratio of about 600, smaller than the 3000 aspect ratio determined for the
needles in Cas A. Homogeneously distributed throughout the ISM, they comprise
only a minor mass fraction of the ISM, with a needle-to-H mass ratio of
\~5x10^{-6}, which is equivalent to 0.14% of the silicate dust mass. Their
total ISM abundance can then be readily explained by the combined production in
SNe and O-rich stellar outflows. It is currently unclear how universal the GC
extinction law is. Local 2 - 5 micron extinction measurements seem to be
consistent with the standard extinction law, suggesting a non uniform
distribution of needles in the ISM. The GC observations show that metallic
needles, in spite of their low abundance or non uniform distribution, can be
the dominant source of opacity in the 3 - 8 micron wavelength region. However,
expelled into the intergalactic medium, their abundance is too low to cause any
dimming of cosmological sources, and their length is too short to make them a
significant source of submillimeter emission.