We explore electroweak precision observables (EWPO) and $B$-physics
observables (BPO) in the CMSSM, the mGMSB and the mAMSB. We perform a chi^2
analysis based on the combination of current EWPO and BPO data. For the first
time this allows the comparison of the mGMSB and mAMSB in terms of EWPO and BPO
with the CMSSM. We find that relatively low mass scales in all three scenarios
are favored. However, the current data from EWPO and BPO can hardly exclude any
parameters at the level of Delta chi^2 = 9. Remarkably the mAMSB scenario,
despite having one free GUT scale parameter less than the other two scenarios,
has a somewhat lower total minimum chi^2. We present predictions for the
lightest Higgs boson mass, based on the chi^2 analysis of current data, where
relatively good compatibility with the bounds from Higgs searches at LEP is
found. We also present the predictions for other Higgs sector parameters and
SUSY mass scales, allowing to compare the reach of the LHC and the ILC in the
three scenarios. We furthermore explore the future sensitivities of the EWPO
and BPO for the current best-fit results and for a hypothetical point with
somewhat higher mass scales that results in a similar Higgs and SUSY spectrum
in the three scenarios. We find that the future improvement of the accuracy of
the EWPO and BPO will lead to a significant gain in the indirect parameter
determination. The improvement is similar in the CMSSM, mGMSB and mAMSB and
will yield constraints to the parameter space even for heavy Higgs and SUSY
mass scales.