We study chiral symmetry breaking for fundamental charged fermions coupled
electromagnetically to photons with the inclusion of four-fermion contact
self-interaction term. We employ multiplicatively renormalizable models for the
photon dressing function and the electron-photon vertex which minimally ensures
mass anomalous dimension = 1. Vacuum polarization screens the interaction
strength. Consequently, the pattern of dynamical mass generation for fermions
is characterized by a critical number of massless fermion flavors above which
chiral symmetry is restored. This effect is in diametrical opposition to the
existence of criticality for the minimum interaction strength necessary to
break chiral symmetry dynamically. The presence of virtual fermions dictates
the nature of phase transition. Miransky scaling laws for the electromagnetic
interaction strength and the four-fermion coupling, observed for quenched QED,
are replaced by a mean-field power law behavior corresponding to a second order
phase transition. These results are derived analytically by employing the
bifurcation analysis, and are later confirmed numerically by solving the
original non-linearized gap equation. A three dimensional critical surface is
drawn to clearly depict the interplay of the relative strengths of interactions
and number of flavors to separate the two phases. We also compute the
beta-function and observe that it has ultraviolet fixed point. The power law
part of the momentum dependence, describing the mass function, reproduces the
quenched limit trivially. We also comment on the continuum limit and the
triviality of QED.