We discuss the possibilities of high precision measurement of the solar
neutrino mixing angle $\theta_\odot \equiv \theta_{12}$ in solar and reactor
neutrino experiments. The improvements in the determination of
$\sin^2\theta_{12}$, which can be achieved with the expected increase of
statistics and reduction of systematic errors in the currently operating solar
and KamLAND experiments, are summarised. The potential of LowNu $\nu-e$ elastic
scattering experiment, designed to measure the $pp$ solar neutrino flux, for
high precision determination of $\sin^2\theta_{12}$, is investigated in detail.
The accuracy in the measurement of $\sin^2\theta_{12}$, which can be achieved
in a reactor experiment with a baseline $L \sim (50-70)$ km, corresponding to a
Survival Probability MINimum (SPMIN), is thoroughly studied. We include the
effect of the uncertainty in the value of $\sin^2\theta_{13}$ in the analyses.
A LowNu measurement of the $pp$ neutrino flux with a 1% error would allow to
determine $\sin^2\theta_{12}$ with an error of 14% (17%) at 3$\sigma$ from a
two-generation (three-generation) analysis. The same parameter
$\sin^2\theta_{12}$ can be measured with an uncertainty of 2% (6%) at 1$\sigma$
(3$\sigma$) in a reactor experiment with $L \sim60 $ km, statistics of $\sim$60
GWkTy and systematic error of 2%. For the same statistics, the increase of the
systematic error from 2% to 5% leads to an increase in the uncertainty in
$\sin^2\theta_{12}$ from 6% to 9% at 3$\sigma$. The inclusion of the
$\sin^2\theta_{13}$ uncertainty in the analysis changes the error on
$\sin^2\theta_{12}$ to 3% (9%). The effect of $\sin^2\theta_{13}$ uncertainty
on the $\sin^2\theta_{12}$ measurement in both types of experiments is
considerably smaller than naively expected.