Droplet breakup is a well studied phenomena in Newtonian fluids. One property
of this behavior is that, independent of initial conditions, the minimum radius
exhibits power law scaling with the time left to breakup tau. Because they have
additional structure and shear dependent viscosity, liquid crystals pose an
interesting complication to such studies. Here, we investigate the breakup of a
synthetic nematic liquid crystal known as MBBA. We determine the phase of the
solution by using a cross polarizer setup in situ with the liquid bridge
breakup apparatus. Consistent with previous studies of scaling behavior in
viscous-inertial fluid breakup, when MBBA is in the isotropic phase, the
minimum radius decreases as tau^{1.03 \pm 0.04}. In the nematic phase however,
we observe very different thinning behavior. Our measurements of the thinning
profile are consistent with two interpretations. In the first interpretation,
the breakup is universal and consists of two different regimes. The first
regime is characterized by a symmetric profile with a single minimum whose
radius decreases as tau^{1.51 \pm 0.06}. The second and final regime is
characterized by two minima whose radii decrease as tau^{0.52 \pm 0.11}. These
results are in excellent agreement with previous measurements of breakup in the
nematic phase of liquid crystal 8CB and 5CB. Interestingly, we find that the
entire thinning behavior can also be fit with an exponential decay such that
R_{min} \sim exp((1.2\times 10^2 Hz) tau). This dependence is more reminiscent
of breakup in polymers where entropic stretching slows the thinning process. An
analogous mechanism for slowing in liquid crystals could arise from the role
played by topological constraints governing defect dynamics. Consistent with
this interpretation, crossed polarizer images indicate that significant
alignment of the liquid crystal domains occurs during breakup.