Studies of functional MRI data are increasingly concerned with the estimation
of differences in spatio-temporal networks across groups of subjects or
experimental conditions. Unsupervised clustering and independent component
analysis (ICA) have been used to identify such spatio-temporal networks. While
these approaches have been useful for estimating these networks at the
subject-level, comparisons over groups or experimental conditions require
further methodological development. In this paper, we tackle this problem by
showing how self-organizing maps (SOMs) can be compared within a Frechean
inferential framework. Here, we summarize the mean SOM in each group as a
Frechet mean with respect to a metric on the space of SOMs. We consider the use
of different metrics, and introduce two extensions of the classical sum of
minimum distance (SMD) between two SOMs, which take into account the
spatio-temporal pattern of the fMRI data. The validity of these methods is
illustrated on synthetic data. Through these simulations, we show that the
three metrics of interest behave as expected, in the sense that the ones
capturing temporal, spatial and spatio-temporal aspects of the SOMs are more
likely to reach significance under simulated scenarios characterized by
temporal, spatial and spatio-temporal differences, respectively. In addition, a
re-analysis of a classical experiment on visually-triggered emotions
demonstrates the usefulness of this methodology. In this study, the
multivariate functional patterns typical of the subjects exposed to pleasant
and unpleasant stimuli are found to be more similar than the ones of the
subjects exposed to emotionally neutral stimuli. Taken together, these results
indicate that our proposed methods can cast new light on existing data by
adopting a global analytical perspective on functional MRI paradigms.