We combine optical, near-infrared and mid-infrared spectra and photometry to
construct expanded spectral energy distributions (SEDs) for 145 field age
(\textgreater 500 Myr) and 53 young (lower age estimate \textless 500 Myr)
ultracool dwarfs (M6-T9). This range of spectral types includes very low mass
stars, brown dwarfs, and planetary mass objects, providing fundamental
parameters across both the hydrogen and deuterium burning minimum masses for
the largest sample assembled to date. A subsample of 29 objects have well
constrained ages as probable members of a nearby young moving group (NYMG). We
use 182 parallaxes and 16 kinematic distances to determine precise bolometric
luminosities ($L_\text{bol}$) and radius estimates from evolutionary models
give semi-empirical effective temperatures ($T_\text{eff}$) for the full range
of young and field age late-M, L and T dwarfs. We construct age-sensitive
relationships of luminosity, temperature and absolute magnitude as functions of
spectral type and absolute magnitude to disentangle the effects of degenerate
physical parameters such as $T_\text{eff}$, surface gravity, and clouds on
spectral morphology. We report bolometric corrections in $J$ for both field age
and young objects and find differences of up to a magnitude for late-L dwarfs.
Our correction in $Ks$ shows a larger dispersion but not necessarily a
different relationship for young and field age sequences. We also characterize
the NIR-MIR reddening of low gravity L dwarfs and identify a systematically
cooler $T_\text{eff}$ of up to 300K from field age objects of the same spectral
type and 400K cooler from field age objects of the same $M_H$ magnitude.