We study numerically the influence of contact angle on slow evaporation in
two-dimensional model porous media. For sufficiently low contact angles, the
drying pattern is fractal and can be predicted by a simple model combining the
invasion percolation model with the computation of the diffusive transport in
the gas phase. The overall drying time is minimum in this regime and is
independent of contact angle over a large range of contact angles up to the
beginning of a transition zone. As the contact angle increases in the
transition region, the cooperative smoothing mechanisms of the interface become
important and the width of the liquid gas interface fingers that form during
the evaporation process increases. The mean overall drying time increases in
the transition region up to an upper bound which is reached at a critical
contact angle \Theta_c. The increase in the drying time in the transition
region is explained in relation with the diffusional screening phenomenon
associated with the Laplace equation governing the vapor transport in the gas
phase. Above \Theta_c the drying pattern is character- ized by a flat traveling
front and the mean overall drying time becomes independent of the contact
angle. Drying time fluctuations are studied and are found to be important below
\Theta_c, i.e., when the pattern is fractal. The fluctuations are of the same
order of magnitude regardless of the value of contact angle in this range. The
fluctuations are found to die out abruptly at \Theta_c as the liquid gas
interface becomes a flat front.