We present 11 years of HIRES precision radial velocities (RV) of the nearby
M3V star Gliese 581, combining our data set of 122 precision RVs with an
existing published 4.3-year set of 119 HARPS precision RVs. The velocity set
now indicates 6 companions in Keplerian motion around this star. Differential
photometry indicates a likely stellar rotation period of ~94 days and reveals
no significant periodic variability at any of the Keplerian periods, supporting
planetary orbital motion as the cause of all the radial velocity variations.
The combined data set strongly confirms the 5.37-day, 12.9-day, 3.15-day, and
67-day planets previously announced by Bonfils et al. (2005), Udry et al.
(2007), and Mayor et al (2009). The observations also indicate a 5th planet in
the system, GJ 581f, a minimum-mass 7.0 M_Earth planet orbiting in a 0.758 AU
orbit of period 433 days and a 6th planet, GJ 581g, a minimum-mass 3.1 M_Earth
planet orbiting at 0.146 AU with a period of 36.6 days. The estimated
equilibrium temperature of GJ 581g is 228 K, placing it squarely in the middle
of the habitable zone of the star and offering a very compelling case for a
potentially habitable planet around a very nearby star. That a system harboring
a potentially habitable planet has been found this nearby, and this soon in the
relatively early history of precision RV surveys, indicates that eta_Earth, the
fraction of stars with potentially habitable planets, is likely to be
substantial. This detection, coupled with statistics of the incompleteness of
present-day precision RV surveys for volume-limited samples of stars in the
immediate solar neighborhood suggests that eta_Earth could well be on the order
of a few tens of percent. If the local stellar neighborhood is a representative
sample of the galaxy as a whole, our Milky Way could be teeming with
potentially habitable planets.