Several M dwarfs are targets of systematical monitoring in searches for
Doppler signals caused by low-mass exoplanet companions. As a result, an
emerging population of high-multiplicity planetary systems around low-mass
stars are being detected as well. We optimize classic data analysis methods and
develop new ones to enhance sensitivity towards low-amplitude planets in
high-multiplicity systems. We apply these methods to the public HARPS
observations of GJ 676A, a nearby M dwarf with one reported gas giant
companion. We re-derived Doppler measurements using the template matching
method (HARPS-TERRA). We used refined versions of periodograms to assess the
presence of additional low-mass companions. We analyse the same dataset with
Bayesian tools and compared the performance of both approaches. We confirm the
reported massive gas giant candidate and a long period trend, whose curvature
is now well detected. We also find very secure evidence of two new candidates
in close-in orbits and masses in the super-Earth mass regime. Despite the
increased sensitivity of the new periodogram tools, we find that Bayesian
methods are more sensitive in the early detection of candidate signals. While
hardware development is important, development of data analysis techniques can
help to reveal new results from existing data sets with significantly fewer
resources. This new system holds the record of minimum-mass range (from Msin i
= 4.5 M_Earth to 5 M_Jup) and period range (from 3.6 days to more than 10
years). Although all the planet candidates are substantially more massive, it
is the first exoplanetary system with a general architecture similar to our
solar system. GJ 676A can be happily added to the family of high-multiplicity
planetary systems around M dwarfs.