I summarize recent progress in lattice gauge theory, with particular emphasis
on results from numerical simulations. A major success has been the
determination of the light hadron spectrum in the quenched approximation with
sufficient accuracy to expose statistically significant disagreements with the
experimental spectrum. The differences are, however, fairly small, $\sim
5-10%$. The data are also accurate enough to show evidence for artifacts of
quenching predicted by chiral perturbation theory. I give an update on results
for light quark masses, the kaon B-parameter, and the decay constants and
B-parameters of heavy-light mesons. Most of these are known in the quenched
approximation to $\sim 10%$ accuracy or better, and preliminary estimates of
quenching errors are of comparable size. One exception is the light quark
masses, for which the quenching errors appear to be larger. I discuss the
computational requirements for simulations of QCD with all approximations
controlled, and argue that they will likely begin once computers sustain about
10 Teraflops. This is 30-40 times faster than present state-of-the-art
machines. This estimate assumes that improvements in the discretization of
lattice fermions are sufficient to allow continuum extrapolations to be made
with a minimum lattice spacing of $\approx 0.1 $fm. I review results obtained
with improved discretizations and conclude that they satisfy this requirement
in most cases. Examples of successful improvement include the calculation of
the glueball spectrum and excited heavy-quark potentials in pure Yang-Mills
theory. Finally, I discuss recent developments which may allow simulations of
QCD with full chiral symmetry even at finite lattice spacing.