The energy for the coronal heating must be provided from the convection zone.
The amount and the method by which this energy is transferred into the corona
depends on the properties of the lower atmosphere and the corona itself. We
review: 1) how the energy could be built in the lower solar atmosphere; 2) how
this energy is transferred through the solar atmosphere; and 3) how the energy
is finally dissipated in the chromosphere and/or corona. Any mechanism of
energy transport has to deal with the various physical processes in the lower
atmosphere. We will focus on a physical process that seems to be highly
important in the chromosphere and not deeply studied until recently: the
ion-neutral interaction effects (INIE) in the chromosphere. We review the
relevance and the role of the partial ionization in the chromosphere and show
that this process actually impacts considerably the outer solar atmosphere. We
include analysis of our 2.5D radiative MHD simulations with the Bifrost code
(Gudiksen et al. 2011) including the partial ionization effects on the
chromosphere and corona and thermal conduction along magnetic field lines. The
photosphere, chromosphere and transition region are partially ionized and the
interaction between ionized particles and neutral particles has important
consequences on the magneto-thermodynamics of these layers. The INIE are
treated using generalized Ohm's law, i.e., we consider the Hall term and the
ambipolar diffusion in the induction equation. The interaction between the
different species affects the modeled atmosphere as follows: 1) the ambipolar
diffusion dissipates magnetic energy and increases the minimum temperature in
the chromosphere; 2) the upper chromosphere may get heated and expanded over a
greater range of heights. These processes reveal appreciable differences
between the modeled atmospheres of simulations with and without INIE.