Equilibrium configurations of cold neutron stars near the minimum mass are
studied, using the recent equation of state SLy, which describes in a unified,
physically consistent manner, both the solid crust and the liquid core of
neutron stars. Results are compared with those obtained using an older FPS
equation of state of cold catalyzed matter. The value of M_min\simeq 0.09M_sun
depends very weakly on the equation of state of cold catalyzed matter: it is
0.094 M_sun for the SLy model, and 0.088 M_sun for the FPS one. Central density
at M_min is significantly lower than the normal nuclear density: for the SLy
equation of state we get central density 1.7 10^{14} g/cm^3, to be compared
with 2.3 10^{14} g/cm^3 obtained for the FPS one. Even at M_min, neutron stars
have a small liquid core of radius of about 4 km, containing some 2-3% of the
stellar mass. Neutron stars with 0.09 M_sun <M<0.17 M_sun are bound with
respect to dispersed configuration of the hydrogen gas, but are unbound with
respect to dispersed Fe^56. The effect of uniform rotation on the minimum-mass
configuration of cold neutron stars is studied. Rotation increases the value of
M_min; at rotation period of 10 ms the minimum mass of neutron stars increases
to 0.13 M_sun, and corresponds to the mass-shedding (Keplerian) configuration.
In the case of the shortest observed rotation period of radio pulsars 1.56 ms,
minimum mass of uniformly rotating cold neutron stars corresponds to the
mass-shedding limit, and is found at 0.61 M_sun for the SLy EOS and 0.54 M_sun
for the FPS EOS.