We investigate the plasma dynamics (outflow speed and turbulence) inside
polar plumes. We compare line profiles (mainly of \ion{O}{6}) observed by the
UVCS instrument on SOHO at the minimum of solar cycle 22-23 with model
calculations. We consider Maxwellian velocity distributions with different
widths in plume and inter-plume regions. Electron densities are assumed to be
enhanced in plumes and to approach inter-plume values with increasing height.
Different combinations of the outflow and turbulence velocity in the plume
regions are considered. We compute line profiles and total intensities of the
\ion{H}{1} Ly$\alpha$ and the \ion{O}{6} doublets. The observed profile shapes
and intensities are reproduced best by a small solar wind speed at low
altitudes in plumes that increases with height to reach ambient inter-plume
values above roughly 3-4 $R_\sun$ combined with a similar variation of the
width of the velocity distribution of the scattering atoms/ions. We also find
that plumes very close to the pole give narrow profiles at heights above 2.5
$R_\sun$, which are not observed. This suggests a tendency for plumes to be
located away from the pole. We find that the inclusion of plumes in the model
computations provides an improved correspondence with the observations and
confirms previous results showing that published UVCS observations in polar
coronal holes can be roughly reproduced without the need for large temperature
anisotropy. The latitude distributions of plumes and magnetic flux
distributions are studied by analyzing data from different instruments on SOHO
and with SOLIS.