Sgr A* is extra-ordinarily dim in all wavelengths requiring a very low
accretion rate at the present time. However, at a radial distance of a fraction
of a parsec from Sgr A*, two rings populated by young massive stars suggest a
recent burst of star formation in a rather hostile environment. Here we explore
two ways of creating such young stellar rings with a gaseous accretion disk: by
self-gravity in a massive disk, and by capturing "old" low mass stars and
growing them via gas accretion in a disk. The minimum disk mass is above 10^4
Msun for the first mechanism and is few tens times larger for the second one.
The observed relatively small velocity dispersion of the stars rules out disks
more massive than around 10^5 Msun: heavier stellar or gas disks would warp
each other by orbital precession in an axisymmetric potential too strongly. The
capture of "old" stars by a disk is thus unlikely as the origin of the young
stellar disks. The absence of a massive nuclear gas disk in Sgr A* now implies
that the disk was either accreted by the SMBH, which would then imply almost a
quasar-like luminosity for Sgr A*, or was consumed in the star formation
episode. The latter possibility appears to be more likely on theoretical
grounds. We also consider whether accretion disk plane changes, expected to
occur due to fluctuations in the angular momentum of gas infalling into the
central parsec of a galaxy, would dislodge the embedded stars from the disk
midplane. We find that the stars leave the disk midplane only if the disk
orientation changes on time scales much shorter than the disk viscous time.