Imaging a star's companion at multiple epochs over a short orbital arc
provides only four of the six coordinates required for a unique orbital
solution. Probability distributions of possible solutions are commonly
generated by Monte Carlo (MCMC) analysis, but these are biased by priors and
may not probe the full parameter space. We suggest alternative methods to
characterise possible orbits, which compliment the MCMC technique. Firstly the
allowed ranges of orbital elements are prior-independent, and we provide means
to calculate these ranges without numerical analyses. Hence several interesting
constraints (including whether a companion even can be bound, its minimum
possible semi-major axis and its minimum eccentricity) may be quickly computed
using our relations as soon as orbital motion is detected. We also suggest an
alternative to posterior probability distributions as a means to present
possible orbital elements, namely contour plots of elements as functions of
line of sight coordinates. These plots are prior-independent, readily show
degeneracies between elements and allow readers to extract orbital solutions
themselves. This approach is particularly useful when there are other
constraints on the geometry, for example if a companion's orbit is assumed to
be aligned with a disc. As examples we apply our methods to several imaged
sub-stellar companions including Fomalhaut b, and for the latter object we show
how different origin hypotheses affect its possible orbital solutions. We also
examine visual companions of A- and G-type main sequence stars in the
Washington Double Star Catalogue, and show that $\gtrsim50$ per cent must be
unbound.