The recently discovered subdwarf B (sdB) pulsator KIC11558725 features a rich
g-mode frequency spectrum, with a few low-amplitude p-modes at short periods,
and is a promising target for a seismic study aiming to constrain the internal
structure of this star, and of sdB stars in general.
  We have obtained ground-based spectroscopic Balmer-line radial-velocity
measurements of KIC11558725, spanning the 2010 and 2011 observing seasons. From
these data we have discovered that KIC11558725 is a binary with period P=10.05
d, and that the radial-velocity amplitude of the sdB star is 58 km/s.
Consequently the companion of the sdB star has a minimum mass of 0.63 M\odot,
and is therefore most likely an unseen white dwarf.
  We analyse the near-continuous 2010-2011 Kepler light curve to reveal orbital
Doppler-beaming light variations at the 238 ppm level, which is consistent with
the observed spectroscopic orbital radial-velocity amplitude of the subdwarf.
We use the strongest 70 pulsation frequencies in the Kepler light curve of the
subdwarf as clocks to derive a third consistent measurement of the orbital
radial-velocity amplitude, from the orbital light-travel delay.
  We use our high signal-to-noise average spectra to study the atmospheric
parameters of the sdB star, deriving Teff = 27 910K and log g = 5.41 dex, and
find that carbon, nitrogen and oxygen are underabundant relative to the solar
mixture.
  Furthermore, we extract more than 160 significant frequencies from the Kepler
light curve. We investigate the pulsation frequencies for expected period
spacings and rotational splittings. We find period-spacing sequences of
spherical-harmonic degrees \ell=1 and \ell=2, and we associate a large fraction
of the g-modes in KIC11558725 with these sequences. From frequency splittings
we conclude that the subdwarf is rotating subsynchronously with respect to the
orbit.