Controllers are often designed based on a reduced or simplified model of the
plant dynamics. In this context, we investigate whether it is possible to
synthesize a stabilizing event-triggered feedback law for networked control
systems (NCS) which have two time-scales, based only on an approximate model of
the slow dynamics. We follow an emulation-like approach as we assume that we
know how to solve the problem in the absence of sampling and then we study how
to design the event-triggering rule under communication constraints. The NCS is
modeled as a hybrid singularly perturbed system which exhibits the feature to
generate jumps for both the fast variable and the error variable induced by the
sampling. The first conclusion is that a triggering law which guarantees the
stability and the existence of a uniform minimum amount of time between two
transmissions for the slow model may not ensure the existence of such a time
for the overall system, which makes the controller not implementable in
practice. The objective of this contribution is twofold. We first show that
existing event-triggering conditions can be adapted to singularly perturbed
systems and semiglobal practical stability can be ensured in this case. Second,
we propose another technique that combines event-triggered and time-triggered
results in the sense that transmissions are only allowed after a predefined
amount of time has elapsed since the last transmission. This technique has the
advantage, under an additional assumption, to ensure a global asymptotic
stability property and to allow the user to directly tune the minimum
inter-transmission interval. We believe that this technique is of its own
interest independently of the two-time scale nature of the addressed problem.
The results are shown to be applicable to a class of globally Lipschitz
systems.