It is well known that Shannon's rate-distortion function (RDF) in the colored
quadratic Gaussian (QG) case, can be parametrized via a single Lagrangian
variable (the "water level" in the reverse water filling solution). In this
work, we show that the symmetric colored QG multiple-description (MD) RDF in
the case of two descriptions, can be parametrized via two Lagrangian variables.
To establish this result, we use two key ideas. First, we propose a new
representation for the MD test channel, and show that the minimum mutual
information rate across this channel coincide with the QG MD RDF. Second, we
use variational calculus to obtain a spectral domain representation of the test
channel's optimal side and central distortion spectra given the source spectral
density and the side and central distortion constraints. The distortion spectra
are specified via two Lagrangian parameters, which control the trade-off
between the side distortion, the central distortion, and the coding rate.We
also show that the symmetric colored QG MD RDF can be achieved by noise-shaped
predictive coding, dithered quantization, and memoryless entropy coding. In
particular, we show that the proposed MD test channel can be materialized by
embedding two source prediction loops, one for each description, within a
common noise shaping loop whose parameters are explicitly found from the
spectral-domain characterization. The source prediction loops exploit the
source memory, and thus reduce the coding rate. The noise-shaping loop,
controls the trade-off between the side and the central distortions by shaping
the quantization noise.