The absorption of free linear chains in a polymer brush was studied with
respect to chain size $L$ and compatibility $\chi$ with the brush by means of
Monte Carlo (MC) simulations and Density Functional Theory (DFT) /
Self-Consistent Field Theory (SCFT) at both moderate, $\sigma_g = 0.25$, and
high, $\sigma_g = 1.00$, grafting densities using a bead-spring model.
Different concentrations of the free chains $0.0625 \le \phi_o \le 0.375$ are
examined. Contrary to the case of $\chi = 0$ when all species are almost
completely ejected by the polymer brush irrespective of their length $L$, for
$\chi < 0$ we find that the degree of absorption (absorbed amount) $\Gamma(L)$
undergoes a sharp crossover from weak to strong ($\approx 100%$) absorption,
discriminating between oligomers, $1\le L\le 8$, and longer chains. For a
moderately dense brush, $\sigma_g = 0.25$, the longer species, $L > 8$,
populate predominantly the deep inner part of the brush whereas in a dense
brush $\sigma_g = 1.00$ they penetrate into the "fluffy" tail of the dense
brush only. Gyration radius $R_g$ and end-to-end distance $R_e$ of absorbed
chains thereby scale with length $L$ as free polymers in the bulk. Using both
MC and DFT/SCFT methods for brushes of different chain length $32 \le N \le
256$, we demonstrate the existence of unique {\em critical} value of
compatibility $\chi = \chi^{c}<0$. For $\chi^{c}(\phi_o)$ the energy of free
chains attains the {\em same} value, irrespective of length $L$ whereas the
entropy of free chain displays a pronounced minimum. At $\chi^{c}$ all density
profiles of absorbing chains with different $L$ intersect at the same distance
from the grafting plane. The penetration/expulsion kinetics of free chains into
the polymer brush after an instantaneous change in their compatibility $\chi$
displays a rather rich behavior. We find three distinct regimes of penetration
kinetics of free chains regarding the length $L$: I ($1\le L\le 8$), II ($8 \le
L \le N$), and III ($L > N$), in which the time of absorption $\tau$ grows with
$L$ at a different rate. During the initial stages of penetration into the
brush one observes a power-law increase of $\Gamma \propto t^\alpha$ with power
$\alpha \propto -\ln \phi_o$ whereby penetration of the free chains into the
brush gets {\em slower} as their concentration rises.