Traditional searches for R-parity conserving natural supersymmetry (SUSY)
require large transverse mass and missing energy cuts to separate the signal
from large backgrounds. SUSY models with compressed spectra inherently produce
signal events with small amounts of missing energy that are hard to explore. We
use this difficulty to motivate the construction of "deconstructed" transverse
mass variables which are designed preserve information on both the norm and
direction of the missing momentum. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these
variables in searches for the pair production of supersymmetric top-quark
partners which subsequently decay into a final state with an isolated lepton,
jets and missing energy. We show that the use of deconstructed transverse mass
variables extends the accessible compressed spectra parameter space beyond the
region probed by traditional methods. The parameter space can further be
expanded to neutralino masses that are larger than the difference between the
stop and top masses. In addition, we also discuss how these variables allow for
novel searches of single stop production, in order to directly probe
unconstrained stealth stops in the small stop- and neutralino-mass regime. We
also demonstrate the utility of these variables for generic gluino and stop
searches in all-hadronic final states. Overall, we demonstrate that
deconstructed transverse variables are essential to any search wanting to
maximize signal separation from the background when the signal has undetected
particles in the final state.