The mass-loss rate of donor stars in cataclysmic variables (CVs) is of
paramount importance in the evolution of short-period CVs. Observed donors are
oversized in comparison with those of isolated single stars of the same mass,
which is thought to be a consequence of the mass loss. Using the empirical
mass-radius relation of CVs and the homologous approximation for changes in
effective temperature T_2, orbital period P, and luminosity of the donor with
the stellar radius, we find the semi-empirical mass-loss rate M2_dot of CVs as
a function of P. The derived M2_dot is at ~10^(-9.5)-10^(-10) Msun/yr and
depends weakly on P when P > 90 min, while it declines very rapidly towards the
minimum period when P < 90 min, emulating the P-T_2 relation. Due to strong
deviation from thermal equilibrium caused by the mass loss, the semi-empirical
M2_dot is significantly different from, and has a less-pronounced turnaround
behavior with P than suggested by previous numerical models. The semi-empirical
P-M2_dot relation is consistent with the angular momentum loss due to
gravitational wave emission, and strongly suggests that CV secondaries with
0.075 Msun < M_2 < 0.2 Msun are less than 2 Gyrs old. When applied to selected
eclipsing CVs, our semi-empirical mass-loss rates are in good agreement with
the accretion rates derived from the effective temperatures T_1 of white
dwarfs, suggesting that M2_dot can be used to reliably infer T_2 from T_1.
Based on the semi-empirical M2_dot, SDSS 1501 and 1433 systems that were
previously identified as post-bounce CVs have yet to reach the minimal period.