XMM-Newton successfully detected the minimum state of PG 2112+059 during a
short snapshot observation and performed a long follow-up observation. The high
signal-to-noise spectra are modelled assuming different emission scenarios and
compared with archival spectra taken by XMM-Newton and Chandra.
  The PG 2112+059 X-ray spectra acquired in May 2007 allowed the detection of a
weak iron fluorescent line, which is interpreted as being caused by reflection
from neutral material at some distance from the primary X-ray emitting source.
The X-ray spectra of PG 2112+059 taken at five different epochs during
different flux states can be interpreted within two different scenarios. The
first consists of two layers of ionised material with column densities of N_H
~5 x 10^22 cm^-2 and N_H ~3.5 x 10^23 cm^-2, respectively. The first layer is
moderately ionised and its ionisation levels follow the flux changes, while the
other layer is highly ionised and does not show any correlation with the flux
of the source. The spectra can also be interpreted assuming reflection by an
ionised accretion disk seen behind a warm absorber. The warm absorber
ionisation is consistent with being correlated with the flux of the source,
which provides an additional degree of self-consistency with the overall
reflection-based model. We explain the spectral variability with light bending
according to the models of Miniutti and Fabian and constrain the black hole
spin to be a/M > 0.86. Both scenarios also assume that a distant cold reflector
is responsible for the Fe K \alpha emission line.
  Light bending provides an attractive explanation of the different states of
PG 2112+059 and may also describe the physical cause of the observed properties
of other X-ray weak quasars.