The Sun has long been considered a constant star, to the extent that its
total irradiance was termed the solar constant. It required radiometers in
space to detect the small variations in solar irradiance on timescales of the
solar rotation and the solar cycle. A part of the difficulty is that there are
no other constant natural daytime sources to which the Sun's brightness can be
compared. The discovery of solar irradiance variability rekindled a
long-running discussion on how strongly the Sun affects our climate. A
non-negligible influence is suggested by correlation studies between solar
variability and climate indicators. The mechanism for solar irradiance
variations that fits the observations best is that magnetic features at the
solar surface, i.e. sunspots, faculae and the magnetic network, are responsible
for almost all variations (although on short timescales convection and p-mode
oscillations also contribute). In spite of significant progress important
questions are still open. Thus there is a debate on how strongly irradiance
varies on timescales of centuries (i.e. how much darker the Sun was during the
Maunder minimum than it is today). It is also not clear how the solar spectrum
changes over the solar cycle. Both these questions are of fundamental
importance for working out just how strongly the Sun influences our climate.
Another interesting question is how solar irradiance variability compares with
that of other cool dwarfs, particularly now that observations from space are
available also for stars.