A model is developed with the aim of analyzing interacting superparamagnets.
Model is built from magnetic dipolar interaction and demagnetizing mean field
concepts. A useful expression for effective demagnetizing factors is achieved,
which allows for the analysis of non uniform spatial distributions of
nanoparticles. This expression is a function of demagnetizing factors
associated with specimen and clusters shapes, and of the mean distances between
near neighbor nanoparticles and between clusters, relative to the
characteristic sizes of each of these two types of objects, respectively. It
explains effects of magnetic dipolar interactions such as the observation of
apparent nanoparticle magnetic-moments smaller than real ones. It is shown that
by performing a minimum set of experimental determinations, model application
allows retrieval of intrinsic properties, like magnetic moment and
susceptibility in the absence of interactions. It also permits the estimation
of mean interparticle and intercluster relative distances, and of demagnetizing
factors associated with clusters shape. An expression for magnetic dipolar
energy per nanoparticle is also derived. Model experimental test was performed
by analysis of results reported in the literature and of original results. They
correspond to magnetite particles dispersed in PEGDA-600 polymer, and in PVA
ferrogels. Experimental results display different magnetic response when prism
shaped specimens are measured along principal directions. Intrinsic properties
and structural information were retrieved from the analysis, in excellent
agreement with information obtained from FESEM images. In the studied samples
nanoparticles were found to be in close contact to each other within almost
randomly oriented clusters. Intercluster mean relative-distance was found to
vary between 2.2 and 7.5, depending on particles volume fraction.