The most passive galaxies at high redshift are unlikely to be identified by
either narrow-band emission-line searches, or by Lyman limit searches (both
techniques which have been highlighted at this meeting) simply because such
selection methods rely on the presence of a strong ultraviolet component.
Selection on the basis of extreme radio power has also proved to yield
optically active objects with the majority of high-redshift objects studied to
date displaying complex elongated optical/UV morphologies, relatively blue
optical-ultraviolet continuum colours, and strong emission lines. These
features, coupled with the failure to detect any spectral signatures of old
stars at $z > 1$, has led to the suggestion that these galaxies are being
observed close to or even during a general epoch of formation. However, we have
recently demonstrated that radio selection at significantly fainter (mJy) flux
densities can be used to identify apparently passively evolving elliptical
galaxies at high redshift. Deep Keck spectra have now been obtained for two
such objects yielding absorption line redshifts $z \simeq 1.5$; 53W091 at $z =
1.552$ (Dunlop et al. 1996) and most recently 53W069 at $z = 1.432$. The
ultraviolet SEDs of these galaxies indicate minimum ages $> 3$ Gyr while, as
stressed in this article, the strength of the reddenning-independent
ultraviolet spectral breaks actually indicate a greater minimum age of 5 Gyr
for both objects assuming solar metallicity. Since the spectra comprise the
integrated light of each galaxy to radii greater than $r_e$, I argue that it is
difficult to justify the adoption of significantly super-solar metallicity in
interpreting these data. It thus seems hard to escape the conclusion that
$\Omega_0 < 1$ and that, irrespective of the adopted cosmology, at least some
massive ellipitical galaxies were formed at high redshift ($z> 5$).