Convexity properties of error rates of a class of decoders, including the
ML/min-distance one as a special case, are studied for arbitrary
constellations, bit mapping and coding. Earlier results obtained for the AWGN
channel are extended to a wide class of noise densities, including unimodal and
spherically-invariant noise. Under these broad conditions, symbol and bit error
rates are shown to be convex functions of the SNR in the high-SNR regime with
an explicitly-determined threshold, which depends only on the constellation
dimensionality and minimum distance, thus enabling an application of the
powerful tools of convex optimization to such digital communication systems in
a rigorous way. It is the decreasing nature of the noise power density around
the decision region boundaries that insures the convexity of symbol error rates
in the general case. The known high/low SNR bounds of the convexity/concavity
regions are tightened and no further improvement is shown to be possible in
general. The high SNR bound fits closely into the channel coding theorem: all
codes, including capacity-achieving ones, whose decision regions include the
hardened noise spheres (from the noise sphere hardening argument in the channel
coding theorem) satisfies this high SNR requirement and thus has convex error
rates in both SNR and noise power. We conjecture that all capacity-achieving
codes have convex error rates. Convexity properties in signal amplitude and
noise power are also investigated. Some applications of the results are
discussed. In particular, it is shown that fading is convexity-preserving and
is never good in low dimensions under spherically-invariant noise, which may
also include any linear diversity combining.