We study the phenomenon of grain-boundary premelting for temperatures below
the melting point in the phase-field crystal model of a pure material with
hexagonal ordering in two dimensions. We investigate the structures of
symmetric tilt boundaries as a function of misorientation for two different
inclinations and compute in the grand canonical ensemble the disjoining
potential V(w) that governs the fundamental interaction between crystal-melt
interfaces as a function of the premelted layer width w. The results reveal
qualitatively different behaviors for high-angle grain boundaries that are
uniformly wetted, with w diverging logarithmically as the melting point is
approached from below, and low-angle boundaries that are punctuated by liquid
pools surrounding dislocations, separated by solid bridges. This qualitative
difference between high and low angle boundaries is reflected in the
w-dependence of the disjoining potential that is purely repulsive (V'(w)<0 for
all w) above a critical misorientation, but switches from repulsive at small w
to attractive at large w for low angles. In the latter case, V(w) has a minimum
that corresponds to a premelted boundary of finite width at the melting point.
Furthermore, we find that the standard wetting condition (the grain boundary
energy is equal to twice the solid-liquid free energy) gives a much too low
estimate of the critical misorientation when a low-temperature value of the
grain boundary energy is used. In contrast, a reasonable estimate is obtained
if the grain boundary energy is extrapolated to the melting point, taking into
account both the elastic softening of the material at high temperature and
local melting around dislocations.