We announce the discovery of a low-mass planet orbiting the super metal-rich
K0V star HD77338 as part of our on-going Calan-Hertfordshire Extrasolar Planet
Search. The best fit planet solution has an orbital period of 5.7361\pm0.0015
days and with a radial velocity semi-amplitude of only 5.96\pm1.74 m/s, we find
a minimum mass of 15.9+4.7-5.3 Me. The best fit eccentricity from this solution
is 0.09+0.25-0.09, and we find agreement for this data set using a Bayesian
analysis and a periodogram analysis. We measure a metallicity for the star of
+0.35\pm0.06 dex, whereas another recent work (Trevisan et al. 2011) finds
+0.47\pm0.05 dex. Thus HD77338b is one of the most metal-rich planet host stars
known and the most metal-rich star hosting a sub-Neptune mass planet. We
searched for a transit signature of HD77338b but none was detected. We also
highlight an emerging trend where metallicity and mass seem to correlate at
very low masses, a discovery that would be in agreement with the core accretion
model of planet formation. The trend appears to show that for Neptune-mass
planets and below, higher masses are preferred when the host star is more
metal-rich. Also a lower boundary is apparent in the super metal-rich regime
where there are no very low-mass planets yet discovered in comparison to the
sub-solar metallicity regime. A Monte Carlo analysis shows that this, low-mass
planet desert, is statistically significant with the current sample of 36
planets at around the 4.5\sigma\ level. In addition, results from Kepler
strengthen the claim for this paucity of the lowest-mass planets in super
metal-rich systems. Finally, this discovery adds to the growing population of
low-mass planets around low-mass and metal-rich stars and shows that very
low-mass planets can now be discovered with a relatively small number of data
points using stable instrumentation.