Recent studies of the heliospheric magnetic field (HMF) have detected
interesting, systematic hemispherical and longitudinal asymmetries which have a
profound significance for the understanding of solar magnetic fields. The in
situ HMF measurements since 1960s show that the heliospheric current sheet
(HCS) is systematically shifted (coned) southward during solar minimum times,
leading to the concept of a bashful ballerina. While temporary shifts can be
considerably larger, the average HCS shift (coning) angle is a few degrees,
less than the $7.2^{\circ}$ tilt of the solar rotation axis. Recent solar
observations during the last two solar cycles verify these results and show
that the magnetic areas in the northern solar hemisphere are larger and their
intensity weaker than in the south during long intervals in the late declining
to minimum phase. The multipole expansion reveals a strong quadrupole term
which is oppositely directed to the dipole term. These results imply that the
Sun has a symmetric quadrupole S0 dynamo mode that oscillates in phase with the
dominant dipole A0 mode. Moreover, the heliospheric magnetic field has a strong
tendency to produce solar tilts that are roughly opposite in longitudinal
phase. This implies is a systematic longitudinal asymmetry and leads to a
"flip-flop" type behaviour in the dominant HMF sector whose period is about 3.2
years. This agrees very well with the similar flip-flop period found recently
in sunspots, as well as with the observed ratio of three between the activity
cycle period and the flip-flop period of sun-like stars. Accordingly, these
results require that the solar dynamo includes three modes, A0, S0 and a
non-axisymmetric mode. Obviously, these results have a great impact on solar
modelling.