Recent numerical studies of the gluon propagator in the minimal Landau and
Coulomb gauges in space-time dimension 2, 3, and 4 pose a challenge to the
Gribov confinement scenario.
  We prove, without approximation, that for these gauges, the continuum gluon
propagator $D(k)$ in SU(N) gauge theory satisfies the bound ${d-1 \over d} {1
\over (2 \pi)^d} \int d^dk {D(k) \over k^2} \leq N$. This holds for Landau
gauge, in which case $d$ is the dimension of space-time, and for Coulomb gauge,
in which case $d$ is the dimension of ordinary space and $D(k)$ is the
instantaneous spatial gluon propagator. This bound implies that $\lim_{k \to
0}k^{d-2} D(k) = 0$, where $D(k)$ is the gluon propagator at momentum $k$, and
consequently $D(0) = 0$ in Landau gauge in space-time $d = 2$, and in Coulomb
gauge in space dimension $d = 2$, but D(0) may be finite in higher dimension.
These results are compatible with numerical studies of the Landau-and
Coulomb-gauge propagator.
  In 4-dimensional space-time a regularization is required, and we also prove
an analogous bound on the lattice gluon propagator, ${1 \over d (2 \pi)^d}
\int_{- \pi}^{\pi} d^dk {\sum_\mu \cos^2(k_\mu/2) D_{\mu \mu}(k) \over 4
\sum_\lambda \sin^2(k_\lambda/2)} \leq N$. Here we have taken the
infinite-volume limit of lattice gauge theory at fixed lattice spacing, and the
lattice momentum componant $k_\mu$ is a continuous angle $- \pi \leq k_\mu \leq
\pi$. Unexpectedly, this implies a bound on the {\it high-momentum} behavior of
the continuum propagator in minimum Landau and Coulomb gauge in 4 space-time
dimensions which, moreover, is compatible with the perturbative renormalization
group when the theory is asymptotically free.