Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has recently emerged as a powerful tool
for obtaining three-dimensional (3D) structures of biological macromolecules in
native states. A minimum cryo-EM image data set for deriving a meaningful
reconstruction is comprised of thousands of randomly orientated projections of
identical particles photographed with a small number of electrons. The
computation of 3D structure from 2D projections requires clustering, which aims
to enhance the signal to noise ratio in each view by grouping similarly
oriented images. Nevertheless, the prevailing clustering techniques are often
compromised by three characteristics of cryo-EM data: high noise content, high
dimensionality and large number of clusters. Moreover, since clustering
requires registering images of similar orientation into the same pixel
coordinates by 2D alignment, it is desired that the clustering algorithm can
label misaligned images as outliers. Herein, we introduce a clustering
algorithm $\gamma$-SUP to model the data with a $q$-Gaussian mixture and adopt
the minimum $\gamma$-divergence for estimation, and then use a self-updating
procedure to obtain the numerical solution. We apply $\gamma$-SUP to the
cryo-EM images of two benchmark macromolecules, RNA polymerase II and ribosome.
In the former case, simulated images were chosen to decouple clustering from
alignment to demonstrate $\gamma$-SUP is more robust to misalignment outliers
than the existing clustering methods used in the cryo-EM community. In the
latter case, the clustering of real cryo-EM data by our $\gamma$-SUP method
eliminates noise in many views to reveal true structure features of ribosome at
the projection level.