We present deep, continuum images of eleven high-redshift (0.811 < z < 1.875)
3CR radio galaxies observed with NICMOS. Our images probe the rest-frame
optical light where stars are expected to dominate the galaxy luminosity. The
rest-frame UV light of eight of these galaxies demonstrates the well-known
``alignment effect''. Most of the radio galaxies have rounder, more symmetric
morphologies at rest-frame optical wavelengths. Here we show the most direct
evidence that in most cases the stellar hosts are normal elliptical galaxies
with de Vaucouleurs law light profiles. For a few galaxies very faint traces of
the UV-bright aligned component are also visible in the infrared images. We
derive both the effective radius and surface-brightness for nine of eleven
sample galaxies by fitting surface-brightness models to them. We find their
sizes are similar to those of local FRII radio source hosts and are in general
larger than other local galaxies. The derived host galaxy luminosities are very
high and lie at the bright end of luminosity functions constructed at similar
redshifts. The galaxies in our sample are also brighter than the rest-frame
size--surface-brightness locus defined by the low-redshift sources. Passive
evolution roughly aligns the z ~ 1 galaxies with the low-redshift samples. The
optical host is sometimes centered on a local minimum in the rest-frame UV
emission, suggesting the presence of substantial dust obscuration. We also see
good evidence of nuclear point sources in three galaxies. Overall, our results
are consistent with the hypothesis that these galaxies have already formed the
bulk of their stars at redshifts greater than z >~ 2, and that the AGN
phenomenon takes place within otherwise normal, perhaps passively evolving,
galaxies. (abridged)