CONTEXT - Low-mass stars form with disks in which the coagulation of grains
may eventually lead to the formation of planets. It is not known when and where
grain growth occurs, as models that explain the observations are often
degenerate. A way to break this degeneracy is to resolve the sources under
study. AIMS - To find evidence for the existence of grains of millimetre sizes
in disks around in T Tauri stars, implying grain growth. METHODS - The
Australia Telescope Compact Array (ATCA) was used to observe 15 southern T
Tauri stars, five in the constellation Lupus and ten in Chamaeleon, at 3.3
millimetre. The five Lupus sources were also observed with the Submillimeter
Array (SMA) at 1.4 millimetre. Our new data are complemented with data from the
literature to determine the slopes of the spectral energy distributions in the
millimetre regime. RESULTS - Ten sources were detected at better than 3sigma
with the ATCA, with sigma ~1-2 mJy, and all sources that were observed with the
SMA were detected at better than 15sigma, with sigma ~4 mJy. Six of the sources
in our sample are resolved to physical radii of ~100 AU. Assuming that the
emission from such large disks is predominantly optically thin, the millimetre
slope can be related directly to the opacity index. For the other sources, the
opacity indices are lower limits. Four out of six resolved sources have opacity
indices <~1, indicating grain growth to millimetre sizes and larger. The masses
of the disks range from < 0.01 to 0.08 MSun, which is comparable to the minimum
mass solar nebula. A tentative correlation is found between the millimetre
slope and the strength and shape of the 10-micron silicate feature, indicating
that grain growth occurs on similar (short) timescales in both the inner and
outer disk.