Gravitational microlensing at cosmological distances is potentially a
powerful tool for probing the mass functions of stars and compact objects in
other galaxies. In the case of multiply-imaged quasars, microlensing data has
been used to determine the average microlens mass. However the measurements
have relied on an assumed transverse velocity for the lensing galaxy. Since the
measured mass scales with the square of the transverse velocity, published mass
limits are quite uncertain. In the case of Q2237+0305 we have properly
constrained this uncertainty. The distribution of light curve derivatives
allows quantitative treatment of the relative rates of microlensing due to
proper motions of microlenses, the orbital stream motion of microlenses and the
bulk galactic transverse velocity. By demanding that the microlensing rate due
to the motions of microlenses is the minimum that should be observed we
determine lower limits for the average mass of stars and compact objects in the
bulge of Q2237+0305. If microlenses are assumed to move in an orbital stream
the lower limit ranges between 0.005 and 0.023 solar masses where the the
systematic dependence is due to the fraction of smooth matter and the size of
photometric error assumed for published monitoring data. However, if the
microlenses are assumed to move according to an isotropic velocity dispersion
then a larger lower limit of 0.019-0.11 solar masses is obtained. A significant
contribution of Jupiter mass compact objects to the mass distribution of the
galactic bulge of Q2237+0305 is therefore unambiguously ruled out.