Zeta-function regularization is applied to evaluate the one-loop effective
potential for SO(10) grand-unified theories in de Sitter cosmologies. When the
Higgs scalar field belongs to the 210-dimensional irreducible representation of
SO(10), attention is focused on the mass matrix relevant for the
SU(3)xSU(2)xU(1) symmetry-breaking direction, to agree with low-energy
phenomenology of the particle-physics standard model. The analysis is
restricted to those values of the tree-level-potential parameters for which the
absolute minima of the classical potential have been evaluated. As shown in the
recent literature, such minima turn out to be SO(6)xSO(4)- or
SU(3)xSU(2)xSU(2)xU(1)-invariant. Electroweak phenomenology is more naturally
derived, however, from the former minima. Hence the values of the parameters
leading to the alternative set of minima have been discarded. Within this
framework, flat-space limit and general form of the one-loop effective
potential are studied in detail by using analytic and numerical methods. It
turns out that, as far as the absolute-minimum direction is concerned, the
flat-space limit of the one-loop calculation about a de Sitter background does
not change the results previously obtained in the literature, where the
tree-level potential in flat space-time was studied. Moreover, when curvature
effects are no longer negligible in the one-loop potential, it is found that
the early universe remains bound to reach only the SO(6)xSO(4) absolute
minimum.