We report the discovery of the first hot Jupiter in the Hyades open cluster.
HD 285507b orbits a V=10.47 K4.5V dwarf ($M_* = 0.734 M_\odot$; $R_* = 0.656
R_\odot$) in a slightly eccentric ($e = 0.086^{+0.018}_{-0.019}$) orbit with a
period of $6.0881^{+0.0019}_{-0.0018}$ days. The induced stellar radial
velocity corresponds to a minimum companion mass of $M_{\rm p} \sin{i} = 0.917
\pm 0.033 M_{\rm Jup}$. Line bisector spans and stellar activity measures show
no correlation with orbital phase, and the radial velocity amplitude is
independent of wavelength, supporting the conclusion that the variations are
caused by a planetary companion. Follow-up photometry indicates with high
confidence that the planet does not transit. HD 285507b joins a small but
growing list of planets in open clusters, and its existence lends support to a
planet formation scenario in which a high stellar space density does not
inhibit giant planet formation and migration. We calculate the circularization
timescale for HD 285507b to be larger than the age of the Hyades, which may
indicate that this planet's non-zero eccentricity is the result of migration
via interactions with a third body. We also demonstrate a significant
difference between the eccentricity distributions of hot Jupiters that have had
time to tidally circularize and those that have not, which we interpret as
evidence against Type II migration in the final stages of hot Jupiter
formation. Finally, the dependence of the circularization timescale on the
planetary tidal quality factor, $Q_{\rm p}$, allows us to constrain the average
value for hot Jupiters to be $\log{Q_{\rm p}} = 6.14^{+0.41}_{-0.25}$.