Here we present a range-limited approach to centrality measures in both
non-weighted and weighted directed complex networks. We introduce an efficient
method that generates for every node and every edge its betweenness centrality
based on shortest paths of lengths not longer than $\ell = 1,...,L$ in case of
non-weighted networks, and for weighted networks the corresponding quantities
based on minimum weight paths with path weights not larger than $w_{\ell}=\ell
\Delta$, $\ell=1,2...,L=R/\Delta$. These measures provide a systematic
description on the positioning importance of a node (edge) with respect to its
network neighborhoods 1-step out, 2-steps out, etc. up to including the whole
network. We show that range-limited centralities obey universal scaling laws
for large non-weighted networks. As the computation of traditional centrality
measures is costly, this scaling behavior can be exploited to efficiently
estimate centralities of nodes and edges for all ranges, including the
traditional ones. The scaling behavior can also be exploited to show that the
ranking top-list of nodes (edges) based on their range-limited centralities
quickly freezes as function of the range, and hence the diameter-range top-list
can be efficiently predicted. We also show how to estimate the typical largest
node-to-node distance for a network of $N$ nodes, exploiting the aforementioned
scaling behavior. These observations are illustrated on model networks and on a
large social network inferred from cell-phone trace logs ($\sim 5.5\times 10^6$
nodes and $\sim 2.7\times 10^7$ edges). Finally, we apply these concepts to
efficiently detect the vulnerability backbone of a network (defined as the
smallest percolating cluster of the highest betweenness nodes and edges) and
illustrate the importance of weight-based centrality measures in weighted
networks in detecting such backbones.