Personal cooling technologies locally control the temperature of an
individual rather than a large space, thus providing personal thermal comfort
while supplementing cooling loads in thermally regulated environments. This can
lead to significant energy and cost savings. In this study, a new approach to
personal cooling was developed using an infrared-transparent visible-opaque
fabric (ITVOF), which provides passive cooling via the transmission of thermal
radiation emitted by the human body directly to the environment. Here, we
present a conceptual framework to thermally and optically design an ITVOF.
Using a heat transfer model, the fabric was found to require a minimum infrared
(IR) transmittance of 0.644 and a maximum IR reflectance of 0.2 to ensure
thermal comfort at ambient temperatures as high as 26.1oC (79oF). To meet these
requirements, an ITVOF design was developed using synthetic polymer fibers with
an intrinsically low IR absorptance. These fibers were then structured to
minimize IR reflection via weak Rayleigh scattering while maintaining visible
opaqueness via strong Mie scattering. For a fabric composed of parallel-aligned
polyethylene fibers, numerical finite element simulations predict 1 {\mu}m
diameter fibers bundled into 30 {\mu}m yarns can achieve a total hemispherical
IR transmittance of 0.972, which is nearly perfectly transparent to mid- and
far-IR radiation. The visible wavelength properties of the ITVOF are comparable
to conventional textiles ensuring opaqueness to the human eye. By providing
personal cooling in a form amenable to everyday use, ITVOF-based clothing
offers a simple, low-cost solution to reduce energy consumption in HVAC
systems.