The characteristic novelty of what is generally meant by a "physical
unclonable function" (PUF) is precisely defined, in order to supply a firm
basis for security evaluations and the proposal of new security mechanisms. A
PUF is defined as a hardware device which implements a physical function with
an output value that changes with its argument. A PUF can be clonable, but a
secure PUF must be unclonable. This proposed meaning of a PUF is cleanly
delineated from the closely related concepts of "conventional unclonable
function", "physically obfuscated key", "random-number generator", "controlled
PUF" and "strong PUF". The structure of a systematic security evaluation of a
PUF enabled by the proposed formal definition is outlined. Practically all
current and novel physical (but not conventional) unclonable physical functions
are PUFs by our definition. Thereby the proposed definition captures the
existing intuition about what is a PUF and remains flexible enough to encompass
further research. In a second part we quantitatively characterize two classes
of PUF security mechanisms, the standard one, based on a minimum secret
read-out time, and a novel one, based on challenge-dependent erasure of stored
information. The new mechanism is shown to allow in principle the construction
of a "quantum-PUF", that is absolutely secure while not requiring the storage
of an exponentially large secret. The construction of a PUF that is
mathematically and physically unclonable in principle does not contradict the
laws of physics.