Starting from the assumption that radio jets and accretion disks are
symbiotic features present in radio loud and radio quiet quasars we scale the
bulk power of radio jets with the accretion power by adding mass- and energy
conservation of the whole jet-disk system to the standard Blandford \& K\"onigl
theory for compact radio cores. The model depends on only few parameters and
can be constrained by observations. Thus we are able to show that radio and
X-ray fluxes (SSC emission) of cores and lobes and typical dimensions of radio
loud quasars are consistent with a jet being produced in the central engine. We
present a synthetic broadband spectrum from radio to X-ray for a jet-disk
system. The only way to explain the high efficiency of radio loud objects is to
postulate that these objects consist of `maximal jets' with `total
equipartition' where the magnetic energy flow of the jet is comparable to the
kinetic jet power and the total jet power is a large fraction of the disk
power. As the number of electrons is limited by the accretion flow, this is
only possible when the minimum Lorentz factor of the electron distribution is
$\gamma_{\rm e,min}\ga100$ ($E\ga 50 {\rm MeV}$) or/and a large number of pairs
are present. Such an electron/positron population would be a necessary
consequence of hadronic interactions and may lead to some interesting effects
in the low frequency self-absorbed spectrum. Emission from radio weak quasars
can be explained with an initially identical jet. The difference between radio
loud and radio weak could be due to a different efficiency in accelerating
relativistic electrons on the sub-parsec scale. Finally we demonstrate that in
order to appease the ravenous hunger of radio loud jets its production must be
somehow linked to the dissipation process in the inner part of the disk.