Measurements from the Mount Wilson Observatory (MWO) are used to study the
long-term variations of sunspot field strengths from 1920 to 1958. Following a
modified approach similar to that in Pevtsov et al. (2011), for each observing
week we select a single sunspot with the strongest field strength measured that
week and then compute monthly averages of these weekly maximum field strengths.
The data show the solar cycle variation of the peak field strengths with an
amplitude of about 500-700 gauss (G), but no statistically significant
long-term trends. Next, we use the sunspot observations from the Royal
Greenwich Observatory (RGO) to establish a relationship between the sunspot
areas and the sunspot field strengths for Cycles 15-19. This relationship is
then used to create a proxy of peak magnetic field strength based on sunspot
areas from the RGO and the USAF/NOAA network for the period from 1874 to early
2012. Over this interval, the magnetic field proxy shows a clear solar cycle
variation with an amplitude of 500-700 G and a weaker long-term trend. From
1874 to around 1920, the mean value of magnetic field proxy increases by about
300-350 G, and, following a broad maximum in 1920-1960, it decreases by about
300 G. Using the proxy for the magnetic field strength as the reference, we
scale the MWO field measurements to the measurements of the magnetic fields in
Pevtsov et al. (2011) to construct a combined data set of maximum sunspot field
strengths extending from 1920 to early 2012. This combined data set shows
strong solar cycle variations and no significant long-term trend (linear fit to
the data yields a slope of $-0.2\pm$0.8 G year$^{-1}$). On the other hand, the
peak sunspot field strengths observed at the minimum of the solar cycle show a
gradual decline over the last three minima (corresponding to cycles 21-23) with
a mean downward trend of $\approx$ 15 G year$^{-1}$.