We study the flow behind an array of equally spaced parallel cylinders. A
system of Stuart-Landau equations with complex parameters is used to model the
oscillating wakes. Our purpose is to identify the 6 scalar parameters which
most accurately reproduce the experimental data of Chauve and Le Gal [{Physica
D {\bf 58}}, pp 407--413, (1992)]. To do so, we perform a computational search
for the minimum of a distance $\calj$. We define $\calj$ as the sum-square
difference of the data and amplitudes reconstructed using coupled equations.
The search algorithm is made more efficient through the use of a partially
analytical expression for the gradient $\nabla \cal J$. Indeed $\nabla \cal J$
can be obtained by the integration of a dynamical system propagating backwards
in time (a backpropagation equation for the Lagrange multipliers). Using the
parameters computed via the backpropagation method, the coupled Stuart-Landau
equations accurately predicted the experimental data from Chauve and Le Gal
over a correlation time of the system. Our method turns out to be quite robust
as evidenced by using noisy synthetic data obtained from integrations of the
coupled Stuart-Landau equations. However, a difficulty remains with
experimental data: in that case the several sets of identified parameters are
shown to yield equivalent predictions. This is due to a strong discretization
or ``round-off" error arising from the digitalization of the video images in
the experiment. This ambiguity in parameter identification has been reproduced
with synthetic data subjected to the same kind of discretization.