Thin films of La5/8-yPryCa3/8MnO3 (y~0.4) have been grown on single crystal
SrTiO3 (001) by RF sputtering. The structural and surface characterizations
confirm the epitaxial nature of these film. However, the difference between the
rocking curve of the (002) and (110) peaks and the presence of pits/holes in
the step-terrace type surface morphology suggests high density of defect in
these films. Pronounced hysteresis between the field cool cooled (FCC) and
field cooled warming (FCW) magnetization measurements suggest towards the
non-ergodic magnetic state. The origin of this nonergodicity could be traced to
the magnetic liquid like state arising from the delicacy of the coexisting
magnetic phases, viz., ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic-charge ordered
(FM/AFM-CO). The large difference between the insulator metal transitions
during cooling and warming cycles (TIMC~64 K and TIMW~123 K) could be regarded
as a manifestation of the nonergodicity leading to supercooling of the magnetic
liquid while cooling. The nonergodicity and supercooling are weakened by the
AFM-FM phase transition induced by an external magnetic field. TIM and small
polaron activation energy corresponding the magnetic liquid state (cooling
cycle) vary nonlinearly with the applied magnetic field but become linear in
the crystalline solid state (warming cycle). The analysis of the low
temperature resistivity data shows that electron-phonon interaction is
drastically reduced by the applied magnetic field. The resistivity minimum in
the lower temperature region of the self-field warming curve has been explained
in terms of the Kondo like scattering in the magnetically inhomogeneous regime.