The initial mass function (IMF) of metal-free stars that form in the initial
starburst of massive (virial temperatures >10^4K) metal-free protogalaxies is
studied. In particular, we focus on the effect of H2 photodissociation by
pre-existing stars on the fragmentation mass scale, presumedly determined by
the Jeans mass at the end of the initial free-fall phase, i.e., at the
so-called ``loitering phase,'' characterized by the local temperature minimum.
Photodissociation diminishes the Jeans mass at the loitering phase, thereby
reducing the fragmentation mass scale of primordial clouds. Thus, in a given
cloud, far ultraviolet (FUV) radiation from the first star, which is supposedly
very massive (about 10^3Msun), reduces the mass scale for subsequent
fragmentation. Through a series of similar processes the IMF for metal-free
stars is established. If FUV radiation exceeds a threshold level, the
star-forming clumps collapse solely through atomic cooling. Correspondingly,
the fragmentation scale drops discontinuously from a few time 10Msun to
sub-solar scales. In compact clouds (>1.6kpc for clouds of gas mass 10^8Msun),
this level of radiation field is attained, and sub-solar mass stars are formed
even in a metal-free environment. Consequently, the IMF becomes bi-modal, with
peaks at a few tenths of Msun and a few times 10Msun. The high-mass portion of
the IMF is found to be a very steep function of the stellar mass, xi_high(m)
being proportinal to m^{-5}. Therefore, the typical mass scale of metal-free
stars is significantly smaller than that of the very first stars. Also we study
the thermal instability in collapsing primordial prestellar clumps, and discuss
why the thermal instability occuring during the three-body H2 formation does
not appear to manifest itself in causing further fragmentation of such clumps.