It is important to extract reaction coordinates or order parameters from
protein simulations in order to investigate the local-minimum-energy states and
the transition between them. The most popular method is principal component
analysis, which extracts modes with large conformational fluctuation around an
average structure. For protein systems, we recently have applied relaxation
mode analysis, which investigate dynamics properties of structural fluctuations
of proteins and extract slow relaxation modes. In this article, we apply
relaxation mode analysis to extract reaction coordinates for the system, in
which there are large conformational changes such as folding/unfolding
simulation. We have performed a 750 ns simulation of chignolin at a transition
temperature and observed many transitions between the most stable, misfolded
and unfolded states. Here, we apply principal component analysis and relaxation
mode analysis to the system. In relaxation mode analysis, we extract good
reaction coordinates automatically. The free energy surfaces give us more clear
understanding of the transitions not also between local-minimum-energy states
but also folded and unfolded states even though the simulation has large
conformational changes. Moreover, we propose an analysis method, which is
called Markov state relaxation mode analysis. We apply the method to states
with slow relaxation, which is defined by the free energy surface obtained by
relaxation mode analysis. We discuss the relaxation times of the states
obtained by a simple Markov state model and Markov state relaxation mode
analysis