Approximating a general formula from above and below by Horn formulas (its
Horn envelope and Horn core, respectively) was proposed by Selman and Kautz
(1991, 1996) as a form of ``knowledge compilation,'' supporting rapid
approximate reasoning; on the negative side, this scheme is static in that it
supports no updates, and has certain complexity drawbacks pointed out by
Kavvadias, Papadimitriou and Sideri (1993). On the other hand, the many
frameworks and schemes proposed in the literature for theory update and
revision are plagued by serious complexity-theoretic impediments, even in the
Horn case, as was pointed out by Eiter and Gottlob (1992), and is further
demonstrated in the present paper. More fundamentally, these schemes are not
inductive, in that they may lose in a single update any positive properties of
the represented sets of formulas (small size, Horn structure, etc.). In this
paper we propose a new scheme, incremental recompilation, which combines Horn
approximation and model-based updates; this scheme is inductive and very
efficient, free of the problems facing its constituents. A set of formulas is
represented by an upper and lower Horn approximation. To update, we replace the
upper Horn formula by the Horn envelope of its minimum-change update, and
similarly the lower one by the Horn core of its update; the key fact which
enables this scheme is that Horn envelopes and cores are easy to compute when
the underlying formula is the result of a minimum-change update of a Horn
formula by a clause. We conjecture that efficient algorithms are possible for
more complex updates.