We have spectroscopically confirmed a brown dwarf mass companion to the
hydrogen atmosphere white dwarf NLTT5306. The white dwarf's atmospheric
parameters were measured using Sloan Digital Sky Survey and X-Shooter
spectroscopy as T_eff=7756+/-35K and log(g)=7.68+/-0.08, giving a mass for the
primary of M_WD=0.44+/-0.04 M_sun, at a distance of 71+/-4 pc with a cooling
age of 710+/-50 Myr. The existence of the brown dwarf secondary was confirmed
through the near-infrared arm of the X-Shooter data and a spectral type of
dL4-dL7 was estimated using standard spectral indices. Combined radial velocity
measurements from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, X-Shooter and the Hobby-Eberly
Telescope's High Resolution Spectrograph of the white dwarf gives a minimum
mass of 56+/-3 M_jup for the secondary, confirming the substellar nature. The
period of the binary was measured as 101.88+/-0.02 mins using both the radial
velocity data and i'-band variability detected with the INT. This variability
indicates 'day' side heating of the brown dwarf companion. We also observe
H{\alpha} emission in our higher resolution data in phase with the white dwarf
radial velocity, indicating this system is in a low level of accretion, most
likely via a stellar wind. This system represents the shortest period white
dwarf + brown dwarf binary and the secondary has survived a stage of common
envelope evolution, much like its longer period counterpart, WD0137-349. Both
systems likely represent bona-fide progenitors of cataclysmic variables with a
low mass white dwarf and a brown dwarf donor.