Using a sample of BzK-selected galaxies at z~2 identified from the
CFHT/WIRCAM near-infrared survey of GOODS-North, we discuss the relation
between star formation rate (SFR), specific star formation rate (SSFR), and
stellar mass (M_{*}), and the clustering of galaxies as a function of these
parameters. For star-forming galaxies (sBzKs), the UV-based SFR, corrected for
extinction, scales with the stellar mass as SFR ~ M_{*}^{alpha} with alpha =
0.74+/-0.20 down to M_{*} ~ 10^{9} M_{solar}, indicating a weak dependence on
the stellar mass of the SSFR. We also measure the angular correlation function
and hence infer the correlation length for sBzK galaxies as a function of
M_{*}, SFR, and SSFR, as well as K-band apparent magnitude. We show that
passive galaxies (pBzKs) are more strongly clustered than sBzK galaxies at a
given stellar mass, mirroring the color-density relation seen at lower
redshifts. We also find that the correlation length of sBzK galaxies ranges
from 4 to 20 h^{-1}Mpc, being a strong function of M_{K}, M_{*}, and SFR. On
the other hand, the clustering dependence on SSFR changes abruptly at 2x10^{-9}
yr^{-1}, which is the typical value for "main sequence" star-forming galaxies
at z~2. We show that the correlation length reaches a minimum at this
characteristic value, and is larger for galaxies with both smaller and larger
SSFRs; a dichotomy that is only marginally implied from the predictions of the
semi-analytical models. Our results suggest that there are two types of
environmental effects at work at z~2. Stronger clustering for relatively
quiescent galaxies implies that the environment has started to play a role in
quenching star formation. At the same time, stronger clustering for galaxies
with elevated SSFRs ("starbursts") might be attributed to an increased
efficiency for galaxy interactions and mergers in dense environments.