We report detections of new exoplanets from a radial velocity (RV) survey of
metal-rich FGK stars by using three telescopes. By optimizing our RV analysis
method to long time-baseline observations, we have succeeded in detecting five
new Jovian-planets around three metal-rich stars HD 1605, HD 1666, and HD 67087
with the masses of $1.3 M_{\odot}$, $1.5 M_{\odot}$, and $1.4 M_{\odot}$,
respectively. A K1 subgiant star HD 1605 hosts two planetary companions with
the minimum masses of $ M_p \sin i = 0.96 M_{\mathrm{JUP}}$ and $3.5
M_{\mathrm{JUP}}$ in circular orbits with the planets' periods $P = 577.9$ days
and $2111$ days, respectively. HD 1605 shows a significant linear trend in RVs.
Such a system consisting of Jovian planets in circular orbits has rarely been
found and thus HD 1605 should be an important example of a multi-planetary
system that is likely unperturbed by planet-planet interactions. HD 1666 is a
F7 main sequence star which hosts an eccentric and massive planet of $ M_p \sin
i = 6.4 M_{\mathrm{JUP}}$ in the orbit with $a_{\rm p} = 0.94$ AU and an
eccentricity $e=0.63$. Such an eccentric and massive planet can be explained as
a result of planet-planet interactions among Jovian planets. While we have
found the large residuals of $\mathrm{rms} = 35.6\ \mathrm{m\ s^{-1}}$, the
periodogram analysis does not support any additional periodicities. Finally, HD
67087 hosts two planets of $ M_p \sin i = 3.1 M_{\mathrm{JUP}}$ and $4.9
M_{\mathrm{JUP}}$ in orbits with $P=352.2$ days and $2374$ days, and $e=0.17$
and $0.76$, respectively. Although the current RVs do not lead to accurate
determinations of its orbit and mass, HD 67087 c can be one of the most
eccentric planets ever discovered in multiple systems.