PKS B2152-699 has radio power characteristic of sources that dominate radio
feedback. We present new deep ATCA, Chandra and optical observations, and test
the feedback model. We report the first high-resolution observations of the
radio jet. The inner jet extends ~8.5 kpc towards an optical emission-line High
Ionization Cloud (HIC) before taking a zig-zag path to an offset position. Jet
X-ray synchrotron radiation is seen. The HIC is associated with 0.3 keV X-ray
gas of anomalously low metallicity. On larger scales the radio galaxy displays
all three X-ray features that together confirm supersonic expansion of the
lobes into the external medium: gas cavities, inverse-Compton emission showing
excess internal lobe pressure, and high-contrast arms of temperature above the
~1 keV ambient medium. The well-formed S lobe on the counterjet side is
expanding with a Mach number 2.2-3. We estimate a cavity power ~3x10^43 ergs/s,
which falls well below previously reported correlations with radio power. The
total inferred time-averaged jet power, ~4x10^44 ergs/s, is dominated by the
kinetic and thermal energy of shocked gas, and if used instead would bring the
source into better agreement with the correlations. The S hotspot is the more
complex, with a spiral polarization structure. Its bright peak emits
synchrotron X-rays. The fainter N hotspot is particularly interesting, with
X-rays offset in the direction of the incoming jet by ~1 arcsec relative to the
radio peak. Here modest (delta ~ 6) relativistic beaming and a steep radio
spectrum cause the jet to be X-ray bright through inverse-Compton scattering
before it decelerates. With such beaming, a modest proton content or small
departure from minimum energy in the jet will align estimates of the
instantaneous and time-averaged jet power. The hotspots suggest acceleration of
electrons to a maximum energy ~10^13 eV in the jet termination shocks.