Regenerating codes (RCs) can significantly reduce the repair-bandwidth of
distributed storage networks. Initially, the analysis of RCs was based on the
assumption that during the repair process, the newcomer does not distinguish
(among all surviving nodes) which nodes to access, i.e., the newcomer is
oblivious to the set of helpers being used. Such a scheme is termed the blind
repair (BR) scheme. Nonetheless, it is intuitive in practice that the newcomer
should choose to access only those "good" helpers. In this paper, a new
characterization of the effect of choosing the helper nodes in terms of the
storage-bandwidth tradeoff is given. Specifically, answers to the following
fundamental questions are given: Under what conditions does proactively
choosing the helper nodes improve the storage-bandwidth tradeoff? Can this
improvement be analytically quantified?
  This paper answers the former question by providing a necessary and
sufficient condition under which optimally choosing good helpers strictly
improves the storage-bandwidth tradeoff. To answer the latter question, a
low-complexity helper selection solution, termed the family repair (FR) scheme,
is proposed and the corresponding storage/repair-bandwidth curve is
characterized. For example, consider a distributed storage network with 60
total number of nodes and the network is resilient against 50 node failures. If
the number of helper nodes is 10, then the FR scheme and its variant
demonstrate 27% reduction in the repair-bandwidth when compared to the BR
solution. This paper also proves that under some design parameters, the FR
scheme is indeed optimal among all helper selection schemes. An explicit
construction of an exact-repair code is also proposed that can achieve the
minimum-bandwidth-regenerating point of the FR scheme. The new exact-repair
code can be viewed as a generalization of the existing fractional repetition
code.