We present the physical properties of V404 Lyr exhibiting eclipse timing
variations and multiperiodic pulsations from all historical data including the
Kepler observations. Detailed analyses of 2,922 minimum epochs showed that the
orbital period has varied through a combination with an upward-opening parabola
and two sinusoidal variations, with periods of $P_3$=649 d and $P_4$=2,154 d
and semi-amplitudes of $K_3$=193 s and $K_4$=49 s, respectively. The secular
period increase could be interpreted as a combination of the secondary to
primary mass transfer and angular momentum loss. The most reasonable
explanation for both sinusoids is a pair of light-travel-time effects due to
two circumbinary objects with projected masses of $M_3$=0.47 M$_\odot$ and
$M_4$=0.047 M$_\odot$. The third-body parameters are consistent with those
calculated using the W-D binary code. For the orbital inclinations higher than
43$^\circ$, the fourth component has a mass within the hydrogen-burning limit
of $\sim$0.07 M$_\odot$, which implies that it is a brown dwarf. A satisfactory
model for the Kepler light curves was obtained through applying a cool spot to
the secondary component. The results demonstrate that the close eclipsing pair
is in a semi-detached, but near-contact, configuration; the primary fills
approximately 93% of its limiting lobe and is larger than the lobe-filling
secondary. Multiple frequency analyses were applied to the light residuals
after subtracting the synthetic eclipsing curve from the Kepler data. This
revealed that the primary component of V404 Lyr is a $\gamma$ Dor type
pulsating star, exhibiting seven pulsation frequencies in the range of
1.85$-$2.11 d$^{-1}$ with amplitudes of 1.38$-$5.72 mmag and pulsation
constants of 0.24$-$0.27 d. The seven frequencies were clearly identified as
high-order low-degree gravity-mode oscillations which might be excited through
tidal interaction.