Stellar occultations by Saturn's rings observed with the Visual and Infrared
Mapping Spectrometer (VIMS) onboard the Cassini spacecraft reveal that dusty
features such as the F ring and the ringlets in the Encke and the Laplace Gaps
have distinctive infrared transmission spectra. These spectra show a narrow
optical depth minimum at wavelengths around 2.87 microns. This minimum is
likely due to the Christiansen Effect, a reduction in the extinction of small
particles when their (complex) refractive index is close to that of the
surrounding medium. Simple Mie-scattering models demonstrate that the strength
of this opacity dip is sensitive to the size distribution of particles between
1 and 100 microns across. Furthermore, the spatial resolution of the
occultation data is sufficient to reveal variations in the transmission spectra
within and among these rings. For example, in both the Encke Gap ringlets and F
ring, the opacity dip weakens with increasing local optical depth, which is
consistent with the larger particles being concentrated near the cores of these
rings. The strength of the opacity dip varies most dramatically within the F
ring; certain compact regions of enhanced optical depth lack an opacity dip and
therefore appear to have a greatly reduced fraction of grains in the few-micron
size range.Such spectrally-identifiable structures probably represent a subset
of the compact optically-thick clumps observed by other Cassini instruments.
These variations in the ring's particle size distribution can provide new
insights into the processes of grain aggregation, disruption and transport
within dusty rings. For example, the unusual spectral properties of the F-ring
clumps could perhaps be ascribed to small grains adhering onto the surface of
larger particles in regions of anomalously low velocity dispersion.