In the aim of shedding a new light on the classical black hole evaporation
conjecture stating that a static brane-localized black hole (BH) larger than
the bulk curvature scale does not exist in Randall-Sundrum II (RS-II) model, we
investigate time-symmetric initial data with a brane-localized apparent horizon
(AH) and analyzed its properties. We find that a three-parameter family of such
initial data can be constructed by simply placing a brane on a constant time
surface of Schwarzschild anti-de Sitter space. By this method, we unambiguously
confirm that initial data with an arbitrarily large AH area do exist. We
compare the ADM mass and the horizon area of our initial data with that of the
black string (BS) solution, and find that any initial data constructed by this
method do not have a smaller mass than the BS solution when the horizon area is
larger than the size determined by the bulk curvature scale. We further
investigate what kind of configuration realizes the minimum mass for the same
AH area. The configuration that realizes the smallest mass turns out to be the
one close to the BS truncated by a cap. We also demonstrate that the same
method applies to construct initial data in (3+1)-dimensional RS-II brane
world. In this case an exact solution of a brane-localized BH exists but BS
solution does not. Nevertheless, the behavior of the initial data is quite
similar in both cases. We find that the known exact solution always has a
smaller mass than our initial data with the same horizon area. This result
enforces the standard belief that the exact BH solution is the most stable
black object in the four-dimensional RS-II model. These results are all
consistent with the classical BH evaporation conjecture, but unfortunately it
turns out that they do not provide a strong support of it.