The real-space renormalization group (RSRG) method introduced previously for
the Brownian landscape is generalized to obtain the joint probability
distribution of the subset of the important extrema at large scales of other
one-dimensional landscapes. For a large class of models we give exact solutions
obtained either by the use of constrained path-integrals in the continuum
limit, or by solving the RSRG equations via an Ansatz which leads to the
Liouville equation. We apply in particular our results to the toy model energy
landscape, which consists in a quadratic potential plus a Brownian potential.
The measure of the renormalized landscape is obtained explicitly in terms of
Airy functions, and allows to study in details the Boltzmann equilibrium of a
particle at low temperature as well as its non-equilibrium dynamics. For the
equilibrium, we give results for the statistics of the absolute minimum which
dominates at zero temperature, and for the configurations with nearly
degenerate minima which govern the thermal fluctuations at very
low-temperature. For the dynamics, we compute the distribution over samples of
the equilibration time, or equivalently the distribution of the largest barrier
in the system. We also study the properties of the rare configurations
presenting an anomalously large equilibration time which govern the long-time
dynamics. We compute the disorder averaged diffusion front, which interpolates
between the Kesten distribution of the Sinai model at short rescaled time and
the reaching of equilibrium at long rescaled time. Finally, the method allows
to describe the full coarsening (i.e. many domain walls) of the 1D RFIM in a
field gradient as well as its equilibrium.