We resume the discussion about irradiation-driven mass transfer cycles in
semi- detached compact binary systems. The analytical model that describes the
onset of these cycles, which occur on a thermal timescale of the donor star, is
reexamined. We take into account a contribution of the thermal relaxation which
is not related to the irradiation of the donor star and which was neglected in
previous studies. Cataclysmic variables (CVs) containing extended giant donors
are more stable than previously thought. CVs close to the upper edge of the
period gap can undergo cycles for low angular momentum loss rates, as they have
been suggested by recent magnetic braking prescriptions, while they are stable
for high braking rates. A model for the irradiation geometry that takes into
account surface elements near the terminator of the donor star indicates that
possibly also low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs) can undergo mass transfer cycles.
Regarding the braking rate, which is necessary to drive cycles, basically the
same restrictions apply for short period LMXBs as they do for short period CVs.
We confirm that LMXBs containing giants can undergo cyles. In terms of an
irradiation efficiency parameter \alpha CVs are susceptible to the irradiation
instability for \alpha >= 0.1 while LMXBs are susceptible for \alpha <= 0.1.
The predictions of the analytical model are checked by the first long-term
evolutionary computations of systems undergoing mass transfer cycles with full
1D stellar models. For unevolved main sequence (MS) and giant donors the
analytic model provides reasonable values for the boundaries of the stable and
unstable regions while CVs containing highly evolved MS donors are more stable
at high braking rates than expected.Taking into account irradiation the minimum
period of CVs is increased by up to 1-2 minutes, depending on \alpha.