Neuroscientific studies of the drawing-like movements usually analyze neural
representation of either geometric (eg. direction, shape) or temporal (eg.
speed) features of trajectories rather than trajectory's representation as a
whole. This work is about empirically supported mathematical ideas behind
splitting and merging geometric and temporal features which characterize
biological movements. Movement primitives supposedly facilitate the efficiency
of movements' representation in the brain and comply with different criteria
for biological movements, among them kinematic smoothness and geometric
constraint. Criterion for trajectories' maximal smoothness of arbitrary order
$n$ is employed, $n = 3$ is the case of the minimum-jerk model. I derive a
class of differential equations obeyed by movement paths for which $n$th order
maximally smooth trajectories have constant rate of accumulating geometric
measurement along the drawn path. The geometric measurement is invariant under
a class of geometric transformations and may be chosen to be an arc in certain
geometry. For example the two-thirds power-law model corresponds to piece-wise
constant speed of accumulating equi-affine arc. Equations' solutions presumably
serve as candidates for geometric movement primitives. The derived class of
differential equations consists of two parts. The first part is identical for
all geometric parameterizations of the path. The second part is parametrization
specific and is needed to identify whether a solution of the first part indeed
represents a curve. Counter-examples are provided. Equations in different
geometries in plane and in space and their known solutions are presented. A
method for constructing trajectories based on primitives in different
geometries is proposed. The derived class of differential equations is a novel
tool for discovering candidates for geometric movement primitives.