Scattered light images of circumstellar disks play an important role in
characterizing the planet forming environments around young stars. The
characteristic size of the scattering dust grains can be estimated from the
observed brightness asymmetry between the front and back side of the disk, for
example using standard Mie theory. However such models often overpredict their
brightness by one or two orders of magnitude, and have difficulty explaining
very red disk colors. We aim to develop a dust model that explains
simultaneously the observed disk surface brightness, colors and asymmetry in
scattered light, focusing on constraining grain sizes. We use the 2D radiative
transfer code MCMax with anisotropic scattering to explore the effects of grain
size on synthetic scattered light images of circumstellar disks. We compare the
results with surface brightness profiles of the protoplanetary disk HD 100546
in scattered light at wavelengths from 0.4 to 2.2 micron. We find that extreme
forward scattering by micron sized particles lowers the /effective/ dust albedo
and creates a faint and red disk that /appears/ only slightly forward
scattering. For the outer (>~100 AU) disk of HD 100546 we derive a minimum
grain size of 2.5 micron, likely present in the form of aggregates.
Intermediate sized grains are too bright, whereas smaller grains are faint and
scatter more isotropically, but also produce disk colors that are too blue.
Observed surface brightness asymmetries alone are not sufficient to constrain
the grain size in circumstellar disks. Additional information, such as the
brightness and colors of the disk are needed to provide additional constraints.