If the Standard Model (SM) is an effective theory, as currently believed, it
is valid up to some energy scale $\Lambda$ to which the Higgs vacuum
expectation value is sensitive throughout radiative quadratic terms. The latter
ones destabilize the electroweak vacuum and generate the SM hierarchy problem.
For a given perturbative Ultraviolet (UV) completion, the SM cutoff can be
computed in terms of fundamental parameters. If the UV mass spectrum involves
several scales the cutoff is not unique and each SM sector has its own UV
cutoff $\Lambda_i$. We have performed this calculation assuming the Minimal
Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) is the SM UV completion. As a result, from
the SM point of view, the quadratic corrections to the Higgs mass are
equivalent to finite threshold contributions. For the measured values of the
top quark and Higgs masses, and depending on the values of the different
cutoffs $\Lambda_i$, these contributions can cancel even at renormalization
scales as low as multi-TeV, unlike the case of a single cutoff where the
cancellation only occurs at Planckian energies, a result originally obtained by
Veltman. From the MSSM point of view, the requirement of stability of the
electroweak minimum under radiative corrections is incorporated into the
matching conditions and provides an extra constraint on the Focus Point
solution to the little hierarchy problem in the MSSM. These matching conditions
can be employed for precise calculations of the Higgs sector in scenarios with
heavy supersymmetric fields.