We used moderately high-resolution, high S/N spectra to study the chemical
composition of 10 field ab-type RR Lyrae stars. A new temperature scale was
determined from literature Infrared Flux Method measures of subdwarfs and the
Kurucz (1992) model atmospheres, and used to calibrate colors for both dwarfs
and RR Lyraes. The applicability of Kurucz (1992) model atmospheres in the
analysis of RR Lyraes at minimum light was analyzed: we found that they are
able to reproduce colors, excitation and ionization equilibria as well as the
wings of Halpha. We derived abundances for 21 species. The metal abundances of
the program stars span the range -2.50<[Fe/H]<+0.17$. Lines of most elements
are found to form in LTE conditions. Fe lines satisfy very well the excitation
and ionization equilibria. RR Lyraes share the typical abundance pattern of
other stars of similar [Fe/H]: alpha-elements are overabundant by about 0.4dex
and Mn is underabundant by about 0.6dex in stars with [Fe/H]<-1. Significant
departures from LTE are found only for a few species. We used our new [Fe/H]
abundances, as well as values from Butler and coworkers (corrected to our
system), and from high resolution spectroscopy of globular clusters giants, to
obtain a new calibration of the DeltaS index: [Fe/H]= -0.194(\pm 0.011)DeltaS
-0.08(\pm 0.18) and to update the metallicity calibration of the Ca II K line
index: [Fe/H]= 0.65(\pm 0.17)W'(K) -3.49(\pm 0.39). Finally, our new
metallicity scale was used to revise the [Fe/H] dependence of the absolute
magnitude of RR Lyrae stars, Mv: Mv = 0.20(\pm 0.03)[Fe/H] + 1.06(\pm 0.04).