Radial velocities from the 2.1 m telescope at McDonald Observatory
supplemented with radial velocities from the coude' feed telescope at KPNO
provide new precise orbits for the double-lined spectroscopic binaries RR Lyn
(A3/A8/A6), 12 Boo (F8IV), and HR 6169 (A2V). We derive orbital dimensions and
minimum masses with accuracies of 0.06 to 0.9 %. The three systems, which have
V magnitudes of 5.54, 4.83, and 6.42, respectively, are all sufficiently bright
that they are easily within the grasp of modern optical interferometers and so
afford the prospect, when our spectroscopic observations are complemented by
interferometric observations, of fully-determined orbits, precise masses, and
distances. In the case of RR Lyn, which is also a detached eclipsing binary
with a well-determined orbital inclination, we are able to determine the
semimajor axis of the relative orbit, a = 29.32 +/- 0.04 Rsun, primary and
secondary radii of 2.57 +/- 0.02 Rsun and 1.59 +/- 0.03 Rsun, respectively; and
primary and secondary masses of 1.927 +/- 0.008 Msun and 1.507 +/- 0.004 Msun,
respectively. Comparison of our new systemic velocity determination, gamma =
-12.03 +/- 0.04 km/s, with an earlier one, gamma = -11.61 +/- 0.30 km/s, shows
no evidence of any change in the systemic velocity in the 40 years separating
the two measurements, a null result that neither confirms nor contradicts the
presence of the low-mass third component proposed by Khaliullin & Khaliullina
(2002). Our spectroscopic orbit of 12 Boo is more precise that that of Boden et
al. (2005), but confirms their results about this system. Our analysis of HR
6169 has produced a major improvement in its orbital elements. The minimum
masses of the primary and secondary are 2.20 +/- 0.01 and 1.64 +/- 0.02 Msun,
respectively.