We discuss the clustering properties of galaxies with signs of ongoing star
formation detected by the Spitzer Space Telescope at 24mum band in the SWIRE
Lockman Hole field. The sample of mid-IR-selected galaxies includes ~20,000
objects detected above a flux threshold of S24mum=310muJy. We adopt
optical/near-IR color selection criteria to split the sample into the
lower-redshift and higher-redshift galaxy populations. We measure the angular
correlation function on scales of theta=0.01-3.5 deg, from which, using the
Limber inversion along with the redshift distribution established for similarly
selected source populations in the GOODS fields (Rodighiero et al. 2010), we
obtain comoving correlation lengths of r0=4.98+-0.28 h^-1 Mpc and r0
=8.04+-0.69 h^-1 Mpc for the low-z (<z>=0.7) and high-z (<z>=1.7) subsamples,
respectively. Comparing these measurements with the correlation functions of
dark matter halos identified in the Bolshoi cosmological simulation (Klypin et
al. 2011}, we find that the high-redshift objects reside in progressively more
massive halos reaching Mtot>3e12 h^-1 Msun, compared to Mtot>7e11 h^-1 Msun for
the low-redshift population. Approximate estimates of the IR luminosities based
on the catalogs of 24mum sources in the GOODS fields show that our high-z
subsample represents a population of "distant ULIRGs" with LIR>10^12Lsun, while
the low-z subsample mainly consists of "LIRGs", LIR~10^11Lsun. The comparison
of number density of the 24mum selected galaxies and of dark matter halos with
derived minimum mass Mtot shows that only 20% of such halos may host
star-forming galaxies.