We present a revised and extended total and spectral solar irradiance (SSI)
reconstruction, which includes a wavelength-dependent uncertainty estimate,
spanning the last three solar cycles using the SATIRE-S model. The SSI
reconstruction covers wavelengths between 115 and 160,000 nm and all dates
between August 1974 and October 2009. This represents the first full-wavelength
SATIRE-S reconstruction to cover the last three solar cycles without data gaps
and with an uncertainty estimate. SATIRE-S is compared with the NRLSSI model
and SORCE/SOLSTICE ultraviolet (UV) observations. SATIRE-S displays similar
cycle behaviour to NRLSSI for wavelengths below 242 nm and almost twice the
variability between 242 and 310 nm. During the decline of last solar cycle,
between 2003 and 2008, SSI from SORCE/SOLSTICE version 12 and 10 typically
displays more than three times the variability of SATIRE-S between 200 and 300
nm. All three datasets are used to model changes in stratospheric ozone within
a 2D atmospheric model for a decline from high solar activity to solar minimum.
The different flux changes result in different modelled ozone trends. Using
NRLSSI leads to a decline in mesospheric ozone, while SATIRE-S and
SORCE/SOLSTICE result in an increase. Recent publications have highlighted
increases in mesospheric ozone when considering version 10 SORCE/SOLSTICE
irradiances. The recalibrated SORCE/SOLSTICE version 12 irradiances result in a
much smaller mesospheric ozone response than when using version 10 and now
similar in magnitude to SATIRE-S. This shows that current knowledge of
variations in spectral irradiance is not sufficient to warrant robust
conclusions concerning the impact of solar variability on the atmosphere and
climate.