Two multifrequency campaigns were carried out on OJ287 in 2005: in April when
it was in its pre-outburst state, and in November, during the main 12 yr cycle
outburst. The wavelength coverage was from radio to X-rays. In the
optical-to-UV range the differential spectrum between the observations has a
bremsstrahlung spectral shape, consistent with gas at $3 \times 10^{5}K$
temperature. Our result supports the hydrogen column density of the OJ287 host
galaxy of $\sim9.3\times 10^{20} cm^{-2}$, the average value found by Gosh &
Soundararajaperumal. The $3 \times 10^{5}K$ bremsstrahlung radiation was
predicted in the binary black hole model of OJ287, and it arises from a hot
bubble of gas which is torn off the accretion disc by the impact of the
secondary. As this radiation is not Doppler boosted, the brightness of the
outburst provides an estimate for the mass of the secondary black hole,
$\sim1.4\times10^{8}$ solar mass. In order to estimate the mass of the primary
black hole, we ask what is the minimum mass ratio in a binary system which
allows the stability of the accretion disc. By using particle simulations, we
find that the ratio is $\sim1.3\times10^{2}$. This makes the minimum mass of
the primary $\sim1.8\times10^{10}$ solar mass, in agreement with the mass
determined from the orbit solution, $1.84 \times 10^{10}$ solar mass. With this
mass value and the measured K-magnitude of the bulge of the host galaxy of
OJ287, the system lies almost exactly on the previously established correlation
in the black hole mass vs. K-magnitude diagramme. It supports the extension of
this correlation to brighter magnitudes and to more massive black holes than
has been done previously.