We study stellar convection using a local three-dimensional MHD model, with
which we investigate the influence of rotation and large-scale magnetic fields
on the turbulent momentum and heat transport. The former is studied by
computing the Reynolds stresses, the latter by calculating the correlation of
velocity and temperature fluctuations, both as functions of rotation and
latitude. We find that the horisontal correlation, Q_(theta phi), capable of
generating horisontal differential rotation, is mostly negative in the southern
hemisphere for Coriolis numbers exceeding unity, corresponding to equatorward
flux of angular momentum in accordance with solar observations. The radial
component Q_(r phi) is negative for slow and intermediate rotation indicating
inward transport of angular momentum, while for rapid rotation, the transport
occurs outwards. Parametrisation in terms of the mean-field Lambda-effect shows
qualitative agreement with the turbulence model of Kichatinov & R\"udiger
(1993) for the horisontal part H \propto Q_(theta phi)/cos(theta), whereas for
the vertical part, V \propto Q_(r phi)/sin(theta), agreement only for
intermediate rotation exists. The Lambda-coefficients become suppressed in the
limit of rapid rotation, this rotational quenching being stronger for the V
component than for H. We find that the stresses are enhanced by the presence of
the magnetic field for field strengths up to and above the equipartition value,
without significant quenching. Concerning the turbulent heat transport, our
calculations show that the transport in the radial direction is most efficient
at the equatorial regions, obtains a minimum at midlatitudes, and shows a
slight increase towards the poles. The latitudinal heat transport does not show
a systematic trend as function of latitude or rotation.