F-theory is one of frameworks in string theory where supersymmetric grand
unification is accommodated, and all the Yukawa couplings and Majorana masses
of right-handed neutrinos are generated. Yukawa couplings of charged fermions
are generated at codimension-3 singularities, and a contribution from a given
singularity point is known to be approximately rank 1. Thus, the approximate
rank of Yukawa matrices in low-energy effective theory of generic F-theory
compactifications are minimum of either the number of generations N_gen = 3 or
the number of singularity points of certain types. If there is a geometry with
only one E_6 type point and one D_6 type point over the entire 7-brane for
SU(5) gauge fields, F-theory compactified on such a geometry would reproduce
approximately rank-1 Yukawa matrices in the real world. We found, however, that
there is no such geometry. Thus, it is a problem how to generate hierarchical
Yukawa eigenvalues in F-theory compactifications. A solution in the literature
so far is to take an appropriate factorization limit. In this article, we
propose an alternative solution to the hierarchical structure problem (which
requires to tune some parameters) by studying how zero mode wavefunctions
depend on complex structure moduli. In this solution, the N_gen x N_gen CKM
matrix is predicted to have only N_gen entries of order unity without an extra
tuning of parameters, and the lepton flavor anarchy is predicted for the lepton
mixing matrix. We also obtained a precise description of zero mode
wavefunctions near the E_6 type singularity points, where the up-type Yukawa
couplings are generated.