In a previous work, Ulysses data was analyzed to build a complete
axisymmetric MHD solution for the solar wind at minimum including rotation and
the initial flaring of the solar wind in the low corona. This model has some
problems in reproducing the values of magnetic field at 1 AU despite the
correct values of the velocity. Here, we intend to extend the previous analysis
to another type of solutions and to improve our modelling of the wind from the
solar surface to 1 AU. We compare the previous results to those obtained with a
fully helicoidal model and construct a hybrid model combining both previous
solutions, keeping the flexibility of the parent models in the appropriate
domain. From the solar surface to the Alfven, point, a three component solution
for velocity and magnetic field is used, reproducing the complex wind geometry
and the well-known flaring of the field lines observed in coronal holes. From
the Alfven radius to 1 AU and further, the hybrid model keeps the latitudinal
dependences as flexible as possible, in order to deal with the sharp variations
near the equator and we use the helicoidal solution, turning the poloidal
streamlines into radial ones. Despite the absence of the initial flaring, the
helicoidal model and the first hybrid solution suffer from the same low values
of the magnetic field at 1 AU. However, by adjusting the parameters with a
second hybrid solution, we are able to reproduce both the velocity and magnetic
profiles observed by Ulysses and a reasonable description of the low corona,
provided that a certain amount of energy deposit exists along the flow. The
present paper shows that analytical axisymmetric solutions can be constructed
to reproduce the solar structure and dynamics from 1 solar radius up to 1 AU.