We present the results of simultaneous high resolution observations of v=1
and v=2, J=1-0 SiO masers toward TX Cam at four epochs covering a stellar
cycle. Near maser maximum (Epochs III and IV), the individual components of
both masers are distributed in ring-like structures but the ring is severely
disrupted near stellar maser minimum (Epochs I and II). In Epochs III and IV
there is a large overlap between the radii at which the two maser transitions
occur. However in both epochs the average radius of the v=2 maser ring is
smaller than for the v=1 maser ring, the difference being larger for Epoch IV.
The observed relative ring radii in the two transitions, and the trends on the
ring thickness, are close to those predicted by the model of Humphreys et al.
(\cite{humphreys02}). In many individual features there is an almost exact
overlap in space and velocity of emission from the two transitions, arguing
against pure radiative pumping. At both Epochs III and IV in many spectral
features only 50% of the flux density is recovered in our images, implying
significant smooth maser structure. For both transitions we find that red- and
blue-shifted masers occur in all parts of the rings, with relatively few masers
at the systemic velocity. Thus there is no evidence for rotation, although the
blue-shifted masers are somewhat more prominent to the west. At all four epochs
red-shifted components are generally brighter than blue-shifted ones. At Epochs
III and IV, we see many filamentary or spoke-like features in both v=1 and v=2
masers, especially in the red-shifted gas. These spokes show systematic
velocity gradients consistent with a decelerating outward flow with increasing
radius. We outline a possible model to explain why, given the presence of these
spokes, there is a deficit of maser features at the systemic velocity.