A 5.2' x 5.2' region toward the young cluster IC 348 has been imaged in the
millimeter continuum at 4.0" x 4.9" resolution with the OVRO interferometer to
a RMS noise level of 0.75 mJy/beam at 98 GHz. The data are used to constrain
the circumstellar disk masses in a cluster environment at an age of about 2
Myr. The mosaic encompasses 95 known members of the IC 348 cluster with a
stellar mass distribution that peaks at 0.2-0.5 Msun. None of the stars are
detected in the millimeter continuum at an intensity level of 3 sigma or
greater. The mean observed flux for the ensemble of 95 stars is 0.22 +/- 0.08
mJy. Assuming a dust temperature of 20 K, a mass opacity coefficient of kappa_o
= 0.02 cm^2/g at 1300 um, and a power law index of beta=1 for the particle
emissivity, these observations imply that the 3 sigma upper limit to the disk
mass around any individual star is 0.025 Msun, and that the average disk mass
is 0.002 +/- 0.001 Msun. The absence of disks with masses in excess of 0.025
Msun in IC 348 is different at the about 3 sigma confidence level from Taurus,
where about 14% of the stars in an optically selected sample have such disk
masses. Compared with the minimum mass needed to form the planets in our solar
system (about 0.01 Msun), the lack of massive disks and the low mean disk mass
in IC 348 suggest either that planets more massive than a few Jupiter masses
will form infrequently around 0.2-0.5 Msun stars in IC 348, or that the process
to form such planets has significantly depleted the disk of small dust grains
on time scales less than the cluster age of about 2 Myr.