Keck HIRES spectra were obtained of the separate images of three
gravitationally lensed QSOs (UM 673, Q1104-1804, and Q1422+2309). We studied
the velocity and column density differences in CIV doublets in each QSO. Unlike
the low ionization gas clouds typical of the interstellar gas in the Galaxy or
damped Ly alpha galaxies, the spatial density distribution of CIV absorbing gas
clouds turns out to be mostly featureless on scales up to a few hundred
parsecs, with column density differences rising to 50 percent or more over
separations beyond a few kpc. Similarly, velocity shear becomes detectable only
over distances larger than a few hundred pc, rising to 70 km/s at a few kpc.
The energy transmitted to the gas is substantially less than in present day
star-forming regions, and the gas is less turbulent on a given spatial scale
than, e.g., local HII regions. The quiescence of CIV clouds, taken with their
probable low density, imply that these objects are not internal to galaxies.
The CIV absorbers could be gas expelled recently to large radii and raining
back onto its parent galaxy, or pre-enriched gas from an earlier (population
III) episode of star formation, falling into the nearest mass concentration.
However, while the metals in the gas may have been formed at higher redshifts,
the residual turbulence in the clouds and the minimum coherence length measured
here imply that the gas was stirred more recently, possibly by star formation
events recurring on a timescale on the order of 10-100 Million years (abstract
abbreviated).