We report precision Doppler measurements of three intermediate-mass subgiants
from Lick and Keck Observatories. All three stars show variability in their
radial velocities consistent with planet-mass companions in Keplerian orbits.
We find a planet with a minimum mass of 2.5 Mjup in a 351.5 day orbit around HD
192699, a planet with a minimum mass of 2.0 Mjup in a 341.1 day orbit around HD
210702, and a planet with a minimum mass of 0.61 Mjup in a 297.3 day orbit
around HD 175541. Stellar mass estimates from evolutionary models indicate that
all of these stars were formerly A-type dwarfs with masses ranging from 1.65 to
1.85 Msun. These three long-period planets would not have been detectable
during their stars' main-sequence phases due to the large rotational velocities
and stellar jitter exhibited by early-type dwarfs. There are now 9 "retired"
(evolved) A-type stars (Mstar > 1.6 Msun) with known planets. All 9 planets
orbit at distances a \geq 0.78 AU, which is significantly different than the
semimajor axis distribution of planets around lower-mass stars. We examine the
possibility that the observed lack of close-in planets is due to engulfment by
their expanding host stars, but we find that this explanation is inadequate
given the relatively small stellar radii of K giants (Rstar < 32 Rsun = 0.15
AU) and subgiants (Rstar < 7 Rsun = 0.03 AU). Instead, we conclude that planets
around intermediate-mass stars reside preferentially beyond ~0.8 AU, which may
be a reflection of different formation and migration histories of planets
around A-type stars.