The weak, R-type ionization fronts (I-fronts) which swept across the
intergalactic medium (IGM) during the reionization of the universe often found
their paths blocked by cosmological minihaloes. When this happened, the neutral
gas which filled each minihalo was photoevaporated; as the I-front burned its
way through the halo, decelerating from R-type to D-type, all the gas was blown
back into the IGM as an ionized, supersonic wind. In a previous paper (Shapiro,
Iliev and Raga 2004), we described this process and presented our results of
the first simulations of it by numerical gas dynamics with radiation transport
in detail. For illustration we focused on the particular case of a 10^7 solar
masses minihalo overrun at z=9 by an intergalactic I-front caused by a distant
source of ionizing radiation, for different source spectra (either stellar from
massive Pop. II or III stars, or QSO-like) and a flux level typical of that
expected during reionization. In a LambdaCDM universe, minihaloes formed in
abundance before and during reionization and, thus, their photoevaporation is
an important, possibly dominant, feature of reionization, which slowed it down
and wasted ionizing photons. We have now performed a larger set of
high-resolution simulations to determine and quantify the dependence of
minihalo photoevaporation times and photon consumption rates on halo mass,
redshift, ionizing flux level and spectrum. We find that the average number of
ionizing photons each minihalo atom absorbs during its photoevaporation is
typically in the range 2-10. For the collapsed fraction in minihaloes expected
during reionization, this can add about 1 photon per total atom to the
requirements for completing reionization, potentially doubling the minimum
number of photons required to reionize the universe.