We have examined images from the Large Angle Spectroscopic Coronagraph
(LASCO) to study the relationship of Coronal Mass Ejections (CMEs) to coronal
streamers. We wish to test the suggestion (Low 1996) that CMEs arise from flux
ropes embedded in a streamer erupting, thus disrupting the streamer. The data
span a period of two years near sunspot minimum through a period of increased
activity as sunspot numbers increased. We have used LASCO data from the C2
coronagraph which records Thomson scattered white light from coronal electrons
at heights between 1.5 and 6R_sun. Maps of the coronal streamers have been
constructed from LASCO C2 observations at a height of 2.5R_sun at the east and
west limbs. We have superposed the corresponding positions of CMEs observed
with the C2 coronagraph onto the synoptic maps. We identified the different
kinds of signatures CMEs leave on the streamer structure at this height
(2.5R_sun). We find four types of CMEs with respect to their effect on
streamers:
  1. CMEs that disrupt the streamer 2. CMEs that have no effect on the
streamer, even though they are related to it. 3. CMEs that create streamer-like
structures 4. CMEs that are latitudinally displaced from the streamer.
  This is the most extensive observational study of the relation between CMEs
and streamers to date. Previous studies using SMM data have made the general
statement that CMEs are mostly associated with streamers, and that they
frequently disrupt it. However, we find that approximately 35% of the observed
CMEs bear no relation to the pre-existing streamer, while 46% have no effect on
the observed streamer, even though they appear to be related to it. Our
conclusions thus differ considerably from those of previous studies.