The popularity of online social media platforms provides an unprecedented
opportunity to study real-world complex networks of interactions. However,
releasing this data to researchers and the public comes at the cost of
potentially exposing private and sensitive user information. It has been shown
that a naive anonymization of a network by removing the identity of the nodes
is not sufficient to preserve users' privacy. In order to deal with malicious
attacks, k-anonymity solutions have been proposed to partially obfuscate
topological information that can be used to infer nodes' identity.
  In this paper, we study the problem of ensuring k-anonymity in time-varying
graphs, i.e., graphs with a structure that changes over time, and multi-layer
graphs, i.e., graphs with multiple types of links. More specifically, we
examine the case in which the attacker has access to the degree of the nodes.
The goal is to generate a new graph where, given the degree of a node in each
(temporal) layer of the graph, such a node remains indistinguishable from other
k-1 nodes in the graph. In order to achieve this, we find the optimal
partitioning of the graph nodes such that the cost of anonymizing the degree
information within each group is minimum. We show that this reduces to a
special case of a Generalized Assignment Problem, and we propose a simple yet
effective algorithm to solve it. Finally, we introduce an iterated linear
programming approach to enforce the realizability of the anonymized degree
sequences. The efficacy of the method is assessed through an extensive set of
experiments on synthetic and real-world graphs.