Transition of an electron from a free to a bound state is critical in
determining the qualitative shape of the spectrum in high-order harmonic
generation (HHG), and in tomographic imaging of orbitals. We calculate and
compare the recombination amplitude, from a continuum state described by a
plane wave and an outgoing scattering eigenstate, to the bound state for the
noble gases that are commonly used in HHG. These calculations are based on the
single active electron model and the Hartree-Fock-Slater method, using both the
length form and the acceleration form of the dipole matrix element. We confirm
that the recombination amplitude versus emitted photon energy strongly depends
upon the wavefunction used to describe the free electron. Depending on the
choice of the wavefunction and the dipole form, the square of the absolute
value of the recombination amplitude can differ by almost two orders of
magnitude near the experimentally measured Cooper minima. Moreover, only the
outgoing scattering eigenstates with the length form roughly predict the
experimentally observed Cooper minimum for Ar (~50 eV) and Kr (~85 eV). We
provide a detailed derivation of the photorecombination cross sections (PRCSs)
from photo ionization cross sections (PICSs) calculated by the relativistic
random phase approximation (RRPA)., For Ar, Kr and Xe, compare the total PICSs
calculated using our recombination amplitudes with that obtained from RRPA. We
find that PICS calculated using the outgoing scattering eigenstates with the
length form is in better agreement with the RRPA calculations than the
acceleration form.