We investigate a population of transiting planets that receive relatively
modest stellar insolation, indicating equilibrium temperatures $< 1000$ K, and
for which the heating mechanism that inflates hot Jupiters does not appear to
be significantly active. We use structural evolution models to infer the amount
of heavy elements within each of these planets. There is a correlation between
the stellar metallicity and the mass of heavy elements in its transiting
planet(s). It appears that all giant planets posses a minimum of $\sim$ 10-15
Earth masses of heavy elements, with planets around metal-rich stars having
larger heavy element masses. There is also an inverse relationship between the
mass of the planet and the metal enrichment ($Z_{\textrm pl} / Z_{\textrm
star}$), which appears to have little dependency on the metallicity of the
star. Saturn- and Jupiter-like enrichments above solar composition are a
hallmark of all the gas giants in the sample, even planets of several Jupiter
masses. These relationships provides an important constraint on planet
formation, and suggests large amounts of heavy elements within planetary H/He
envelopes. We suggest that the observed correlation can soon also be applied to
inflated planets, such that the interior heavy element abundance of these
planets could be estimated, yielding better constraints no their interior
energy sources. We point to future directions for planetary population
synthesis models and suggest future correlations. This appears to be the first
evidence that extrasolar giant planets, as a class, are enhanced in heavy
elements.