We explore the dynamics of small planetesimals coexisting with massive
protoplanetary cores in a gaseous nebula. Gas drag strongly affects the motion
of small bodies leading to the decay of their eccentricities and inclinations,
which are excited by the gravity of protoplanetary cores. Drag acting on larger
($\gtrsim 1$ km), high velocity planetesimals causes a mere reduction of their
average random velocity. By contrast, drag qualitatively changes the dynamics
of smaller ($\lesssim 0.1-1$ km), low velocity objects: (1) small planetesimals
sediment towards the midplane of the nebula forming vertically thin subdisk;
(2) their random velocities rapidly decay between successive passages of the
cores and, as a result, encounters with cores typically occur at the minimum
relative velocity allowed by the shear in the disk. This leads to a drastic
increase in the accretion rate of small planetesimals by the protoplanetary
cores, allowing cores to grow faster than expected in the simple oligarchic
picture, provided that the population of small planetesimals contains more than
roughly 1% of the solid mass in the nebula. Fragmentation of larger
planetesimals ($\gtrsim 1$ km) in energetic collisions triggered by the
gravitational scattering by cores can easily channel this amount of material
into small bodies on reasonable timescales ($< 1$ Myr in the outer Solar
System), providing a means for the rapid growth (within several Myr at 30 AU)
of rather massive protoplanetary cores. Effects of inelastic collisions between
planetesimals and presence of multiple protoplanetary cores are discussed.