Thermal noise is expected to be the dominant source of noise in the most
sensitive frequency band of second generation ground based gravitational wave
detectors. Reshaping the beam to a flatter wider profile which probes more of
the mirror surface reduces this noise. The "Mesa" beam shape has been proposed
for this purpose and was subsequently generalized to a family of hyperboloidal
beams with two parameters: twist angle alpha and beam width D. Varying alpha
allows a continuous transition from the nearly-flat to the nearly-concentric
Mesa beam configurations. We analytically prove that in the limit of infinite D
hyperboloidal beams become Gaussians. The Advanced LIGO diffraction loss design
constraint is 1 ppm per bounce. In the past the diffraction loss has often been
calculated using the clipping approximation that, in general, underestimates
the diffraction loss. We develop a code using pseudo-spectral methods to
compute the diffraction loss directly from the propagator. We find that the
diffraction loss is not a strictly monotonic function of beam width, but has
local minima that occur due to finite mirror effects and leads to natural
choices of D. For the Mesa beam a local minimum occurs at D = 10.67 cm and
leads to a diffraction loss of 1.4 ppm. We find that if one requires a
diffraction loss of strictly 1 ppm, the alpha = 0.91 pi hyperboloidal beam is
optimal, leading to the coating thermal noise being lower by about 10% than for
a Mesa beam while other types of thermal noise decrease as well. We then
develop an iterative process that reconstructs the mirror to specifically
account for finite mirror effects. This allows us to increase the D parameter
and lower the coating noise by about 30% compared to the original Mesa
configuration.