(Abridged) The main sequence star beta Pictoris hosts the best studied
circumstellar disk to date. Nonetheless, a long-standing puzzle has been around
since the detection of metallic gas in the disk: radiation pressure from the
star should blow the gas away, yet the observed motion is consistent with
Keplerian rotation. In this work we search for braking mechanisms that can
resolve this discrepancy. We find that all species affected by radiation force
are heavily ionized and dynamically coupled into a single fluid by Coulomb
collisions, reducing the radiation force on species feeling the strongest
acceleration. For a gas of solar composition, the resulting total radiation
force still exceeds gravity, while a gas of enhanced carbon abundance could be
self-braking. We also explore two other braking agents: collisions with dust
grains and neutral gas. Grains surrounding beta Pic are photoelectrically
charged to a positive electrostatic potential. If a significant fraction of the
grains are carbonaceous (10% in the midplane and larger at higher altitudes),
ions can be slowed down to satisfy the observed velocity constraints. For
neutral gas to brake the coupled ion fluid, we find the minimum required mass
to be $\approx$ 0.03 $M_\earth$, consistent with observed upper limits of the
hydrogen column density, and substantially reduced relative to previous
estimates. Our results favor a scenario in which metallic gas is generated by
grain evaporation in the disk, perhaps during grain-grain collisions. We
exclude a primordial origin for the gas, but cannot rule out the possibility of
its production by falling evaporating bodies near the star. We discuss the
implications of this work for observations of gas in other debris disks.