The commonly used classical equipartition or minimum-energy estimate of total
magnetic fields strengths from radio synchrotron intensities is of limited
practical use because it is based on the hardly known ratio K of the total
energies of cosmic ray protons and electrons and also has inherent problems. We
present a revised formula, using the number density ratio K for which we give
estimates. For particle acceleration in strong shocks K is about 40 and
increases with decreasing shock strength. Our revised estimate for the field
strength gives larger values than the classical estimate for flat radio spectra
with spectral indices of about 0.5-0.6, but smaller values for steep spectra
and total fields stronger than about 10 muG. In very young supernova remnants,
for example, the classical estimate may be too large by up to 10x. On the other
hand, if energy losses of cosmic ray electrons are important, K increases with
particle energy and the equipartition field may be underestimated
significantly. Our revised larger equipartition estimates in galaxy clusters
and radio lobes are consistent with independent estimates from Faraday rotation
measures, while estimates from the ratio between radio synchrotron and X-ray
inverse Compton intensities generally give much weaker fields. This may be
explained e.g. by a concentration of the field in filaments. Our revised field
strengths may also lead to major revisions of electron lifetimes in jets and
radio lobes estimated from the synchrotron break frequency in the radio
spectrum.