We present X-ray spectral fits to a recently obtained Chandra grating
spectrum of Eta Carinae, one of the most massive and powerful stars in the
Galaxy and which is strongly suspected to be a colliding wind binary system.
Hydrodynamic models of colliding winds are used to generate synthetic X-ray
spectra for a range of mass-loss rates and wind velocities. They are then
fitted against newly acquired Chandra grating data. We find that due to the low
velocity of the primary wind (~500 km/s), most of the observed X-ray emission
appears to arise from the shocked wind of the companion star. We use the
duration of the lightcurve minimum to fix the wind momentum ratio at 0.2. We
are then able to obtain a good fit to the data by varying the mass-loss rate of
the companion and the terminal velocity of its wind. We find that Mdot ~ 1e-5
Msol/yr and v ~ 3000 km/s. With observationally determined values of ~500-700
km/s for the velocity of the primary wind, our fit implies a primary mass-loss
rate of Mdot ~ 2.5e-4 Msol/yr. This value is smaller than commonly inferred,
although we note that a lower mass-loss rate can reduce some of the problems
noted by Hillier et al. (2001) when a value as high as 1e-3 Msol/yr is used.
The wind parameters of the companion are indicative of a massive star which may
or may not be evolved. The line strengths appear to show slightly sub-solar
abundances, although this needs further confirmation. Based on the
over-estimation of the X-ray line strengths in our model, and re-interpretation
of the HST/FOS results, it appears that the homunculus nebula was produced by
the primary star.