Under the assumption that the superconducting state belongs to a single
irreducible representation of lattice symmetry, we argue that the pairing
symmetry in all measured iron-based superconductors is universally consistent
with the A_{1g} s-wave. The robust s-wave pairing throughout the different
families of iron-based superconductors at different doping regions signals two
fundamental principles behind high T_c superconducting mechanisms: (1) the
correspondence principle: the short range magnetic exchange interactions and
the Fermi surfaces act collaboratively to achieve high T_c superconductivity
and determine pairing symmetries; (2) the magnetic selection pairing rule: the
superconductivity is only induced by the magnetic exchange couplings from the
superexchange mechanism through cation-anion-cation chemical bondings. These
principles explain why the unconventional high T_c superconductivity appears to
be such a rare but robust phenomena with its strict requirement on electronic
environment. The robust s-wave pairing also reveals that the current standard
effective models with only onsite interactions are not sufficient and a minimum
microscopic model must include strong nearest neighbor repulsive interactions
resulted from the d-d direct bondings to serves as a s-wave symmetry
stabilizer. Finally, the sign distribution of the superconducting order
parameters in the reciprocal space is simply a consequence of the form factors
given by the leading short-range pairings. The sign change of superconducting
order parameters on Fermi surfaces is not a necessary requirement in
repulsive-interaction-driven high T_c mechanism. The results will guide us to
search for new electronic structure that supports high T_c superconductivity.