It is well known that, when analyzed at the light of current synthesis model
predictions, variations in the physical properties of single stellar
populations (e.g. age, metallicity, initial mass function, element abundance
ratios) may have a similar effect in their integrated spectral energy
distributions. The confusion is even worsened when more realistic scenarios,
i.e. composite star formation histories, are considered. This is, in fact, one
of the major problems when facing the study of stellar populations in star
clusters and galaxies. Typically, the observational efforts have been aimed to
find the most appropriate spectroscopic indicators in order to avoid, as far as
possible, degeneracies in the parameter space. However, from a practical point
of view, the most suited observables are not, necessarily, those that provide
more orthogonality in that parameter space, but those that give the best
balance between parameter degeneracy and sensitivity to signal-to-noise ratio
per Angstrom, SN_A. In order to achieve the minimum combined total error in the
derived physical parameters, this work discusses how the functional dependence
of typical line-strength indices and colors on SN_A allows to define a
suitability parameter which helps to obtain better realistic combinations of
spectroscopic data. As an example, we discuss in more detail the problem of
breaking the well known age-metallicity degeneracy in relatively old stellar
populations, comparing the suitability of different spectroscopic diagrams for
a simple stellar population of solar metallicity and 12 Gyr old.