We present two sequences of VLBI images of SN1993J in M81, with 24 images at
8.4 GHz and 19 images at 5.0 GHz, These sequences, from 50 d to ~9 yr after
shock breakout, show the evolution of the expanding radio shell of an exploded
star in detail. The images are all phase-referenced to the stable reference
point of the core of M81, allowing us to display them relative to the supernova
explosion center. At 50 d, SN1993J is almost unresolved with a radius of 520
AU. The shell structure becomes discernible at 175 d. The brightness of the
ridge of the projected shell is not uniform, but rather varies by a factor of
two, having a distinct maximum to the south-east and a minimum to the west.
Over the next ~350 d, this pattern appears to rotate counter-clockwise. After
two years, the structure becomes more complex with hot spots developing in the
east, south, and west. The pattern of modulation continues to change, and after
five years the three hot spots have shifted somewhat. After nine years, the
radio shell has expanded to a radius of 19,000 AU. The brightness in the center
of the images is lower than expected for an optically thin, spherical shell.
Absorption in the center is favored over a thinner shell in the back and/or
front. Allowing for absorption, we find that the thickness of the shell is
(25+/-3)% of its outer radius. We find no compact source in the central region
and conclude that any pulsar nebula in the center of SN 1993J is either much
fainter than the Crab or affected by remaining significant internal radio
absorption.