The Sun is a variable star whose magnetic activity and total irradiance vary
on a timescale of approximately 11 years. The current activity minimum has
attracted considerable interest because of its unusual duration and depth. This
raises the question: what might be happening beneath the surface where the
magnetic activity ultimately originates? The surface activity can be linked to
the conditions in the solar interior by the observation and analysis of the
frequencies of the Sun's natural seismic modes of oscillation - the p modes.
These seismic frequencies respond to changes in activity and are probes of
conditions within the Sun. The Birmingham Solar-Oscillations Network (BiSON)
has made measurements of p-mode frequencies over the last three solar activity
cycles, and so is in a unique position to explore the current unusual and
extended solar minimum. We show that the BiSON data reveal significant
variations of the p-mode frequencies during the current minimum. This is in
marked contrast to the surface activity observations, which show little
variation over the same period. The level of the minimum is significantly
deeper in the p-mode frequencies than in the surface observations. We observe a
quasi-biennial signal in the p-mode frequencies, which has not previously been
observed at mid- and low-activity levels. The stark differences in the behavior
of the frequencies and the surface activity measures point to activity-related
processes occurring in the solar interior, which are yet to reach the surface,
where they may be attenuated.