We discuss results stemming from observations of the white-light and [Fe XIV]
emission corona during the total eclipse of the Sun of 2008 August 1, in
Mongolia (Altaj region) and in Russia (Akademgorodok, Novosibirsk, Siberia).
Corresponding to the current extreme solar minimum, the white-light corona,
visible up to 20 solar radii, was of a transient type with well-pronounced
helmet streamers situated above a chain of prominences at position angles 48,
130, 241 and 322 degrees. A variety of coronal holes, filled with a number of
thin polar plumes, were seen around the poles. Furthering an original method of
image processing, stars up to 12 magnitude, a Kreutz-group comet (C/2008 O1),
and a coronal mass ejection (CME) were also detected, with the smallest
resolvable structures being of, and at some places even less than, 1 arcsec.
Differences, presumably motions, in the corona and prominences are seen even
with the 19-min time difference between our sites. In addition to the
high-resolution coronal images, which show the continuum corona (K-corona) that
results from electron scattering of photospheric light, images of the
overlapping green-emission-line (530.3 nm, [Fe XIV]) corona were obtained with
the help of two narrow-passband filters (centered on the line itself and for
the continuum in the vicinity of 529.1 nm, respectively), each with FWHM of
0.15 nm. Through solar observations, on whose scheduling and details we
consulted, with the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory, Hinode's XRT and SOT,
TRACE, and STEREO, as well as Wilcox Solar Observatory and SOHO/MDI
magnetograms, we set our eclipse observations in the context of the current
unusually low and prolonged solar minimum.