The Variable Star One-shot Project (VSOP) is aimed at (1) providing the
variability type and spectral type of all unstudied variable stars, (2)
process, publish, and make the data available as automatically as possible, and
(3) generate serendipitous discoveries. This first paper describes the project
itself, the acquisition of the data, the dataflow, the spectroscopic analysis
and the on-line availability of the fully calibrated and reduced data. We also
present the results on the 221 stars observed during the first semester of the
project. We used the high-resolution echelle spectrographs HARPS and FEROS in
the ESO La Silla Observatory (Chile) to survey known variable stars. Once
reduced by the dedicated pipelines, the radial velocities are determined from
cross correlation with synthetic template spectra, and the spectral types are
determined by an automatic minimum distance matching to synthetic spectra, with
traditional manual spectral typing cross-checks. The variability types are
determined by manually evaluating the available light curves and the
spectroscopy. In the future, a new automatic classifier, currently being
developed by members of the VSOP team, based on these spectroscopic data and on
the photometric classifier developed for the COROT and Gaia space missions,
will be used. We confirm or revise spectral types of 221 variable stars from
the GCVS. We identify 26 previously unknown multiple systems, among them
several visual binaries with spectroscopic binary individual components. We
present new individual results for the multiple systems V349 Vel and BC Gru,
for the composite spectrum star V4385 Sgr, for the T-Tauri star V1045 Sco, and
for DM Boo which we re-classify as a BY Draconis variable. The complete data
release can be accessed via the VSOP web site.