Direct detection of Milky Way wimps are discussed within the framework of
R-parity conserving SUGRA models with grand unification at M_G. Two questions
are discussed: what SUGRA models can account for the DAMA data if this data is
confirmed, and is the full SUGRA parameter space accessible to future planned
detectors. Experimental constraints of the Higgs mass bound, the b-> s\gamma
bound, relic density constraints (including all co-annihilation channels), etc.
are imposed. In addition, the effect of the possible muon g - 2 anomaly are
examined. For mSUGRA, we find that the Higgs mass and b\to s\gamma constraint
puts a lower bound m_{1/2} > (300 - 400) GeV (i.e. m_{\tilde\chi^0_1} > (120 -
160) GeV) for \tan\beta < 50, and thus the largest theoretical
neutralino-proton cross sections still lie significantly below the DAMA 3\sigma
lower bound. (Predictions for \tan\beta> 50 become sensitive to the precise
value of m_t and m_b.) If in addition one imposes the muon anomaly constraint,
\mu must be positive and an upper bound of m_{1/2}< 850 GeV for \tan\beta < 50
is obtained. More generally, if \mu >0 and m_{1/2} < 1 TeV, the cross sections
are >~ 10^{-10} pb, and hence this parameter space would be mostly accessible
to planned high sensitivity detectors. For non-minimal SUGRA models, the cross
sections can be considerably larger, and a simple SU(5) model with
non-universal soft breaking in the Higgs and third generation is seen to give
cross sections in the DAMA range for \tan\beta >~ 15 with m_{\tilde\chi^0_1} >
80 GeV, and minimum cross sections >~10^{-10} pb for \mu > 0.