In this review article, we present a systematic study of large volume type
IIB string compactifications that addresses several interesting issues in
string cosmology and string phenomenology within a single string
compactification scheme. The issues in string cosmology include obtaining a
metastable non-supersymmetric dS minimum without adding anti-D3 branes and
obtaining slow-roll inflation with the required number of 60 e-foldings along
with non-trivial non-Gaussianities and gravitational waves. For studying
cosmology and phenomenology within a single string compactification scheme, we
provide a geometric resolution to a long-standing tension between LVS cosmology
and LVS phenomenology after incorporating the effect of a single mobile
spacetime-flling D3-brane and stacks of fluxed D7-branes wrapping the "big"
divisor of a Swiss-Cheese CY. Further, using GLSM techniques and the toric data
for the Swiss-Cheese CY, we calculate geometric Kaehler potential in LVS limit
which are subdominant as compared to the tree level and (non-) perturbative
contributions. The issues in string phenomenology which has been addressed in
this review article, include realizing order one YM couplings, obtaining O(TeV)
gravitino and explicit calculation of various soft masses and couplings along
with the possibility of realizing fermionic mass scales of first two
generations, order eV neutrino mass scale and an estimate of the proton
lifetime. Apart from the issues related to (string) cosmology/phenomenology, we
also discuss some other interesting issues on implications of moduli
stabilization via inclusion of fluxes in the same type IIB compactification
scheme. These issues include the existence of area codes, `inverse-problem'
related to non-supersymmetric black hole attractors and existence of fake
superpotentials.