The results of long-term (two-year) experimental observations of frequencies
of two quartz resonators, one of which is placed in special magnetic system
that creates vector potential field, another (calibration one) is placed
outside this system, have been presented. Changes with different periodicity:
24 h, high-definite 7 days complex-form period, 27 days and year periods were
detected during the observation of differences of these quartz resonators
frequencies. The tangents which have been drawn to a terrestrial parallel at
the moment of near-daily observation of measured quantity minima form the
basic, most powerful subset of directions of tangents having a sharp corner
with dipole component of vector potential of the Sun' magnetic field in a range
from $50^\circ$ up to $80^\circ$ at annual rotation of laboratory around the
Sun together with the Earth. Also there are three subsets of directions
similarly drawn tangents fixed in physical space that coincide with similar
subsets of tangents directions drawn in the same way to points of radioactive
elements $\beta$-decay count rate minimum under the long $\beta$-decay research
during daily and annual rotation of laboratory together with the Earth. It is
necessary to point out that the form of the curves of quartzes frequencies
difference changes in scales of the 7-day's period with reliability coincides
next year, and observable minima of frequencies in co-phase points of space
coincide to within several tens minutes. It is shown that the amplitude of the
signal was $5\div10$ times lesser in the period from 20-th, July, till 20-th,
January, than from 20-th, January, till 20-th, July.