We study the possibility for detecting gamma-ray emission from galaxy
clusters. We consider 1) leptophilic models of dark matter (DM) annihilation
that include a Sommerfeld enhancement (SFE), 2) different representative
benchmark models of supersymmetric DM, and 3) cosmic ray (CR) induced pion
decay. Among all clusters/groups of a flux-limited X-ray sample, we predict
Virgo, Fornax and M49 to be the brightest DM sources and find a particularly
low CR-induced background for Fornax. For a minimum substructure mass given by
the DM free-streaming scale, cluster halos maximize the substructure boost for
which we find a factor above 1000. Since regions around the virial radius
dominate the annihilation flux of substructures, the resulting surface
brightness profiles are almost flat. This makes it very challenging to detect
this flux with imaging atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes. Assuming cold dark
matter with a substructure mass distribution down to an Earth mass and using
extended Fermi upper limits, we rule out the leptophilic models in their
present form in 28 clusters, and limit the boost from SFE in M49 and Fornax to
be < 5. This corresponds to a limit on SFE in the Milky Way of < 3, which is
too small to account for the increasing positron fraction with energy as seen
by PAMELA and challenges the DM interpretation. Alternatively, if SFE is
realized in Nature, this would imply a limiting substructure mass of M_lim >
10^4 M_sol - a problem for structure formation. Using individual cluster
observations, it will be challenging for Fermi to constrain our selection of DM
benchmark models without SFE. The Fermi upper limits are, however, closing in
on our predictions for the CR flux using an analytic model based on
cosmological hydrodynamical cluster simulations. We limit the CR-to-thermal
pressure in nearby bright galaxy clusters of the Fermi sample to < 10% and in
Norma and Coma to < 3%.