In a group testing scheme, a set of tests is designed to identify a small
number $t$ of defective items that are present among a large number $N$ of
items. Each test takes as input a group of items and produces a binary output
indicating whether any defective item is present in the group. In a
non-adaptive scheme the tests have to be designed in one-shot. In this setting,
designing a testing scheme is equivalent to the construction of a disjunct
matrix, an $M \times N$ binary matrix where the union of supports of any $t$
columns does not contain the support of any other column. In principle, one
wants to have such a matrix with minimum possible number $M$ of rows. In this
paper we consider the scenario where defective items are random and follow
simple probability distributions. In particular we consider the cases where 1)
each item can be defective independently with probability $\frac{t}{N}$ and 2)
each $t$-set of items can be defective with uniform probability. In both cases
our aim is to design a testing matrix that successfully identifies the set of
defectives with high probability. Both of these models have been studied in the
literature before and it is known that $O(t\log N)$ tests are necessary as well
as sufficient (via random coding) in both cases. Our main focus is explicit
deterministic construction of the test matrices amenable to above scenarios.
With our relaxed requirements, we show that using an explicit constant-weight
code we may achieve a number of tests equal to $O(t \frac{\log^2 N}{ \log t})$
for both the first and the second cases. While only away by a factor of
$\frac{\log N}{\log t}$ from the optimal number of tests, this is the best set
of parameters one can obtain from a deterministic construction and our main
contribution lies in relating the group testing properties to parameters of
constant-weight codes.