The mechanical stretchability is the magnitude of strain which a material can
suffer before it breaks. Materials with high mechanical stretchability, which
can reversibly withstand extreme mechanical deformation and cover arbitrary
surfaces and movable parts, are used for stretchable display devices, broadband
photonic tuning and aberration-free optical imaging. Strain can be utilised to
control the band structures of materials and can even be utilised to induce a
topological phase transition, driving the normal insulators to topological
non-trivial materials with non-zero Chern number or Z2 number. Here, we propose
a new two-dimensional topological material with ultra-high mechanical
stretchability - the ditch-like 2D arsenic. This new anisotropic material
possesses a large Poisson's ratio 1.049, which is larger than any other
reported inorganic materials and has a ultra-high stretchability 44% along the
armchair direction, which is unprecedent in inorganic materials as far as we
know. Its minimum bend radius of this material can be as low as 0.66 nm, which
is comparable to the radius of carbon-nanotube. Such mechanical properties make
this new material be a stretchable semiconductor which could be used to
construct flexible display devices and stretchable sensors. Axial strain will
make a conspicuous affect on the band structure of the system, and a proper
strain along the zigzag direction will drive the 2D arsenic into the
topological insulator in which the topological edge state can host
dissipation-less spin current and spin transfer toque, which are useful in
spintronics devices such as dissipation transistor, interconnect channels and
spin valve devices.