The halo occupation distribution (HOD) describes the relation between
galaxies and dark matter at the level of individual dark matter halos. The
properties of galaxies residing at the centers of halos differ from those of
satellite galaxies because of differences in their formation histories. Using a
smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) simulation and a semi-analytic (SA)
galaxy formation model, we examine the separate contributions of central and
satellite galaxies to the HOD, more specifically to the probability P(N|M) that
a halo of virial mass M contains N galaxies of a particular class. In agreement
with earlier results for dark matter subhalos, we find that the mean occupation
function <N> for galaxies above a baryonic mass threshold can be approximated
by a step function for central galaxies plus a power law for satellites, and
that the distribution of satellite numbers is close to Poisson at fixed halo
mass. For galaxy samples defined by different baryonic mass thresholds, there
is a nearly linear relation between the minimum halo mass Mmin required to host
a central galaxy and the mass M1 at which an average halo hosts one satellite,
with M1 ~ 14 Mmin (SPH) or M1 ~ 18 Mmin (SA). The mean occupation number of
young galaxies exhibits a local minimum at M ~ 10 Mmin where halos are too
massive to host a young central galaxy but not massive enough to host
satellites. We show that the conditional galaxy mass function at fixed halo
mass cannot be described by a Schechter function because central galaxies
produce a "bump" at high masses. We suggest parameterizations for the HOD and
the conditional luminosity function that can be used to model observed galaxy
clustering. Many of our predictions are in good agreement with recent results
inferred from clustering in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey.