It is well-known that in the disordered harmonic chain, heat conduction is
subballistic and the thermal conductivity ($\kappa$) scales asymptotically as
$\lim_{L\rightarrow\infty}\kappa\propto L^{0.5}$ where $L$ is the chain length.
However, using the nonequilibrium Green's function (NEGF) method and analytical
modeling, we show that there exists a critical crossover length scale ($L_{C}$)
below which ballistic heat conduction ($\kappa\propto L$) can coexist with mass
disorder. This ballistic-to-subballistic heat conduction crossover is connected
to the exponential attenuation of the phonon transmittance function $\Xi$ i.e.
$\Xi(\omega,L)=\exp[-L/\lambda(\omega)]$, where $\lambda$ is the
frequency-dependent attenuation length. The crossover length can be determined
from the minimum attenuation length which depends on the maximum transmitted
frequency. We numerically determine the dependence of the transmittance on
frequency and mass composition as well as derive a closed form estimate which
agrees closely with the numerical results. For the length-dependent thermal
conductance, we also derive a closed form expression which agrees closely with
numerical results and reproduces the ballistic to subballistic thermal
conduction crossover. This allows us to characterize the crossover in terms of
changes in the length, mass composition and temperature dependence, and also to
determine the conditions under which heat conduction enters the ballistic
regime. We describe how the mass composition can be modified to increase
ballistic heat conduction