We systematically surveyed period variations of superhumps in SU UMa-type
dwarf novae based on newly obtained data and past publications. In many
systems, the evolution of superhump period are found to be composed of three
distinct stages: early evolutionary stage with a longer superhump period,
middle stage with systematically varying periods, final stage with a shorter,
stable superhump period. During the middle stage, many systems with superhump
periods less than 0.08 d show positive period derivatives. Contrary to the
earlier claim, we found no clear evidence for variation of period derivatives
between superoutburst of the same object. We present an interpretation that the
lengthening of the superhump period is a result of outward propagation of the
eccentricity wave and is limited by the radius near the tidal truncation. We
interpret that late stage superhumps are rejuvenized excitation of 3:1
resonance when the superhumps in the outer disk is effectively quenched. Many
of WZ Sge-type dwarf novae showed long-enduring superhumps during the
post-superoutburst stage having periods longer than those during the main
superoutburst. The period derivatives in WZ Sge-type dwarf novae are found to
be strongly correlated with the fractional superhump excess, or consequently,
mass ratio. WZ Sge-type dwarf novae with a long-lasting rebrightening or with
multiple rebrightenings tend to have smaller period derivatives and are
excellent candidate for the systems around or after the period minimum of
evolution of cataclysmic variables (abridged).