We extend the standard model to a scalar-assisted vector-like fermion model
to realize electroweak baryogenesis. The extended Cabbibo-Kobayashi-Maskawa
matrix, due to the mixing among the vector-like quark and the standard model
quarks, provides additional sources of the CP violation. Together with the
enhancement from large vector-like quark mass, a large enough baryon-to-photon
ratio could be obtained. We investigate in detail the one-loop
temperature-dependent effective potential involving the Higgs field $\phi$ and
a new singlet scalar field $s$ in the on-shell scheme. The scalar potential
could generate either a tree-level or a thermally-induced barrier to separate
the broken minimum and the symmetric minimum, and thus realize the first order
phase transition through bubble nucleation. We perform a random parameter scan
and study the allowed parameter region that satisfy the strong first order
phase transition criteria $v_c \ge T_c$. According to the distinct features of
the phase transition in the two-dimension scalar field space, the allowed
parameter region are further separated into the following patterns:
single-branch barrier transition, inter-branch barrier transition and
multi-step transition. We utilized the shapes of the zero-derivative curves of
the potential to analyze the parameter preferences of these patterns. In the
single branch barrier transition, which is the most favored pattern, large
trilinear mass term between the Higgs boson and the scalar is preferred, for it
controls the width of the potential barrier. More interestingly, all the
patterns prefer large quartic scalar couplings, and moderate mixing angle
between the Higgs boson and the new scalar. This parameter region can be
constrained by the current Higgs coupling measurements at the LHC, and will be
further explored by the measurements of the Higgs pair production cross section
in future.