We explore the science power of space telescopes used to estimate the true
masses of known radial-velocity exoplanets by means of astrometry on direct
images. We translate a desired mass accuracy (+/10% in our example) into a
minimum goal for the signal-to-noise ratio, which implies a minimum exposure
time. When the planet is near a node, the mass measurement becomes difficult if
not impossible, because the apparent separation becomes decoupled from the
inclination angle of the orbit. The combination of this nodal effect with
considerations of solar and anti-solar pointing restrictions, photometric and
obscurational completeness, and image blurring due to orbital motion, severely
limits the observing opportunities, often to only brief intervals in a
five-year mission. We compare the science power of four missions, two with
external star shades, EXO-S and WFIRST-S, and two with internal coronagraphs,
EXO-C and WFIRST-C. The star shades out-perform the coronagraph in this science
program by about a factor of three. For both coronagraphs, the input catalog
includes 16 RV planets, of which EXO-C could possibly observe 10, of which 6
would have a 90% guarantee of success. Of the same 16 planets, WFIRST-C could
possibly observe 12, of which 9 are guaranteed. For both star-shade missions,
the input catalog includes 55 planets, of which EXO-S could possibly observe
37, of which 20 are guaranteed. Of the same 55, WFIRST-S could possibly observe
45, of which 30 are guaranteed. The longer spectroscopic exposure times should
be easily accommodated for the RV planets with guaranteed success.