Etymologically, in Latin expresses "educare", that means to bring out, or be
engaged in the infinite process of learning to present to the society as a
valuable citizen. However, unfortunately especially in third world countries,
education cannot be achieved due to, lack of inorganic and organic resources.
However, many third world countries have embraced the concepts such as One
Laptop per Child, facilitating the students to learn. The effective adaptation
of these concepts has being launched through many government and non-government
projects, providing inorganic resources. However, inorganic resources alone
cannot provide quality education, as learning needs assessment procedures,
feedback generators and trainers who could guide the students to gain
knowledge. This paper attempts to introduce an acceptable solution that can be
used to address facilitating resources to enhance the learning experience
through enabling organic resources such as teachers, instructors and trainers
on a remote mode through technology. This paper introduces a software system
that is used to design and distribute examinations and detect gestures of
students while answering remotely. The feature enables the teacher or
instructor to gain a better understanding about the learner's attitude when
taking the assessment. The content of the paper is organized to give the basic
idea of the system and it includes description of the system and practical
effectiveness of the system with evaluations from different views. A java
enabled computer with a webcam and internet access is the minimum requirements
to be able to use the proposed system. The development platform is based on
java, with the use of "Chilkat" to maintain an asynchronous connection with the
FTP server. "iGesture" and "Yuille" approach play major role in gesture
detection and recognition.