Measuring the depth of interaction in thick Cadmium-Zinc-Telluride (CZT)
detectors allows improved imaging and spectroscopy for hard X-ray imaging above
100 keV. The Energetic X-ray Imaging Survey Telescope (EXIST) will employ
relatively thick (5 - 10 mm) CZT detectors, which are required to perform the
broad energy-band sky survey. Interaction depth information is needed to
correct events to the detector "focal plane" for correct imaging and can be
used to improve the energy resolution of the detector at high energies by
allowing event-based corrections for incomplete charge collection. Background
rejection is also improved by allowing low energy events from the rear and
sides of the detector to be rejected. We present experimental results of
interaction depth sensing in a 5 mm thick pixellated Au-contact IMARAD CZT
detector. The depth sensing was done by making simultaneous measurements of
cathode and anode signals, where the interaction depth at a given energy is
proportional to the ratio of cathode/anode signals. We demonstrate how a simple
empirical formula describing the event distributions in the cathode/anode
signal space can dramatically improve the energy resolution. We also estimate
the energy and depth resolution of the detector as a function of the energy and
the interaction depth. We also show a depth-sensing prototype system currently
under development for EXIST in which cathode signals from 8, 16 or 32 crystals
can be read-out by a small multi-channel ASIC board that is vertically
edge-mounted on the cathode electrode along every second CZT crystal boundary.
This allows CZT crystals to be tiled contiguously with minimum impact on
throughput of incoming photons. The robust packaging is crucial in EXIST, which
will employ very large area imaging CZT detector arrays.