The 2dFGRS Percolation-Inferred Galaxy Group (2PIGG) catalogue of ~29000
objects is used to study the luminous content of galaxy systems of various
sizes. Mock galaxy catalogues constructed from cosmological simulations are
used to gauge the accuracy with which intrinsic group properties can be
recovered. A Schechter function is found to be a reasonable fit to the galaxy
luminosity functions in groups of different mass in the real data. The
characteristic luminosity L* is larger for more massive groups. However, the
mock data show that the shape of the recovered luminosity function is expected
to differ from the true shape, and this must be allowed for when interpreting
the data. The variation of halo mass-to-light ratio with group size is studied
in both these wavebands. A robust trend of increasing M/L with increasing group
luminosity is found in the 2PIGG data. From groups with L_bj=10^{10}Lsol to
those 100 times more luminous, the typical bj-band M/L increases by a factor of
5, whereas the rf-band M/L grows by a factor of 3.5. These trends agree well
with the simulations, which also predict a minimum M/L on a scale corresponding
to the Local Group. Our data indicate that if such a minimum exists, then it
must occur at L<~10^{10}Lsol, below the range accurately probed by the 2PIGG
catalogue. According to the mock data, the bj M/Ls of the largest groups are
expected to be approximately 1.1 times the global value. Assuming that this
correction applies to the real data yields an estimate of Omega_m=0.26+/-0.03
(statistical).