The energetic, eclipsing millisecond pulsar J1816+4510 was recently
discovered in a low-frequency radio survey with the Green Bank Telescope. With
an orbital period of 8.7 hr and minimum companion mass of 0.16 Msun it appears
to belong to an increasingly important class of pulsars that are ablating their
low-mass companions. We report the discovery of the gamma-ray counterpart to
this pulsar, and present a likely optical/ultraviolet counterpart as well.
Using the radio ephemeris we detect pulsations in the unclassified gamma-ray
source 2FGL J1816.5+4511, implying an efficiency of ~25% in converting the
pulsar's spin-down luminosity into gamma-rays and adding PSR J1816+4510 to the
large number of millisecond pulsars detected by Fermi. The likely optical/UV
counterpart was identified through position coincidence (<0.1") and unusual
colors. Assuming that it is the companion, with R=18.27+/-0.03 mag and
effective temperature >15,000 K it would be among the brightest and hottest of
low-mass pulsar companions, and appears qualitatively different from other
eclipsing pulsar systems. In particular, current data suggest that it is a
factor of two larger than most white dwarfs of its mass, but a factor of four
smaller than its Roche lobe. We discuss possible reasons for its high
temperature and odd size, and suggest that it recently underwent a violent
episode of mass loss. Regardless of origin, its brightness and the relative
unimportance of irradiation make it an ideal target for a mass, and hence a
neutron star mass, determination.