Oxygen (O) and carbon (C) have been inferred recently to be subsolar in
abundance from spectra of the atmosphere of the transiting hot Jupiter HD
189733b. Yet, the mass and radius of the planet coupled with structure models
indicate a strongly supersolar abundance of heavy elements in the interior of
this object. Here we explore the discrepancy between the large amount of heavy
elements suspected in the planet's interior and the paucity of volatiles
measured in its atmosphere. We describe the formation sequence of the icy
planetesimals formed beyond the snow line of the protoplanetary disk and
calculate the composition of ices ultimately accreted in the envelope of HD
189733b on its migration pathway. This allows us to reproduce the observed
volatile abundances by adjusting the mass of ices vaporized in the envelope.
The predicted elemental mixing ratios should be 0.15--0.3 times solar in the
envelope of HD 189733b if they are fitted to the recent O and C determinations.
However, our fit to the minimum mass of heavy elements predicted by internal
structure models gives elemental abundances that are 1.2--2.4 times oversolar
in the envelope of HD189733b. We propose that the most likely cause of this
discrepancy is irradiation from the central star leading to development of a
radiative zone in the planet's outer envelope which would induce gravitational
settling of elements. Hence, all strongly irradiated extrasolar planets should
present subsolar abundances of volatiles. We finally predict that the
abundances of nitrogen (N), sulfur (S) and phosphorus (P) are of $\sim$ $2.8
\times 10^{-5}$, $5.3 \times 10^{-6}$ and $1.8 \times 10^{-7}$ relative to
H$_2$, respectively in the atmosphere of HD 189733b.