Recently, it has been shown that electrons and positrons from dark matter
(DM) annihilations provide an excellent fit to the Fermi, PAMELA, and HESS
data. Using this DM model, which requires an enhancement of the annihilation
cross section over its standard value to match the observations, we show that
it immediately implies an observable level of gamma-ray emission for the Fermi
telescope from nearby galaxy clusters such as Virgo and Fornax. We show that
this DM model implies a peculiar feature from final state radiation that is a
distinctive signature of DM. Using the EGRET upper limit on the gamma-ray
emission from Virgo, we constrain the minimum mass of substructures within DM
halos to be > 5x10^-3 M_sun -- about four orders of magnitudes larger than the
expectation for cold dark matter. This limits the cutoff scale in the linear
matter power spectrum to k < 35/kpc which can be explained by e.g., warm dark
matter. Very near future Fermi observations will strongly constrain the minimum
mass to be > 10^3 M_sun: if the true substructure cutoff is much smaller than
this, the DM interpretation of the Fermi/PAMELA/HESS data must be wrong. To
address the problem of astrophysical foregrounds, we performed high-resolution,
cosmological simulations of galaxy clusters that include realistic cosmic ray
(CR) physics. We compute the dominating gamma-ray emission signal resulting
from hadronic CR interactions and find that it follows a universal spectrum and
spatial distribution. If we neglect the anomalous enhancement factor and assume
standard values for the cross section and minimum subhalo mass, the same model
of DM predicts comparable levels of the gamma-ray emission from DM
annihilations and CR interactions. This suggests that spectral subtraction
techniques could be applied to detect the annihilation signal.