We consider the problem of energy-efficient point-to-point transmission of
delay-sensitive data (e.g. multimedia data) over a fading channel. Existing
research on this topic utilizes either physical-layer centric solutions, namely
power-control and adaptive modulation and coding (AMC), or system-level
solutions based on dynamic power management (DPM); however, there is currently
no rigorous and unified framework for simultaneously utilizing both
physical-layer centric and system-level techniques to achieve the minimum
possible energy consumption, under delay constraints, in the presence of
stochastic and a priori unknown traffic and channel conditions. In this report,
we propose such a framework. We formulate the stochastic optimization problem
as a Markov decision process (MDP) and solve it online using reinforcement
learning. The advantages of the proposed online method are that (i) it does not
require a priori knowledge of the traffic arrival and channel statistics to
determine the jointly optimal power-control, AMC, and DPM policies; (ii) it
exploits partial information about the system so that less information needs to
be learned than when using conventional reinforcement learning algorithms; and
(iii) it obviates the need for action exploration, which severely limits the
adaptation speed and run-time performance of conventional reinforcement
learning algorithms. Our results show that the proposed learning algorithms can
converge up to two orders of magnitude faster than a state-of-the-art learning
algorithm for physical layer power-control and up to three orders of magnitude
faster than conventional reinforcement learning algorithms.