The paper has a threefold purpose. The first purpose is to present an
explicit description of expanded cyclic codes defined in $\GF(q^m)$. The
proposed explicit construction of expanded generator matrix and expanded parity
check matrix maintains the symbol-wise algebraic structure and thus keeps many
important original characteristics. The second purpose of this paper is to
identify a class of constant-weight cyclic codes. Specifically, we show that a
well-known class of $q$-ary BCH codes excluding the all-zero codeword are
constant-weight cyclic codes. Moreover, we show this class of codes achieve the
Plotkin bound. The last purpose of the paper is to characterize expanded cyclic
codes utilizing the proposed expanded generator matrix and parity check matrix.
We characterize the properties of component codewords of a codeword and
particularly identify the precise conditions under which a codeword can be
represented by a subbasis. Our developments reveal an alternative while more
general view on the subspace subcodes of Reed-Solomon codes. With the new
insights, we present an improved lower bound on the minimum distance of an
expanded cyclic code by exploiting the generalized concatenated structure. We
also show that the fixed-rate binary expanded Reed-Solomon codes are
asymptotically "bad", in the sense that the ratio of minimum distance over code
length diminishes with code length going to infinity. It overturns the
prevalent conjecture that they are "good" codes and deviates from the ensemble
of generalized Reed-Solomon codes which asymptotically achieves the
Gilbert-Varshamov bound.