(Abridged) Using an efficient computational approach, we have reconstructed
the structure of the dust cloud in the Solar system between 0.5 and 100 AU
produced by the Kuiper belt objects. Our simulations offer a 3-D physical model
of the `kuiperoidal' dust cloud based on the distribution of 280 dust particle
trajectories produced by 100 known Kuiper belt objects ; the resulting 3-D grid
consists of $1.9\times 10^6$ cells containing $1.2\times 10^{11}$ particle
positions. The following processes that influence the dust particle dynamics
are taken into account: 1) gravitational scattering on the eight planets
(neglecting Pluto); 2) planetary resonances; 3) radiation pressure; and 4) the
Poynting-Robertson (P-R) and solar wind drags. We find the dust distribution
highly non-uniform: there is a minimum in the kuiperoidal dust between Mars and
Jupiter, after which both the column and number densities of kuiperoidal dust
sharply increase with heliocentric distance between 5 and 10 AU, and then form
a plateau between 10 and 50 AU. Between 25 and 45 AU, there is an appreciable
concentration of kuiperoidal dust in the form of a broad belt of mostly
resonant particles associated with Neptune. In fact, each giant planet
possesses its own circumsolar dust belt consisting of both resonant and
gravitationally scattered particles. As with the cometary belts simulated in
our related papers (Ozernoy, Gorkavyi, & Taidakova 2000a,b), we reveal a
complex resonant structure of the dust belts containing rich families of
resonant peaks and gaps. An important result is that both the column and number
dust density are more or less flat between 10 and 50 AU, which might explain
the surprising data obtained by Pioneers 10 & 11 and Voyager that the dust
number density remains approximately distance-independent in this region.