Thermal infra-red (IR) images focus on changes of temperature distribution on
facial muscles and blood vessels. These temperature changes can be regarded as
texture features of images. A comparative study of face recognition methods
working in thermal spectrum is carried out in this paper. In these study two
local-matching methods based on Haar wavelet transform and Local Binary Pattern
(LBP) are analyzed. Wavelet transform is a good tool to analyze multi-scale,
multi-direction changes of texture. Local binary patterns (LBP) are a type of
feature used for classification in computer vision. Firstly, human thermal IR
face image is preprocessed and cropped the face region only from the entire
image. Secondly, two different approaches are used to extract the features from
the cropped face region. In the first approach, the training images and the
test images are processed with Haar wavelet transform and the LL band and the
average of LH/HL/HH bands sub-images are created for each face image. Then a
total confidence matrix is formed for each face image by taking a weighted sum
of the corresponding pixel values of the LL band and average band. For LBP
feature extraction, each of the face images in training and test datasets is
divided into 161 numbers of sub images, each of size 8X8 pixels. For each such
sub images, LBP features are extracted which are concatenated in row wise
manner. PCA is performed separately on the individual feature set for
dimensionality reeducation. Finally two different classifiers are used to
classify face images. One such classifier multi-layer feed forward neural
network and another classifier is minimum distance classifier. The Experiments
have been performed on the database created at our own laboratory and Terravic
Facial IR Database.