If $\mathcal{F}$ is a family of graphs then the Tur\'an density of
$\mathcal{F}$ is determined by the minimum chromatic number of the members of
$\mathcal{F}$.
  The situation for Tur\'an densities of 3-graphs is far more complex and still
very unclear. Our aim in this paper is to present new exact Tur\'an densities
for individual and finite families of 3-graphs, in many cases we are also able
to give corresponding stability results. As well as providing new examples of
individual 3-graphs with Tur\'an densities equal to 2/9,4/9,5/9 and 3/4 we also
give examples of irrational Tur\'an densities for finite families of 3-graphs,
disproving a conjecture of Chung and Graham. (Pikhurko has independently
disproved this conjecture by a very different method.)
  A central question in this area, known as Tur\'an's problem, is to determine
the Tur\'an density of $K_4^{(3)}=\{123,124, 134, 234\}$. Tur\'an conjectured
that this should be 5/9. Razborov [On 3-hypergraphs with forbidden 4-vertex
configurations, in SIAM J. Disc. Math. 24 (2010), 946-963] showed that if we
consider the induced Tur\'an problem forbidding $K_4^{(3)}$ and $E_1$, the
3-graph with 4 vertices and a single edge, then the Tur\'an density is indeed
5/9. We give some new non-induced results of a similar nature, in particular we
show that $\pi(K_4^{(3)},H)=5/9$ for a 3-graph $H$ satisfying $\pi(H)=3/4$.
  We end with a number of open questions focusing mainly on the topic of which
values can occur as Tur\'an densities.
  Our work is mainly computational, making use of Razborov's flag algebra
framework. However all proofs are exact in the sense that they can be verified
without the use of any floating point operations. Indeed all verifying
computations use only integer operations, working either over $\mathbb{Q}$ or
in the case of irrational Tur\'an densities over an appropriate quadratic
extension of $\mathbb{Q}$.