New high resolution 6 cm observations have been made on Cepheus A using
MERLIN, and combined with new VLA observations at 3.7 cm. Angular resolution
with the latter was 200 mas, and with MERLIN was 60 mas, except for isolated
unresolved sources where 33 mas was achieved. Unresolved objects at 60 mas were
observed in Sources 2, 3, and in particular 9 which also was not resolved at 33
mas. There is no evidence for any other object as small as this with any
significant flux density, although Source 8 was quiescent at the time. The
upper limit to the size of Source 9 sets a minimum brightness temperature of
4.3 $\times$ 10$^5$K, and adds credence to a previous suggestion that it is a
gyrosynchrotron source. The compact objects of Sources 2 and 3 are thought to
be produced by mass outflow from stars, which could be of spectral type B0 -
B1, but this is uncertain. There is a discussion regarding the powerhouse for
the molecular outflow. Sources 8 and 9, which are the highly time dependent
objects, appear at the centre of the disruption of the high density gas, and
their estimated high temperature of 10$^7$ - 10$^8$K indicates that they could
produce high velocity winds. On the other hand, the OH masers surrounding
Source 2(ii) show an outward velocity of about 10 km s${-1}$, which is small,
but higher velocity winds could tunnel through adjacent spaces, and even be
responsible for the 300 km s${-1}$ bullet of Source 7. An extrapolation of the
orthogonals to the IR polarization vectors are not accurate enough to pinpoint
the source of the IR radiation, but it is estimated that Sources 2(ii) and
3(d)(ii) could