A Ginzburg-Landau theory is developed for unconventional superconductors with
the three relevant singlet pairing channels. Various consequences of the
sub-dominant channels (i.e., s- and d_{xy}-channels) are examined in detail.
(1) In the case of a d_{x^2-y^2}+is-wave superconductor, The structure of a
single vortex above and below T_{DS} is four-fold and two-fold symmetric,
respectively. (2) In the case of a d_{x^2-y^2}+id_{xy}-wave superconductor,
there is also a second order zero-field phase transition from the pure
d_{x^2-y^2}-phase to the Time-reversal-symmetry-breaking
d_{x^2-y^2}+id_{xy}-wave phase at the temperature T_{DD'}. But the subdominant
phase can (not) be induced by vortices above T_{DD'}. Below the time-reversal-
symmetry-breaking transition, the sub-dominant phase in the mixed state is
nontrivial: it survives at low fields, but may disappear above a field
(increasing with decreasing temperature) presumably via a first-order
transition. (3)By including the strong coupling effects, a
time-reversal-symmetry -breaking coupling term between the d_{x^2-y^2}- and
d_{xy}-waves is found to have significant effects on the low temperature
behavior of d_{x^2-y^2}+id_{xy} superconductors. In a magnetic field, a
d_{x^2-y^2}+id_{xy} state is always established, but the field-dependence of
d_{xy}-amplitude above T_{DD'} is different from that below T_{DD'}. Above but
not very close to T_{DD'}, the induced minimum gap Delta_0 proportional to
B/(T-T_{DD'}).