We propose a new method to reconstruct the structure of accretion disks in
dwarf novae using multi-band light curves of early superhumps. Our model
assumes that early superhumps are caused by the rotation effect of
non-axisymmetrically flaring disks. We have developed a Bayesian model for this
reconstruction, in which a smoother disk-structure tends to have a higher prior
probability. We analyzed simultaneous optical and near-infrared photometric
data of early superhumps of the dwarf nova, V455 And using this technique. The
reconstructed disk has two flaring parts in the outermost region of the disk.
These parts are responsible for the primary and secondary maxima of the light
curves. The height-to-radius ratio is h/r=0.20-0.25 in the outermost region. In
addition to the outermost flaring structures, flaring arm-like patterns can be
seen in an inner region of the reconstructed disk. The overall profile of the
reconstructed disk is reminiscent of the disk structure that is deformed by the
tidal effect. However, an inner arm-like pattern, which is responsible for the
secondary minimum in the light curve, cannot be reproduced only by the tidal
effect. It implies the presence of another mechanism that deforms the disk
structure. Alternatively, the temperature distribution of the disk could be
non-axisymmetric. We demonstrate that the disk structure with weaker arm-like
patterns is optimal in the model including the irradiation effect. However, the
strongly irradiated disk gives quite blue colors, which may conflict with the
observation. Our results suggest that the amplitude of early superhumps depends
mainly on the height of the outermost flaring regions of the disk. We predict
that early superhumps can be detected with an amplitude of >0.02 mag in about
90% of WZ Sge stars.