Deep HST/NICMOS H (F160W) band observations of the z=1.96 quasar pair Q
1634+267A,B reveal no signs of a lens galaxy to a 1 sigma threshold of
approximately 22.5 mag. The minimum luminosity for a normal lens galaxy would
be a 6L_* galaxy at z > 0.5, which is 650 times greater than our detection
threshold. Our observation constrains the infrared mass-to-light ratio of any
putative, early-type, lens galaxy to (M/L)_H > 690h_65 (1200h_65) for
Omega_0=0.1 (1.0) and H_0=65h_65 km/s/Mpc. We would expect to detect a galaxy
somewhere in the field because of the very strong Mg II absorption lines at
z=1.1262 in the Q 1634+267 A spectrum, but the HST H-band, I-band (F785LP) and
V-band (F555W) images require that any associated galaxy be very under-luminous
less than 0.1 L^*_H (1.0 L^*_I) if it lies within less than 40 h^{-1} (100
h^{-1}) kpc from Q 1634+267 A,B.
  While the large image separation (3.86 arcsec) and the lack of a lens galaxy
strongly favor interpreting Q 1634+267A,B as a binary quasar system, the
spectral similarity remains a puzzle. We estimate that at most 0.06% of
randomly selected quasar pairs would have spectra as similar to each other as
the spectra of Q 1634+267 A and B. Moreover, spectral similarities observed for
the 14 quasar pairs are significantly greater than would be expected for an
equivalent sample of randomly selected field quasars. Depending on how strictly
we define similarity, we estimate that only 0.01--3% of randomly drawn samples
of 14 quasar pairs would have as many similar pairs as the observational
sample.