Density evolution is one of the most powerful analytical tools for
low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes and graph codes with message passing
decoding algorithms. With channel symmetry as one of its fundamental
assumptions, density evolution (DE) has been widely and successfully applied to
different channels, including binary erasure channels, binary symmetric
channels, binary additive white Gaussian noise channels, etc. This paper
generalizes density evolution for non-symmetric memoryless channels, which in
turn broadens the applications to general memoryless channels, e.g. z-channels,
composite white Gaussian noise channels, etc. The central theorem underpinning
this generalization is the convergence to perfect projection for any fixed size
supporting tree. A new iterative formula of the same complexity is then
presented and the necessary theorems for the performance concentration theorems
are developed. Several properties of the new density evolution method are
explored, including stability results for general asymmetric memoryless
channels. Simulations, code optimizations, and possible new applications
suggested by this new density evolution method are also provided. This result
is also used to prove the typicality of linear LDPC codes among the coset code
ensemble when the minimum check node degree is sufficiently large. It is shown
that the convergence to perfect projection is essential to the belief
propagation algorithm even when only symmetric channels are considered. Hence
the proof of the convergence to perfect projection serves also as a completion
of the theory of classical density evolution for symmetric memoryless channels.