We present new spectroscopic and photometric observations of the young
Galactic open cluster Westerlund 1 (Wd 1) that reveal a unique population of
massive evolved stars. We identify ~200 cluster members and present
spectroscopic classifications for ~25% of these. We find that all stars so
classified are unambiguously post-Main Sequence objects, consistent with an
apparent lack of an identifiable Main Sequence in our photometric data to V~20.
We are able to identify rich populations of Wolf Rayet stars, OB supergiants
and short lived transitional objects. Of these, the latter group consists of
both hot (Luminous Blue Variable and extreme B supergiants) and cool (Yellow
Hypergiant and Red Supergiant) objects - we find that half the known Galactic
population of YHGs resides within Wd1. We obtain a mean V-M_V ~25 mag from the
cluster Yellow Hypergiants, implying a Main Sequence turnoff at or below M_V
=-5 (O7 V or later). Based solely on the masses inferred for the 53
spectroscopically classified stars, we determine an absolute minimum mass of
\~1.5 x 10^3 Msun for Wd 1. However, considering the complete photometrically
and spectroscopically selected cluster population and adopting a Kroupa IMF we
infer a likely mass for Wd 1 of ~10^5 Msun, noting that inevitable source
confusion and incompleteness are likely to render this an underestimate. As
such, Wd 1 is the most massive compact young cluster yet identified in the
Local Group, with a mass exceeding that of Galactic Centre clusters such as the
Arches and Quintuplet. Indeed, the luminosity, inferred mass and compact nature
of Wd 1 are comparable with those of Super Star Clusters - previously
identified only in external galaxies - and is consistent with expectations for
a Globular Cluster progenitor.