We review the salient features of two advanced nodes of an 8-Nb-layer fully
planarized process developed recently at MIT Lincoln Laboratory for fabricating
Single Flux Quantum(SFQ) digital circuits with very large scale integration on
200-mm wafers: the SFQ4ee and SFQ5ee nodes, where 'ee' denotes the process is
tuned for energy efficient SFQ circuits. The former has eight superconducting
layers with 0.5 {\mu}m minimum feature size and a 2 {\Omega}/sq Mo layer for
circuit resistors. The latter has nine superconducting layers: eight Nb wiring
layers with the minimum feature size of 350 nm and a thin superconducting MoNx
layer (Tc ~ 7.5 K) with high kinetic inductance (about 8 pH/sq) for forming
compact inductors. A nonsuperconducting (Tc < 2 K) MoNx layer with lower
nitrogen content is used for 6 {\Omega}/sq planar resistors for shunting and
biasing of Josephson junctions. Another resistive layer is added to form
interlayer, sandwich-type resistors of m{\Omega} range for releasing unwanted
flux quanta from superconducting loops of logic cells. Both process nodes use
Au/Pt/Ti contact metallization for chip packaging. The technology utilizes one
layer of Nb/AlOx-Al/Nb JJs with critical current density, Jc of 100
{\mu}A/{\mu}m^2 and minimum diameter of 700 nm. Circuit patterns are defined by
248-nm photolithography and high density plasma etching. All circuit layers are
fully planarized using chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) of SiO2
interlayer dielectric. The following results and topics are presented and
discussed: the effect of surface topography under the JJs on the their
properties and repeatability, critical current and Jc targeting, effect of
hydrogen dissolved in Nb, MoNx properties for the resistor layer and for high
kinetic inductance layer, technology of m{\Omega}-range resistors.