Most stars form in embedded clusters. Stellar flybys may affect the orbital
architecture of the systems by exciting the eccentricity and causing dynamical
instability. Since, incidentally, the timescale over which a cluster loses its
gaseous component and begins to disperse is comparable to the circumstellar
disk lifetime, we expect that closer, and more perturbing, stellar flybys occur
when the planets are still embedded in their birth disk. We investigate the
effects of the disk on the dynamics of planets after the stellar encounter to
test whether it can damp the eccentricity and return the planetary system to a
non-excited state. We use the hydrodynamical code FARGO to study the
disk+planet(s) system during and after the stellar encounter in the context of
evolved disk models whose superficial density is 10 times lower than that of
the Minimum Mass Solar Nebula. The numerical simulations show that the planet
eccentricity, excited during a close stellar flyby, is damped on a short
timescale (~ 10 Kyr) in spite of the disk low initial density and subsequent
tidal truncation. This damping is effective also for a system of 3 giant
planets and the effects of the dynamical instability induced by the passing
star are quickly absorbed. If the circumstellar disk is still present around
the star during a stellar flyby, a planet (or a planetary system) is returned
to a non-excited state on a short timescale. This does not mean that stellar
encounters do not affect the evolution of planets, but they do it in a subtle
way with a short period of agitated dynamical evolution. At the end of it, the
system resumes a quiet evolution and the planetary orbits are circularized by
the interaction with the disk.