K-edge imaging is commonly used for viewing contrast pharmaceuticals in a
variety of multi-energy x-ray imaging techniques, ranging from dual-energy and
spectral computed tomography to fluoroscopy. When looking for the K-edge signal
of a specific contrast, by taking measurements either side of the K-edge, it is
found that the K-edge is not always observable for low concentrations. We have
also observed that the ability to see the K-edge is unit dependent - a K-edge
that is not observable in computed tomography (CT) reconstructed linear
attenuation units can often be made visible by converting to Hounsfield units.
  This paper presents an investigation of this K-edge hiding phenomenon. We
conclude that if a multi-energy x-ray measurement of any K-edge material
contains a signal of any other material, then there will be a positive
concentration of that K-edge material below which its K-edge cannot be observed
without extracting the K-edge signal through means of basis decomposition.
Mathematical descriptions of this limiting minimum concentration is provided in
three cases - multi-energy radiographic projection images; and reconstructed
multi-energy CT images for both linear attenuation and Hounsfield units. Two
important properties of this limiting concentration are provided: the minimum
concentration for Hounsfield units is always strictly less than the minimum
concentration for linear attenuation; and the minimum concentration for
radiographic projections will typically be much larger than the minimum
concentration for reconstructed linear attenuation. Finally experimental
observation of this phenomenon is presented using data collected by the MARS
spectral CT scanner equipped with a CdTe Medipix-3RX camera operating in
charge-summing mode, where it is also shown that the K-edge can be recovered
through basis decomposition.