Some massive stars possess strong magnetic fields that confine plasma in the
circumstellar environment. These \textit{magnetospheres} have been studied
spectroscopically, photometrically and, more recently, interferometrically.
Here we report on the first firm detection of a magnetosphere in continuum
linear polarization, as a result of monitoring of $\sigma$\,Ori\,E at the Pico
dos Dias Observatory. {The non-zero intrinsic polarization indicates an
asymmetric structure, whose minor elongation axis is oriented $150\fdg0$ east
of the celestial north.} A modulation of the polarization was observed, with a
period of half of the rotation period, which supports the theoretical
prediction of the presence of two diametrally opposed, co-rotating blobs of
gas. A phase lag of -0.085 was detected between the polarization minimum and
the primary minimum of the light curve, suggestive of a complex shape of the
plasma clouds. We present a preliminary analysis of the data with the Rigidly
Rotating Magnetosphere model, which could not reproduce simultaneously the
photometric and polarimetric data. A toy model comprising two spherical
co-rotating blobs {joined by a thin disk} proved more successful in reproducing
the polarization modulation. {With this model we were able to determine that
the total scattering mass of the thin disk is similar to the mass of the blobs
($2M_{\rm b}/M_{\rm d}=1.2$) and that the blobs are rotating counterclockwise
on the plane of the sky.} This result shows that polarimetry can provide a
diagnostic of the geometry of clouds, which will serve as an important
constraint for {improving} the Rigidly Rotating Magnetosphere model.