We report a comprehensive review of the UV-visible spectrum and rotational
lightcurve of Vesta combining new observations by Hubble Space Telescope and
Swift Gamma-ray Burst Observatory with archival International Ultraviolet
Explorer observations. The geometric albedos of Vesta from 220 nm to 953 nm are
derived by carefully comparing these observations from various instruments at
different times and observing geometries. Vesta has a rotationally averaged
geometric albedo of 0.09 at 250 nm, 0.14 at 300 nm, 0.26 at 373 nm, 0.38 at 673
nm, and 0.30 at 950 nm. The linear spectral slope as measured between 240 and
320 nm in the ultraviolet displays a sharp minimum near a sub-Earth longitude
of 20^{\circ}, and maximum in the eastern hemisphere. This is consistent with
the longitudinal distribution of the spectral slope in the visible wavelength.
The photometric uncertainty in the ultraviolet is ~20%, and in the visible
wavelengths it is better than 10%. The amplitude of Vesta's rotational
lightcurves is ~10% throughout the range of wavelengths we observed, but is
smaller at 950 nm (~6%) near the 1-\mum band center. Contrary to earlier
reports, we found no evidence for any difference between the phasing of the
ultraviolet and visible/near-infrared lightcurves with respect to sub-Earth
longitude. Vesta's average spectrum between 220 and 950 nm can well be
described by measured reflectance spectra of fine particle howardite-like
materials of basaltic achondrite meteorites. Combining this with the in-phase
behavior of the ultraviolet, visible, and near-infrared lightcurves, and the
spectral slopes with respect to the rotational phase, we conclude that there is
no global ultraviolet/visible reversal on Vesta. Consequently, this implies a
lack of global space weathering on Vesta, as previously inferred from
visible-near-infrared data.