In the context of No-Scale F-SU(5), a model defined by the convergence of the
F-lipped SU(5) Grand Unified Theory, two pairs of hypothetical TeV scale
vector-like supersymmetric multiplets with origins in F-theory, and the
dynamically established boundary conditions of No-Scale Supergravity, we
predict that the lightest CP-even Higgs boson mass lies within the range of
119.0 GeV to 123.5 GeV, exclusive of the vector-like particle contribution to
the mass. With reports by the CMS, ATLAS, CDF, and D0 Collaborations detailing
enticing statistical excesses in the vicinity of 120 GeV in searches for the
Standard Model Higgs boson, all signs point to an imminent discovery. While
basic supersymmetric constructions such as mSUGRA and the CMSSM have already
suffered overwhelming reductions in viable parameterization during the LHC's
initial year of operation, about 80% of the original No-Scale F-SU(5) model
space remains viable after analysis of the first 1.1 fb^{-1} of integrated
luminosity. This model is moreover capable of handily explaining the small
excesses recently reported in the CMS multijet supersymmetry search, and also
features a highly favorable "golden" subspace which may simultaneously account
for the key rare process limits on the muon anomalous magnetic moment (g - 2)
and the branching ratio of the flavor-changing neutral current decay b to
s\gamma. In addition, the isolated mass parameter responsible for the global
particle mass normalization, the gaugino boundary mass M_{1/2}, is dynamically
determined at a secondary local minimization of the minimum of the Higgs
potential V_{min}, in a manner which is deeply consistent with all precision
measurements at the physical electroweak scale.