We study the performance of the euro/Swiss franc exchange rate in the
extraordinary period from September 6, 2011 and January 15, 2015 when the Swiss
National Bank enforced a minimum exchange rate of 1.20 Swiss francs per euro.
Within the general framework built on geometric Brownian motions (GBM), the
first-order effect of such a steric constraint would enter a priori in the form
of a repulsive entropic force associated with the paths crossing the barrier
that are forbidden. It turns out that this naive theory is proved empirically
to be completely mistaken. The clue is to realise that the random walk nature
of financial prices results from the continuous anticipations of traders about
future opportunities, whose aggregate actions translate into an approximate
efficient market with almost no arbitrage opportunities. With the Swiss
National Bank stated commitment to enforce the barrier, traders's anticipation
of this action leads to a volatility of the exchange rate that depends on the
distance to the barrier. This effect described by Krugman's model is supported
by non-parametric measurements of the conditional drift and volatility from the
data. Despite the obvious differences between "brainless" physical Brownian
motions and complex financial Brownian motions resulting from the aggregated
investments of anticipating agents, we show that the two systems can be
described with the same mathematics after all. Using a recently proposed
extended analogy in terms of a colloidal Brownian particle embedded in a fluid
of molecules associated with the underlying order book, we derive that, close
to the restricting boundary, the dynamics of both systems is described by a
stochastic differential equation with a very small constant drift and a linear
diffusion coefficient.