Stellar activity cycles are the manifestation of dynamo process running in
the stellar interiors. They have been observed during years to decades thanks
to the measurement of stellar magnetic proxies at the surface of the stars such
as the chromospheric and X-ray emissions, and the measurement of the magnetic
field with spectropolarimetry. However, all of these measurements rely on
external features that cannot be visible during for example, a Maunder-type
minimum. With the advent of long observations provided by space asteroseismic
missions, it has been possible to pierce inside the stars and study their
properties. Moreover, the acoustic-mode properties are also perturbed by the
presence of these dynamos. We track the temporal variations of the amplitudes
and frequencies of acoustic modes allowing us to search for signature of
magnetic activity cycles, as has already been done in the Sun and in the CoRoT
target HD49933. We use asteroseimic tools and more classical spectroscopic
measurements performed with the NARVAL spectropolarimeter to check if there are
hints of any activity cycle in three solar-like stars observed continuously by
the CoRoT satellite: HD49385, HD181420, and HD52265.Our analysis gives very
small variation of the seismic parameters preventing us from detecting any
magnetic modulation. However we are able to provide a lower limit of any
magnetic-activity change in the three stars that should be longer than 120
days, which is the length of the time series. Moreover we computed the upper
limit for the line-of-sight magnetic field component. More seismic and
spectroscopic data would be required to have a firm detection in these stars.