Given a property of Boolean functions, what is the minimum number of queries
required to determine with high probability if an input function satisfies this
property? This is a fundamental question in Property Testing, where
traditionally the testing algorithm is allowed to pick its queries among the
entire set of inputs. Balcan et al. suggested restricting the tester to take
its queries from a smaller, typically random, subset of the inputs. This model
is called active testing, in resemblance of active learning. Active testing
gets more difficult as the size of candidate query set decreases, and the
extreme case is when it is exactly the number of queries performed, so the
algorithm has no choice. This is known as passive testing, or testing from
random examples.
  In their paper, Balcan et al. showed that active and passive testing of
dictator functions is as hard as learning them, and requires \Theta(log n)
queries (unlike the classic model, where O(1) queries suffice). We extend this
result to k-linear functions, proving that passive and active testing of them
requires \Theta(k log n) queries, assuming k is not too large. Other classes of
functions we consider are juntas, partially symmetric functions, linear
functions, and low degree polynomials. For linear functions we provide tight
bounds on the query complexity in both models (which asymptotically differ).
For juntas and partially symmetric functions we provide some lower and upper
bounds. When the functions depend on a constant number of variables, our
analysis for both families is asymptotically tight. Moreover, the family of
partially symmetric functions is the first example for which the query
complexities in all models are asymptotically different.
  Our methods combine algebraic, combinatorial, and probabilistic techniques,
including the Talagrand concentration inequality and the Erd\H{o}s--Rado
results on \Delta-systems.