The number of multi-planet systems known to be orbiting their host stars with
orbital periods that place them in mean motion resonances is growing. For the
most part, these systems are in first-order resonances and dynamical studies
have focused their efforts towards understanding the origin and evolution of
such dynamically resonant commensurabilities. We report here the discovery of
two super-Earths that are close to a second-order dynamical resonance, orbiting
the metal-poor ([Fe/H]=-0.43 dex) and inactive G2V star HD41248. We analysed 62
HARPS archival radial velocities for this star, that until now, had exhibited
no evidence for planetary companions. Using our new Bayesian Doppler signal
detection algorithm, we find two significant signals in the data, with periods
of 18.357 days and 25.648 days, indicating they could be part of a 7:5
second-order mean motion resonance. Both semi-amplitudes are below 3m/s and the
minimum masses of the pair are 12.3 and 8.6Mearth, respectively. Our
simulations found that apsidal alignment stabilizes the system, and even though
libration of the resonant angles was not seen, the system is affected by the
presence of the resonance and could yet occupy the 7:5 commensurability, which
would be the first planetary configuration in such a dynamical resonance. Given
the multitude of low-mass multiplanet systems that will be discovered in the
coming years, we expect more of these second-order resonant configurations will
emerge from the data, highlighting the need for a better understanding of the
dynamical interactions between forming planetesimals.