The influence of the Hall effect on the global stability of cool Kepler disks
under the influence of an axial magnetic field is considered. For sufficiently
large magnetic Reynolds numbers Rm the magnetorotational instability (MRI)
exists in a finite interval of magnetic field amplitudes, $B$_{min} < $B$ <
$B$_{max}. For Kepler disks the pure MRI needs both rather high Rm
(representing the needed electrical conductivity) as well as $B$_{min} of order
0.1 G. The magnetic field pattern resulting from our global and linear
calculations is of quadrupolar parity. For magnetic fields $antiparallel$ to
the rotation axis the Hall effect reduces the minimum magnetic Reynolds number
by about one order of magnitude. The $B$_{min}, however, is even (sightly)
increased (see Fig. 6). For magnetic fields $parallel$ to the rotation axis the
Hall effect drives its own instability without the action of the Lorentz force.
The corresponding critical magnetic Reynolds number proves to be larger with
Hall effect (Rm ~ 10) than without Hall effect (Rm ~ 7) so that the Hall effect
for parallel fields even disturbs the formation of MHD-instability in cool
protoplanetary disks. If the disk is supercritical then the main result of the
Hall effect for positive fields is the strong reduction of the minimum magnetic
field amplitude which is necessary to start the instability. Observations must
show whether in star-forming regions the rotation axis and the magnetic field
orientation are correlated or are anticorrelated. If the magnetic fields are
high enough then our model predicts the dominance of fields antiparallel to the
rotation axis.