Understanding the mechanism of nucleation of the stable phase inside the
metastable parent phase during a first order phase transition has been a
subject of outstanding interest in natural science. The problem becomes even
more challenging as the spinodal is approached. In this work, we have
undertaken extensive computer simulation studies to probe the molecular
mechanism for the onset of instability. We have constructed the free energy
surfaces of nucleation as a function of multiple reaction coordinates, both for
supercooled Lennard-Jones fluid and for 2- and 3-dimensional Ising models.
While the classical Becker-Doring (BD) picture of homogenous nucleation, that
assumes the growth of a single nucleus by single particle addition, holds good
at low to moderate supersaturation, the formation of the new stable phase
becomes more collective and spread over the whole system at large
supersaturation. As the spinodal curve is approached from the coexistence line,
the free energy, as a function of the size of the largest liquid-like cluster,
develops a minimum at a sub-critical cluster size. This minimum at intermediate
size is responsible for the barrier towards further growth of the nucleus at
large supersaturation. As the spinodal is approached closely, this minimum
gradually disappears and so does the free energy barrier for the cluster
growth. We find the emergence of an alternative free energy pathway (with a
barrier less than that in the BD picture) that involves participation of many
sub-critical liquid-like clusters and the growth of the stable phase is
promoted by a coalescence mechanism. Very close to the spinodal the free energy
surface becomes quite flat, the significance of a critical nucleus is lost and
the classical Becker-Doring picture of nucleation breaks down.