Ensemble methods have been shown to be an effective tool for solving
multi-label classification tasks. In the RAndom k-labELsets (RAKEL) algorithm,
each member of the ensemble is associated with a small randomly-selected subset
of k labels. Then, a single label classifier is trained according to each
combination of elements in the subset. In this paper we adopt a similar
approach, however, instead of randomly choosing subsets, we select the minimum
required subsets of k labels that cover all labels and meet additional
constraints such as coverage of inter-label correlations. Construction of the
cover is achieved by formulating the subset selection as a minimum set covering
problem (SCP) and solving it by using approximation algorithms. Every cover
needs only to be prepared once by offline algorithms. Once prepared, a cover
may be applied to the classification of any given multi-label dataset whose
properties conform with those of the cover. The contribution of this paper is
two-fold. First, we introduce SCP as a general framework for constructing label
covers while allowing the user to incorporate cover construction constraints.
We demonstrate the effectiveness of this framework by proposing two
construction constraints whose enforcement produces covers that improve the
prediction performance of random selection. Second, we provide theoretical
bounds that quantify the probabilities of random selection to produce covers
that meet the proposed construction criteria. The experimental results indicate
that the proposed methods improve multi-label classification accuracy and
stability compared with the RAKEL algorithm and to other state-of-the-art
algorithms.