Gamma-ray bursts (GRB) are extremely energetic events and produce highly
diverse light curves. Light curves are believed to be resulting from internal
shocks reflecting the activities of the GRB central engine. Hence their
temporal studies can potentially lead to the understanding of the GRB central
engine and its evolution. The light curve variability time scale is an
interesting parameter which most models attribute to a physical origin e.g.,
central engine activity, clumpy circumburst medium, or relativistic turbulence.
We develop a statistical method to estimate the GRB minimum variability time
scale (MVT) for long and short GRBs detected by GBM. We find that the MVT of
short bursts is distinctly shorter than that for long GRBs supprting the
possibility of a more compact central engine of the former. We find that MVT
estimated by this method is consistent with the shortest rise time of the
fitted pulses. Hence we use the fitted pulse rise times to study the evolution
of burst variability time scale. Variability time is in turn related to the
minimum bulk Lorentz factor. Using this we relate the GRB spectral evolution to
the evolution of the variability time scale. %Gamma-ray burst (GRB) light
curves are believed to result from internal shocks reflecting the activities of
the GRB central engine. %Hence their temporal deconvolution studies can
potentially lead to the understanding of the evolution of the minimum
variability %time scales which in turn is related to the minimum bulk Lorentz
factor. We relate the GRB spectral evolution to the evolution of the %minimum
variability time scale.