A wide range of interacting systems can be described by complex networks. A
common feature of such networks is that they consist of several communities or
modules, the degree of which may quantified as the \emph{modularity}. However,
even a random uncorrelated network, which has no obvious modular structure, has
a finite modularity due to the quenched disorder. For this reason, the
modularity of a given network is meaningful only when it is compared with that
of a randomized network with the same degree distribution. In this context, it
is important to calculate the modularity of a random uncorrelated network with
an arbitrary degree distribution. The modularity of a random network has been
calculated [Phys. Rev. E \textbf{76}, 015102 (2007)]; however, this was limited
to the case whereby the network was assumed to have only two communities, and
it is evident that the modularity should be calculated in general with $q(\geq
2)$ communities. Here, we calculate the modularity for $q$ communities by
evaluating the ground state energy of the $q$-state Potts Hamiltonian, based on
replica symmetric solutions assuming that the mean degree is large. We found
that the modularity is proportional to $\langle \sqrt{k} \rangle / \langle k
\rangle$ regardless of $q$ and that only the coefficient depends on $q$. In
particular, when the degree distribution follows a power law, the modularity is
proportional to $\langle k \rangle^{-1/2}$. Our analytical results are
confirmed by comparison with numerical simulations. Therefore, our results can
be used as reference values for real-world networks.