The magnetic cataclysmic variable DQ Herculis was observed with the Faint
Object Spectrograph onboard the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) over four
consecutive satellite orbits, including the first observation in the UV of DQ
Her through eclipse minimum. Strong emission in N V, C IV, Si IV, and He II and
weak emission in O I, S III, Ni II, N IV, Si III, and C III was seen. Time
resolved spectroscopy was obtained over 3 orbits with the G160L grating. At the
eclipse minimum, the UV continuum was completely eclipsed for < 5% of the
orbital period. This implies that the UV continuum emission region is very
compact. By contrast, none of the emission lines were completely eclipsed, most
notably C IV which dropped by only ~75%. DQ Her is known to have intermittent
pulsations in the optical and UV at a period of 71 s, due to the rotation of
the accreting white dwarf. As in our previous observations, the UV continuum
and the C IV emission show sporadic 71 s pulsations. The mechanism(s) which
determine the pulsation amplitudes are clearly complex. The strong emission
lines and continuum were auto-correlated during the first and third HST orbits
and all show a variability timescale of ~160 s. The intensities of these lines
were also cross-correlated with the continuum and show a strong correlation
with the continuum with a timelag of < 4 s. The data during the fourth HST
orbit were collected with the G190H grating (1600-2350 Angstroms with 1.5
Angstrom spectral resolution) in standard spectroscopy mode (240 s time
resolution). These observations resolve He II 1640 into a broad (1,400 km/s),
asymmetric line.