We present theoretical yields of H, $^{4}$He, $^{12}$C, $^{13}$C, $^{14}$N,
and $^{16}$O for stars with initial masses between 0.8 and 8 M$_{\odot}$ and
initial metallicities Z = 0.001, 0.004, 0.008, 0.02, and 0.04. We use the
evolutionary tracks of the Geneva group up to the early asymptotic giant
branch (AGB) in combination with a synthetic thermal-pulsing AGB evolution
model to follow in detail the chemical evolution and mass loss up to the end
of the AGB including the first, second, and third dredge-up phases. Most of
the relations used are metallicity dependent to make a realistic comparison
with stars of different initial abundances. The effect of Hot Bottom Burning
(HBB) is included in an approximate way. The free parameters in our
calculations are the mass loss scaling parameter $\eta_{AGB}$ for stars on
the AGB (using a Reimers law), the minimum core mass for dredge-up
M$_{c}^{min}$, and the third dredge-up efficiency $\lambda$. As derived from
previous extensive modeling, $\eta_{AGB}$ = 4, M$_{c}^{min}$ = 0.58 \mss, and
$\lambda = 0.75$ including HBB are in best agreement with observations of AGB
stars both in the Galactic disk and the Magellanic Clouds. We compare the
abundances predicted during the final stages of the AGB with those observed
in planetary nebulae in the Galactic disk and show that the model with the
aforementioned parameters is in good agreement with the observations. The
metallicity dependent yields of intermediate mass stars presented in this
paper are well suited for use in galactic chemical evolution models.