A molecular dynamics simulation is performed for a supercooled liquid of
rigid diatomic molecules. The time-dependent self and collective density
correlators of the molecular centers of mass are determined and compared with
the predictions of the ideal mode coupling theory (MCT) for simple liquids.
This is done in real as well as in momentum space. One of the main results is
the existence of a unique transition temperature T_c, where the dynamics
crosses over from an ergodic to a quasi-nonergodic behavior. The value for T_c
agrees with that found earlier for the orientational dynamics within the error
bars. In the beta- regime of MCT the factorization of space- and time
dependence is satisfactorily fulfilled for both types of correlations. The
first scaling law of ideal MCT holds in the von Schweidler regime, only, since
the validity of the critical law can not be confirmed, due to a strong
interference with the microscopic dynamics. In this first scaling regime a
consistent description within ideal MCT emerges only, if the next order
correction to the asymptotic law is taken into account. This correction is
almost negligible for q=q_max, the position of the main peak in the static
structure factor S(q), but becomes important for q=q_min, the position of its
first minimum. The second scaling law, i.e. the time-temperature superposition
principle, holds reasonably well for the self and collective density
correlators and different values for q. The alpha-relaxation times tau_q^(s)
and tau_q follow a power law in T-T_c over 2 -- 3 decades. The corresponding
exponent gamma is weakly q-dependent and is around 2.55. This value is in
agreement with the one predicted by MCT from the value of the von Schweidler
exponent but at variance with the corresponding exponent gamma