The black hole candidate, XTE J1752-223, was discovered in 2009 October when
it entered an outburst. We obtained radio data from the Australia Telescope
Compact Array for the duration of the ~9 month event. The lightcurves show that
the radio emission from the compact jet persisted for the duration of an
extended hard state and through the transition to the intermediate state. The
flux then rose rapidly by a factor of 10 and the radio source entered a series
of at least 7 maxima, the first of which was likely to be emission associated
with the compact jet. The subsequent 6 flares were accompanied by variable
behaviour in terms of radio spectrum, degree of linear polarisation, morphology
and associated X-ray behaviour. They were, however, remarkably similar in terms
of the estimated minimum power required to launch such an ejection event. We
compare the timing of radio peaks with the location of the ejecta, imaged by
contemporaneous VLBI experiments. We then discuss the mechanism behind the
events, in terms of whether discrete ejections is the most likely description
of the behaviour. One ejection, at least, appears to be travelling with
apparent superluminal motion. The range of properties, however, suggests that
mutiple mechanisms may be relevant and that at least some of the emission is
coming from shocked interactions amongst the ejecta and between the ejecta and
the interstellar medium. We also compare the radio flux density with the X-ray
source during the hard state and conclude that XTE J1752-223 is a
radio-weak/X-ray-bright outlier on the universal correlation for black hole
transient sources.