In the present work we propose an innovative estimation method for the
minimum Doppler factor and energy content of the gamma-ray emitting region of
quasar 3C 279, using a standard proton synchrotron blazar model and the
principles of automatic photon quenching. The latter becomes relevant for high
enough magnetic fields and results in spontaneous annihilation of gamma-rays.
The absorbed energy is then redistributed into electron-positron pairs and soft
radiation. We show that as quenching sets an upper value for the source
rest-frame gamma-ray luminosity, one has, by neccessity, to resort to Doppler
factors that lie above a certain value in order to explain the TeV
observations. The existence of this lower limit for the Doppler factor has also
implications on the energetics of the emitting region. In this aspect, the
proposed method can be regarded as an extension of the widely used one for
estimating the equipartition magnetic field using radio observations. In our
case, the leptonic synchrotron component is replaced by the proton synchrotron
emission and the radio by the VHE gamma-ray observations. We show specifically
that one can model the TeV observations by using parameter values that minimize
both the energy density and the jet power at the cost of high-values of the
Doppler factor. On the other hand, the modelling can also be done by using the
minimum possible Doppler factor; this, however, leads to a particle dominated
region and high jet power for a wide range of magnetic field values. Despite
the fact that we have focused on the case of 3C 279, our analysis can be of
relevance to all TeV blazars favoring hadronic modelling that have, moreover,
simultaneous X-ray observations.