The feasibility for the alpha decay and the heavy particle decay from the
even-even superheavy (SH) nuclei with Z = 116-124 have been studied within the
Coulomb and proximity potential model (CPPM). The Universal formula for cluster
decay (UNIV) of Poenaru et al., the Universal Decay Law (UDL) and the Scaling
Law of Horoi et al., has also been used for the evaluation of the decay half
lives. A comparison of our predicted half lives with the values evaluated using
these empirical formulas are in agreement with each other and hence CPPM could
be considered as a unified model for alpha and cluster decay studies. The
spontaneous fission half lives of the corresponding parents have also been
evaluated using the semi-empirical formula of Santhosh et al. Within our
fission model, we have studied cluster formation probability for various
clusters and the maximum cluster formation probability for the decay
accompanying $^{298}$114 reveals its doubly magic behavior. In the plots for
log_10(T_1/2) against the neutron number of the daughter in the corresponding
decay, the half life is found to be the minimum for the decay leading to
$^{298}$114 (Z = 114, N = 184) and this also indicate its doubly magic
behavior. Most of the predicted half lives are well within the present upper
limit for measurements and the computed alpha half lives for $^{290,292}$116
agrees well with the experimental data. We have thus confidently indicate
towards a new island for the cluster radioactivity around the superheavy
isotope $^{298}$114 and its neighbors and we hope to receive experimental
information about the cluster decay half lives of these considered SHs, hoping
to confirm the present calculations.