We tabulate the luminosities of the soft-to-hard state transitions of all
X-ray binaries for which there exist good X-ray flux measurements at the time
of the transition, good distance estimates, and good mass estimates for the
compact star. We show that the state transition luminosities are at about 1-4%
of the Eddington rate, markedly smaller than those typically quoted in the
literature, with a mean value of 2%. Only the black hole candidate GRO
J~1655-40 and the neutron star systems Aql X-1 and 4U 1728-34 have measured
state transition luminosities inconsistent with this value at the 1$\sigma$
level. GRO J~1655-40, in particular, shows a state transition luminosity below
the mean value for the other sources at the $4\sigma$ level. This result,
combined with the known inner disk inclination angle (the disk is nearly
parallel to the line of sight) from GRO J~1655-40's relativistic jets suggest
that the hard X-ray emitting region in GRO J~1655-40 can have a velocity of no
more than about $\beta=0.68$, with a most likely value of about $\beta=0.52$,
and a minimum speed of $\beta=0.45$, assuming that the variations in state
transition luminosities are solely due to relativistic beaming effects. The
variance in the state transition luminosities suggests an emission region with
a velocity of $\sim0.2c$. The results are discussed in terms of different
emission models for the low/hard state. We also discuss the implications for
measuring the dimensionless viscosity parameter $\alpha$. We also find that if
its state transitions occur at typical luminosities, then GX 339-4 is likely to
be at a distance of at least 7.6 kpc, much further than typically quoted
estimates.