Two models of a random digraph on $n$ vertices,
$D(n,\text{Prob}(\text{arc})=p)$ and $D(n,\text{number of arcs}=m)$ are
studied. In 1990, Karp for $D(n,p)$ and independently T. \L uczak for
$D(n,m=cn)$ proved that for $c>1$, with probability tending to 1, there is an
unique strong component of size of order $n$. Karp showed, in fact, that the
giant component has likely size asymptotic to $n\theta^2$, where
$\theta=\theta(c)$ is the unique positive root of $1-\theta=e^{-c \theta}$. In
this paper we prove that, for both random digraphs, the joint distribution of
the number of vertices and number of arcs in the giant strong component is
asymptotically Gaussian with the same mean vector $n\boldsymbol{\mu}(c)$,
$\boldsymbol{\mu}(c):=(\theta^2, c\theta^2)$ and two distinct $2\times 2$
covariance matrices, $n\mathbf{B}(c)$ and $n[\mathbf{B}(c)+c
(\boldsymbol{\mu}'(c))^T (\boldsymbol{\mu}'(c)))]$. To this end, we introduce
and analyze a randomized deletion process which determines the directed
$(1,1)$-core, the maximal digraph with minimum in-degree and out-degree at
least 1. This $(1,1)$-core contains all non-trivial strong components. However,
we show that the likely numbers of peripheral vertices and arcs in the
$(1,1)$-core, those outside the largest strong component, are of log-polynomial
order, thus dwarfed by anticipated fluctuations, on the scale of $n^{1/2}$, of
the giant component parameters. By approximating the likely realization of the
deletion algorithm with a deterministic trajectory, we obtain our main result
via exponential supermartingales and Fourier-based techniques.