The creation of open archives i.e. archives where access is regulated by open
licensing models (content, source, data), should be seen as part of a broader
socio-economic phenomenon that finds legal expression in specific
organizational and technical formats.This paper examines the origins and main
characteristics of the open archives phenomenon. We investigate the extent to
which different models of production of economic or social value can be
expressed in different forms of licensing in the context of open archives.
Through this process, we assess the extent to which the digital archive is
moving towards providing access that is deeper (meaning, that offers more
access rights) and wider (in the sense that most of the information given is in
open content licensing) or face a gradual stratification and polarization of
the content. Such stratification entails the emergence of two types of content:
content to which access is extremely limited and content to which access
remains completely open. This differentiation between classes of content is the
result of multiple factors: from purely legislative, administrative and
contractual restrictions (e.g. data protection and confidentiality
restrictions) to information economics (e.g. peer production) or social
(minimum universal access).
  We claim that with respect to the access management model, most of the
current archiving processes include elements of openness. Usually, this is the
result of economic necessity expressed in licensing instruments or
organisational arrangements. The viability and the socio-economic importance of
the digital archives also contributes to the use of open archiving practices.
In such a context, although pure forms of open digital archives may remain an
ideal, the reality of hybrid open digital archives is a necessity.