The extensive database of high-resolution G-band images observed with the
Hinode/SOT is a unique resource to derive statistical properties of pores using
advanced digital image processing techniques. The study is based on two data
sets: (1) Photometric and morphological properties inferred from single G-band
images cover almost seven years from 2006 October 25 to 2013 August 31. (2)
Horizontal flow fields have been derived from 356 one-hour sequences of G-band
images using LCT for a shorter period of time from 2006 November 3 to 2008
January 6 comprising 13 active regions.
  A total of 7643/2863 (single/time-averaged) pores builds the foundation of
the statistical analysis. Pores are preferentially observed at low latitudes in
the southern hemisphere during the deep minimum of solar cycle No. 23. This
imbalance reverses during the rise of cycle No. 24, when the pores migrate from
high to low latitudes. Pores are rarely encountered in quiet-Sun G-band images,
and only about 10% of pores exists in isolation. In general, pores do not
exhibit a circular shape. Typical aspect ratios of the semi-major and -minor
axes are 3:2 when ellipses are fitted to pores. Smaller pores (more than
two-thirds are smaller than 5~Mm^2) tend to be more circular, and their
boundaries are less corrugated. Both area and perimeter length of pores obey
log-normal frequency distributions. The frequency distribution of the intensity
can be reproduced by two Gaussians representing dark and bright components.
Bright features resembling umbral dots and even light-bridges cover about 20%
of the pore's area. Averaged radial profiles show a peak of the intensity at
normalized radius R_N = r /R_pore = 2.1, followed by maxima of the divergence
at R_N= 2.3 and the radial component of the horizontal velocity at R_N= 4.6.
The divergence is negative within pores.