(Abridged) We investigate the power of void statistics to constrain galaxy
bias and the amplitude of dark matter fluctuations. We use the halo occupation
distribution (HOD) framework to describe the relation between galaxies and dark
matter. After choosing HOD parameters that reproduce the mean space density
n_gal and projected correlation function w_p measured for galaxy samples with
M_r<-19 and M_r<-21 from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), we predict the
void probability function (VPF) and underdensity probability function (UPF) of
these samples by populating the halos of a large, high-resolution N-body
simulation. If we make the conventional assumption that the HOD is independent
of large scale environment at fixed halo mass, then models constrained to match
n_gal and w_p predict nearly identical void statistics, independent of the
scatter between halo mass and central galaxy luminosity or uncertainties in HOD
parameters. Models with sigma_8=0.7 and sigma_8=0.9 also predict very similar
void statistics. However, the VPF and UPF are sensitive to environmental
variations of the HOD in a regime where these variations have little impact on
w_p. For example, doubling the minimum host halo mass in regions with large
scale (5 Mpc/h) density contrast delta<-0.65 has a readily detectable impact on
void probabilities of M_r<-19 galaxies, and a similar change for delta<-0.2
alters the void probabilities of M_r<-21 galaxies at a detectable level. The
VPF and UPF provide complementary information about the onset and magnitude of
density- dependence in the HOD. By detecting or ruling out HOD changes in low
density regions, void statistics can reduce systematic uncertainties in the
cosmological constraints derived from HOD modeling, and, more importantly,
reveal connections between halo formation history and galaxy properties.