The astonishing diversity in the observed planetary population requires
theoretical efforts and advances in planet formation theories. Numerical
approaches provide a method to tackle the weaknesses of current planet
formation models and are an important tool to close gaps in poorly constrained
areas. We present a global disk setup to model the first stages of giant planet
formation via gravitational instabilities (GI) in 3D with the block-structured
adaptive mesh refinement (AMR) hydrodynamics code ENZO. With this setup, we
explore the impact of AMR techniques on the fragmentation and clumping due to
large-scale instabilities using different AMR configurations. Additionally, we
seek to derive general resolution criteria for global simulations of
self-gravitating disks of variable extent. We run a grid of simulations with
varying AMR settings, including runs with a static grid for comparison, and
study the effects of varying the disk radius. Adopting a marginally stable disk
profile (Q_init=1), we validate the numerical robustness of our model for
different spatial extensions, from compact to larger, extended disks (R_disk =
10, 100 and 300 AU, M_disk ~ 0.05 M_Sun, M_star = 0.646 M_Sun). By combining
our findings from the resolution and parameter studies we find a lower limit of
the resolution to be able to resolve GI induced fragmentation features and
distinct, turbulence inducing clumps. Irrespective of the physical extension of
the disk, topologically disconnected clump features are only resolved if the
fragmentation-active zone of the disk is resolved with at least 100 cells,
which holds as a minimum requirement for all global disk setups. Our
simulations illustrate the capabilities of AMR-based modeling techniques for
planet formation simulations and underline the importance of balanced
refinement settings to reproduce fragmenting structures.