In this study we present detailed calculations of absorption line indices on
the Lick System based on the stellar models by Salasnich et al. (2000)
calculated with enhanced mix of alpha-elements. Using the so-called Response
Functions (RFs) of Tripicco & Bell (1995, TB95), we calculate the indices for
SSPs of different age, metallicity and enhancement. We made use of the triplet
Hb, Mgb and <Fe>, and Minimum-Distance Method proposed by Trager et al. (2000,
TFWG00) to estimate the age, metallicity and enhancement degree for the
galaxies of the Gonzalez (1993) sample, and compare the results with those
TFWG00 and Thomas et al (2003). Since very large differences are found, in
particular as far as the age is concerned, we analyze in a great detail all
possible sources of disagreement, going from the stellar models and SSPs to
many technical details of the procedure to calculate the indices, and finally
the pattern of chemical elements (especially when alpha-enhanced mixtures are
adopted). The key issue of the analysis is that at given metallicity Z and
enhancement factor, the specific abundance ratios [Xel/Fe] adopted for some
elements (e.g. O, Mg, Ti, and likely others) dominate the scene because with
the TB95 RFs they may strongly affect indices like Hb and the age in turn.
Finally we have drawn some remarks on the interpretation of the distribution of
early-type galaxies in popular two-indices planes, like Hb vs. [MgFe]. We argue
that part of the scatter along the Hb axis observed in this plane could be
attributed instead of the age, the current explanation, to a spread both in the
degree of enhancement and some abundance ratios. The main conclusion of this
study is that deriving ages, metallicities and degree of enhancement from line
indices is a cumbersome affair whose results are still uncertain.