The {\em information diffusion} has been modeled as the spread of an
information within a group through a process of social influence, where the
diffusion is driven by the so called {\em influential network}. Such a process,
which has been intensively studied under the name of {\em viral marketing}, has
the goal to select an initial good set of individuals that will promote a new
idea (or message) by spreading the "rumor" within the entire social network
through the word-of-mouth. Several studies used the {\em linear threshold
model} where the group is represented by a graph, nodes have two possible
states (active, non-active), and the threshold triggering the adoption
(activation) of a new idea to a node is given by the number of the active
neighbors.
  The problem of detecting in a graph the presence of the minimal number of
nodes that will be able to activate the entire network is called {\em target
set selection} (TSS). In this paper we extend TSS by allowing nodes to have
more than two colors. The multicolored version of the TSS can be described as
follows: let $G$ be a torus where every node is assigned a color from a finite
set of colors. At each local time step, each node can recolor itself, depending
on the local configurations, with the color held by the majority of its
neighbors. We study the initial distributions of colors leading the system to a
monochromatic configuration of color $k$, focusing on the minimum number of
initial $k$-colored nodes. We conclude the paper by providing the time
complexity to achieve the monochromatic configuration.