The efficiency of an encounter-controlled two-channel reaction between two
independently-mobile reactants on a lattice is characterized by the mean number
$\rt$ of steps to reaction. The two reactants are distinguished by their mass
with the "light" walker performing a jump to a nearest-neighbor site in each
time step, while the "heavy" walker hops only with a probability $p$; we
associate $p$ with the "temperature" of the system. Lattices subject to
periodic and to confining boundary conditions are considered. For periodic
lattices, depending on the initial state, the reaction time either falls off
monotonically with $p$ or displays a local minimum with respect to $p$;
occurrence of the latter signals a regime where the efficiency of the reaction
effectively decreases with increasing temperature. Such behavior disappears if
the jump probability of the light walker falls below a characteristic threshold
value. In lattices subject to confining boundary conditions, the behavior is
more complex. Depending on the initial conditions, the reaction time as a
function of $p$ may increase monotonically, decrease monotonically, display a
single maximum or even a maximum and minimum. These inverted regions are a
consequence of a strictly classical interplay between excluded volume effects
implicit in the specification of the two reaction channels, and the system's
dimensionality and spatial extent. Our results highlight situations where the
description of an encounter-controlled reactive event cannot be described by a
single, effective diffusion coefficient. We also distinguish between the
inversion region identified here and the Marcus inverted region which arises in
electron transfer reactions.