(abridged) We present a detailed spectral analysis of the first observation
of the Seyfert 1 galaxy MCG-6-30-15 by the European Photon Imaging Camera on
board the XMM-Newton observatory, together with contemporaneous data from the
Proportional Counter Array on the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer. Confirming our
previously published result, we find that the presence of extremely broadened
reflection features from an ionized relativistic accretion disk is required
even when one employs the latest X-ray reflection models and includes the
effect of complex absorption. The extremely broadened reflection features are
also present if the primary continuum is modeled with a thermal Comptonisation
spectrum rather than a simple power-law continuum. With this fact established,
we examine these data using a relativistic smearing function corresponding to a
``generalized thin accretion disk'' model. We find strong evidence for torquing
of the central parts of the accretion disk (presumably through magnetic
interactions with the plunging region of the disk and/or the rotating black
hole itself). We also perform a study of spectral variability within our
observation. We find that the disk reflection features maintain roughly a
constant equivalent width with respect to the observed continuum, as predicted
by simple reflection models. Taken together with other studies of MCG-6-30-15
that find disk features to possess constant intensity at higher flux states, we
suggest that the flux of disk features undergoes a saturation once the source
emerges from a Deep Minimum state.