The star gamma Cep is known as a single-lined spectroscopic triple system at
a distance of 13.8 pc, composed of a K1 III-IV primary star with V = 3.2 mag, a
stellar-mass companion in a 66--67 year orbit (Torres 2006), and a substellar
companion with M_p sin i = 1.7 M_Jup that is most likely a planet (Hatzes et
al. 2003). We aim to obtain a first direct detection of the stellar companion,
to determine its current orbital position (for comparison with the
spectroscopic and astrometric data), its infrared magnitude and, hence, mass.
We use the Adaptive Optics camera CIAO at the Japanese 8m telescope Subaru on
Mauna Kea, Hawaii, with the semi-transparent coronograph to block most of the
light from the bright primary gamma Cep A, and to detect at the same time the
faint companion B. In addition, we also used the IR camera Omega-Cass at the
Calar Alto 3.5m telescope, Spain, to image gamma Cep A and B by adding up many
very short integrations (without AO). gamma Cep B is clearly detected on our
CIAO and Omega-Cass images. We use a photometric standard star to determine the
magnitude of B after PSF subtraction in the Subaru image, and the magnitude
difference between A and B in the Calar Alto images, and find an average value
of K = 7.3 \pm 0.2 mag. The separations and position angles between A and B are
measured on 15 July 2006 and 11 and 12 Sept 2006, B is slightly south of west
of A. By combining the radial velocity, astrometric, and imaging data, we have
refined the binary orbit and determined the dynamical masses of the two stars
in the gamma Cep system, namely 1.40 \pm 0.12 M_sun for the primary and 0.409
\pm 0.018 M_sun for the secondary (consistent with being a M4 dwarf). We also
determine the minimum mass of the sub-stellar companion to be M_p sin i = 1.60
\pm 0.13 M_Jup.