A path in an edge-colored graph $G$, where adjacent edges may be colored the
same, is a rainbow path if every two edges of it receive distinct colors. The
rainbow connection number of a connected graph $G$, denoted by $rc(G)$, is the
minimum number of colors that are needed to color the edges of $G$ such that
there exists a rainbow path connecting every two vertices of $G$. Similarly, a
tree in $G$ is a rainbow~tree if no two edges of it receive the same color. The
minimum number of colors that are needed in an edge-coloring of $G$ such that
there is a rainbow tree connecting $S$ for each $k$-subset $S$ of $V(G)$ is
called the $k$-rainbow index of $G$, denoted by $rx_k(G)$, where $k$ is an
integer such that $2\leq k\leq n$. Chakraborty et al. got the following result:
For every $\epsilon> 0$, a connected graph with minimum degree at least
$\epsilon n$ has bounded rainbow connection, where the bound depends only on
$\epsilon$. Krivelevich and Yuster proved that if $G$ has $n$ vertices and the
minimum degree $\delta(G)$ then $rc(G)<20n/\delta(G)$. This bound was later
improved to $3n/(\delta(G)+1)+3$ by Chandran et al. Since $rc(G)=rx_2(G)$, a
natural problem arises: for a general $k$ determining the true behavior of
$rx_k(G)$ as a function of the minimum degree $\delta(G)$. In this paper, we
give upper bounds of $rx_k(G)$ in terms of the minimum degree $\delta(G)$ in
different ways, namely, via Szemer\'{e}di's Regularity Lemma, connected
$2$-step dominating sets, connected $(k-1)$-dominating sets and $k$-dominating
sets of $G$.