We have used a combination of high resolution cosmological N-body simulations
and semi-analytic modelling of galaxy formation to investigate the processes
that determine the spatial distribution of galaxies in cold dark matter (CDM)
models. The galaxy distribution depends sensitively on the efficiency with
which galaxies form in halos of different mass. In small mass halos, galaxy
formation is inhibited by the reheating of cooled gas by feedback processes,
whereas in large mass halos, it is inhibited by the long cooling time of the
gas. As a result, the mass-to-light ratio of halos has a deep minimum at the
halo mass associated with L* galaxies. This leads to a scale dependent bias in
the distribution of galaxies relative to the distribution of mass. On large
scales, the bias in the galaxy distribution is related in a simple way to the
bias in the distribution of massive halos. On small scales, the correlation
function is determined by the interplay between various effects including the
spatial exclusion of dark matter halos, the distribution function of the number
of galaxies occupying a single dark matter halo and, to a lesser extent,
dynamical friction. Remarkably, these processes conspire to produce a
correlation function in a flat, Omega_0=0.3, CDM model that is close to a
power-law over nearly four orders of magnitude in amplitude. This model agrees
well with the correlation function of galaxies measured in the APM survey. On
small scales, the model galaxies are less strongly clustered than the dark
matter whereas on large scales, they trace the occupied halos. Our clustering
predictions are robust to changes in the parameters of the galaxy formation
model, provided only those models that match the bright end of the galaxy
luminosity function are considered. (abridged)