We present a catalog of 1888 fundamental-mode RR Lyrae stars detected in the
Galactic bulge fields of the second phase of the Optical Gravitational Lensing
Experiment (OGLE). The catalog includes basic parameters of the light curves,
identifications of Blazhko frequencies, V-I colors at minimum light (for most
stars), and other information for each star. We detect a high rate of incidence
of the Blazhko phenomenon (at least 27.6%), including unprecedentedly many
frequency triplets, which we attribute to our sensitive search method. We find
that the minimum light V-I color (useful as a reddening indicator) grows slowly
redder with increasing period and exhibits a star-to-star scatter of
approximately 0.07 mag. We use this color to evaluate the zero-point accuracy
of the reddening map of the Galactic bulge derived from OGLE data, and find
that in addition to low-level random errors or resolution effects (responsible
for much of the scatter), the map may systematically over-represent E(V-I) by
approximately 0.05 mag in most fields. We present reasonably robust evidence
that the RR Lyrae-to-red clump color separation is larger by 0.05--0.08 mag in
the bulge than locally, which argues for caution in the use of these stars for
reddening determinations. We consider the RR Lyrae constraint on the
Galactocentric distance, but uncertainty about the absolute magnitude
calibration leaves significant flexibility in the result. In contrast to
previous results, we robustly detect the signature of the Galactic bar in the
RR Lyrae population within the inner plus/minus 3 degrees of longitude, and we
highlight the apparent differences between the structures traced by the red
clump giants and the more metal-poor RR Lyrae stars. (abridged)