Magnetorotational instability (MRI) is the most promising mechanism behind
accretion in low-mass protostellar disks. Here we present the first analysis of
the global structure and evolution of non-ideal MRI-driven T-Tauri disks on
million-year timescales. We accomplish this in a 1+1D simulation by calculating
magnetic diffusivities and utilizing turbulence activity criteria to determine
thermal structure and accretion rate without resorting to a 3-D
magnetohydrodynamical (MHD) simulation. Our major findings are as follows.
First, even for modest surface densities of just a few times the minimum-mass
solar nebula, the dead zone encompasses the giant planet-forming region,
preserving any compositional gradients. Second, the surface density of the
active layer is nearly constant in time at roughly 10 g/cm2, which we use to
derive a simple prescription for viscous heating in MRI-active disks for those
who wish to avoid detailed MHD computations. Furthermore, unlike a standard
disk with constant-alpha viscosity, the disk midplane does not cool off over
time, though the surface cools as the star evolves along the Hayashi track. The
ice line is firmly in the terrestrial planet-forming region throughout disk
evolution and can move either inward or outward with time, depending on whether
pileups form near the star. Finally, steady-state mass transport is a poor
description of flow through an MRI-active disk. We caution that MRI activity is
sensitive to many parameters, including stellar X-ray flux, grain size,
gas/small grain mass ratio and magnetic field strength, and we have not
performed an exhaustive parameter study here.