{\sc SigSpec} computes the spectral significance levels for the DFT amplitude
spectrum of a time series at arbitrarily given sampling. It is based on the
analytical solution for the Probability Density Function (PDF) of an amplitude
level, including dependencies on frequency and phase and referring to white
noise. Using a time series dataset as input, an iterative procedure including
step-by-step prewhitening of the most significant signal components and
MultiSine least-squares fitting is provided to determine a whole set of signal
components, which makes the program a powerful tool for multi-frequency
analysis. Instead of the step-by-step prewhitening of the most significant
peaks, the program is also able to take into account several steps of the
prewhitening sequence simultaneously and check for the combination associated
to a minimum residual scatter. This option is designed to overcome the aliasing
problem caused by periodic time gaps in the dataset. {\sc SigSpec} can detect
non-sinusoidal periodicities in a dataset by simultaneously taking into account
a fundamental frequency plus a set of harmonics. Time-resolved spectral
significance analysis using a set of intervals of the time series is supported
to investigate the development of eigenfrequencies over the observation time.
Furthermore, an extension is available to perform the {\sc SigSpec} analysis
for multiple time series input files at once. In this MultiFile mode, time
series may be tagged as target and comparison data. Based on this selection,
{\sc SigSpec} is capable of determining differential significance spectra for
the target datasets with respect to coincidences in the comparison spectra. A
built-in simulator to generate and superpose a variety of sinusoids and trends
as well as different types of noise completes the software package at the
present stage of development.