The origin and configuration of the gas which emits broad lines in Type I
active galactic nuclei is not established yet. The lack of small-scale
structure in the broad emission-line profiles is consistent with a smooth gas
flow, or a clumped flow with many small clouds. An attractive possibility for
the origin of many small clouds is the atmospheres of bloated stars, an origin
which also provides a natural mechanism for the cloud confinement. Earlier
studies of the broad-line profiles have already put strong lower limits on the
minimum number of such stars, but these limits are sensitive to the assumed
width of the lines produced by each cloud. Here we revisit this problem using
high-resolution Keck spectra of the H alpha line in NGC 4395, which has the
smallest known broad-line region (~10^14 cm). Only a handful of the required
bloated stars (each having r~10^14 cm) could fit into the broad-line region of
NGC 4395, yet the observed smoothness of the H alpha line implies a lower limit
of ~10^4-10^5 on the number of discrete clouds. This rules out conclusively the
bloated-stars scenario, regardless of any plausible line-broadening mechanisms.
The upper limit on the size of the clouds is ~10^12 cm, which is comparable to
the size implied by photoionization models. This strongly suggests that gas in
the broad-line region is structured as a smooth rather than a clumped flow,
most likely in a rotationally dominated thick disk-like configuration. However,
it remains to be clarified why such a smooth, gravity-dominated flow generates
double-peaked emission lines only in a small fraction of active galactic
nuclei.