Because of the importance of object oriented methodologies, the research in
developing new measure for object oriented system development is getting
increased focus. The most of the metrics need to find the interactions between
the objects and modules for developing necessary metric and an influential
software measure that is attracting the software developers, designers and
researchers. In this paper a new interactions are defined for object oriented
system. Using these interactions, a parser is developed to analyze the existing
architecture of the software. Within the design model, it is necessary for
design classes to collaborate with one another. However, collaboration should
be kept to an acceptable minimum i.e. better designing practice will introduce
low coupling. If a design model is highly coupled, the system is difficult to
implement, to test and to maintain overtime. In case of enhancing software, we
need to introduce or remove module and in that case coupling is the most
important factor to be considered because unnecessary coupling may make the
system unstable and may cause reduction in the system's performance. So
coupling is thought to be a desirable goal in software construction, leading to
better values for external software qualities such as maintainability,
reusability and so on. To test this hypothesis, a good measure of class
coupling is needed. In this paper, based on the developed tool called Design
Analyzer we propose a methodology to reuse an existing system with the
objective of enhancing an existing Object oriented system keeping the coupling
as low as possible.