In this study, we propose and analyze in simulations a new, highly flexible
method of implementing synaptic plasticity in a wafer-scale, accelerated
neuromorphic hardware system. The study focuses on globally modulated STDP, as
a special use-case of this method. Flexibility is achieved by embedding a
general-purpose processor dedicated to plasticity into the wafer. To evaluate
the suitability of the proposed system, we use a reward modulated STDP rule in
a spike train learning task. A single layer of neurons is trained to fire at
specific points in time with only the reward as feedback. This model is
simulated to measure its performance, i.e. the increase in received reward
after learning. Using this performance as baseline, we then simulate the model
with various constraints imposed by the proposed implementation and compare the
performance. The simulated constraints include discretized synaptic weights, a
restricted interface between analog synapses and embedded processor, and
mismatch of analog circuits. We find that probabilistic updates can increase
the performance of low-resolution weights, a simple interface between analog
synapses and processor is sufficient for learning, and performance is
insensitive to mismatch. Further, we consider communication latency between
wafer and the conventional control computer system that is simulating the
environment. This latency increases the delay, with which the reward is sent to
the embedded processor. Because of the time continuous operation of the analog
synapses, delay can cause a deviation of the updates as compared to the not
delayed situation. We find that for highly accelerated systems latency has to
be kept to a minimum. This study demonstrates the suitability of the proposed
implementation to emulate the selected reward modulated STDP learning rule.