An intriguing possibility to partially circumvent extragalactic background
light (EBL) absorption in very-high-energy (VHE) observations of blazars is
that photons convert into axion-like particles (ALPs) $\gamma \to a$ inside or
close to a blazar and reconvert into photons $a \to \gamma$ in the Milky Way
magnetic field. This idea has been put forward in 2008 and has attracted a
considerable interest. However, while the probability for the back-conversion
$a \to \gamma$ has been computed in detail (using the maps of the Galatic
magnetic field), regretfully no realistic estimate of the probability for the
conversion $\gamma \to a$ inside a blazar has been performed, in spite of the
fact that the present-day knowledge allows this task to be accomplished in a
reliable fashion. We present a detailed calculation that fills this gap,
considering both types of blazars, namely BL Lac objects (BL Lacs) and flat
spectrum radio quasars (FSRQ) with their specific structural and environmental
properties. We also include the host elliptical galaxy into account. Our
somewhat surprising results show that the conversion probability in BL Lacs is
strongly dependent on the source parameters -- like the position of the
emission region along the jet and the strength of the magnetic field therein --
making it effectivelly unpredictable. On the other hand, the lobes at the
termination of FSRQ jets lead to an effective "equipartition" between photons
and ALPs due to its chaotic nature, thereby allowing us to make a clear-cut
prediction. These results are quite important in view of the planned VHE
detectors like the CTA, HAWK and HiSCORE.