Within the Constrained Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (CMSSM) it is
possible to predict the low energy gauge couplings and masses of the
3.generation particles from a few parameters at the GUT scale, and electroweak
symmetry breaking. Further constraints can be derived from the branching ratio
for the radiative (penguin) decay of the b-quark into s gamma and the lower
limit on the lifetime of the universe, which requires the dark matter density
due to the Lightest Supersymmetric Particle (LSP) not to overclose the
universe. From a chi^2 analysis, in which these constraints can be considered
simultaneously, one can calculate the probability for each point in the MSGUT
parameter space. The recently measured top quark mass prefers two solutions for
the mixing angle in the Higgs sector: tan beta in the range between 1 and 3 or
alternatively tan beta approx 25-50. For both cases we find a unique chi^2
minimum in the parameter space. For the low tan beta solution these additional
constraints can be fulfilled simultaneously for quite a large region of the
parameter space. In contrast, for the high tan beta solution the correct value
for the b --> s gamma rate is obtained only for small values of the gaugino
scale. For particles, which are most likely to have masses in the LEP II energy
range, the cross sections are given for the various energy scenarios at LEP II.
The highest LEP II energies (205 GeV) are just high enough to cover a large
region of the preferred parameter space, both for the low and high tan beta
solutions. For low tan beta the production of the lightest Higgs boson, which
is expected to have a mass below 115 GeV, is the most promising channel, while
for large tan beta the production of charginos and/or neutralinos covers the
preferred parameter space.