Aims: We aim to derive the absolute parameters of the components of AD And,
AL Cam, and V338 Her, interpret their orbital period changes and discuss their
evolutionary status. Methods: New and complete multi-filter light curves of the
eclipsing binaries AD And, AL Cam, and V338 Her were obtained and analysed with
modern methods. Using all reliably observed times of minimum light, we examined
orbital period irregularities using the least squares method. In addition, we
acquired new spectroscopic observations during the secondary eclipses for AL
Cam and V338 Her. Results: For AL Cam and V338 Her, we derive reliable spectral
types for their primary stars. Statistical checks of orbital period analysis
for all systems are very reassuring in the cases of V338 Her and AD And,
although less so for AL Cam. The LIght-Time Effect (LITE) results are checked
by inclusion of a third light option in the photometric analyses. Light curve
solutions provide the means to calculate the absolute parameters of the
components of the systems and reliably estimate their present evolutionary
status. Conclusions: AL Cam and V338 Her are confirmed as classical Algols of
relatively low mass in similar configurations. Unlike AL Cam, however, V338 Her
is still transferring matter between its components, raising interest in the
determinability of the evolutionary histories of Algols. AD And is found to be
a detached system in which both close stars are of age ~109 yr and is probably
a "non-classical" young triple, at an interesting stage of its dynamical
evolution.