We perform population synthesis calculations of present-day post common
envelope binaries (PCEBs) and zero-age cataclysmic variables (ZACVs) using a
common envelope efficiency parameter, alphaCE, that is a function of secondary
mass, Ms. We investigate three basic possibilities: (1) a standard constant
alphaCE prescription, with alphaCE = 1.0, 0.6, 0.3, 0.2, 0.1 and 0.05, to
provide a baseline for comparison, (2) a power law dependence, alphaCE =
(Ms)^n, with n = 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0, and (3) a dependence in which alphaCE
approaches1 for large secondary masses and alphaCE = 0 below some assumed
cutoff mass, alphaCE = 1 - Mcut/Ms, where Mcut is the cutoff mass and is equal
to 0.0375, 0.075 and 0.15 solar mass. For each population, we compute orbital
period, orbital separation, white dwarf mass and secondary mass distributions.
  We find that if alphaCE is less than ~0.2 in our constant alphaCE sequence,
the predicted present-day ZACV population is significantly modified compared
with our standard model (alphaCE = 1.0). In our variable alphaCE sequences for
ZACVs, we find that for models in which alphaCE decreases very rapidly for
small secondary masses, the orbital period distribution below the period gap
differs significantly from our standard model. These differences are most
evident in our power law sequence model with n = 2 and in our cutoff mass
sequence model with Mcut = 0.15 solar mass. In these two models, the fraction
of CVs forming with orbital periods below the gap is reduced significantly, the
fraction forming in the gap is increased significantly, and both the
short-period peak and the minimum period in the ZACV orbital period
distribution shift to considerably longer orbital periods compared with our
standard model.