A $k$-dimensional box is the cartesian product $R_1 \times R_2 \times ...
\times R_k$ where each $R_i$ is a closed interval on the real line. The {\it
boxicity} of a graph $G$, denoted as $box(G)$, is the minimum integer $k$ such
that $G$ is the intersection graph of a collection of $k$-dimensional boxes. A
unit cube in $k$-dimensional space or a $k$-cube is defined as the cartesian
product $R_1 \times R_2 \times ... \times R_k$ where each $R_i$ is a closed
interval on the real line of the form $[a_i, a_{i}+1]$. The {\it cubicity} of
$G$, denoted as $cub(G)$, is the minimum $k$ such that $G$ is the intersection
graph of a collection of $k$-cubes. In this paper we show that $cub(G) \leq t +
\left \lceil \log (n - t)\right\rceil - 1$ and $box(G) \leq \left
\lfloor\frac{t}{2}\right\rfloor + 1$, where $t$ is the cardinality of the
minimum vertex cover of $G$ and $n$ is the number of vertices of $G$. We also
show the tightness of these upper bounds.
  F. S. Roberts in his pioneering paper on boxicity and cubicity had shown that
for a graph $G$, $box(G) \leq \left \lfloor\frac{n}{2} \right \rfloor$, where
$n$ is the number of vertices of $G$, and this bound is tight. We show that if
$G$ is a bipartite graph then $box(G) \leq \left \lceil\frac{n}{4}
\right\rceil$ and this bound is tight. We point out that there exist graphs of
very high boxicity but with very low chromatic number. For example there exist
bipartite (i.e., 2 colorable) graphs with boxicity equal to $\frac{n}{4}$.
Interestingly, if boxicity is very close to $\frac{n}{2}$, then chromatic
number also has to be very high. In particular, we show that if $box(G) =
\frac{n}{2} - s$, $s \geq 0$, then $\chi(G) \geq \frac{n}{2s+2}$, where
$\chi(G)$ is the chromatic number of $G$.