[Abridged] The properties of observed galaxies and dark matter haloes in
simulations depend on their environment. The term environment has been used to
describe a wide variety of measures that may or may not correlate with each
other. Popular measures of environment include the distance to the N'th nearest
neighbour, the number density of objects within some distance, or the mass of
the host dark matter halo. We use results from the Millennium simulation and a
semi-analytic model for galaxy formation to quantify the relations between
environment and halo mass. We show that the environmental parameters used in
the observational literature are in effect measures of halo mass, even if they
are measured for a fixed stellar mass. The strongest correlation between
environment and halo mass arises when the number of objects is counted out to a
distance of 1.5-2 times the virial radius of the host halo and when the
galaxies/haloes are required to be relatively bright/massive. For observational
studies the virial radius is not easily determined, but the number of
neighbours out to 1-2 Mpc/h gives a similarly strong correlation. For the
distance to the N'th nearest neighbour the correlation with halo mass is nearly
as strong provided N>2. We demonstrate that this environmental parameter
becomes insensitive to halo mass if it is constructed from dimensionless
quantities. This can be achieved by scaling the minimum luminosity/mass of
neighbours to that of the object in question and by dividing the distance to a
length scale associated with either the neighbour or the galaxy under
consideration. We show how such a halo mass independent environmental parameter
can be defined for observational and numerical studies. The results presented
here will help future studies to disentangle the effects of halo mass and
external environment on the properties of galaxies and dark matter haloes.