Rate coefficients of the Arrhenius-Neel form are calculated for thermally
activated magnetic moment reversal for dual layer exchange-coupled composite
(ECC) media based on the Langer formalism and are applied to study the sweep
rate dependence of MH hysteresis loops as a function of the exchange coupling I
between the layers. The individual grains are modelled as two exchange coupled
Stoner-Wohlfarth particles from which the minimum energy paths connecting the
minimum energy states are calculated using a variant of the string method and
the energy barriers and attempt frequencies calculated as a function of the
applied field. The resultant rate equations describing the evolution of an
ensemble of non-interacting ECC grains are then integrated numerically in an
applied field with constant sweep rate and the magnetization calculated as a
function of the applied field H. MH hysteresis loops are presented for a range
of values I and a figure of merit (FOM) that quantifies the advantages of ECC
media is proposed. The results are also used to examine the accuracy of certain
approximate models that reduce the complexity associated with the Langer based
formalism and which provide some useful insight into the reversal. Of
particular interest is the clustering of minimum energy states that are
separated by relatively low energy barriers into "metastates." It is shown that
while approximating the reversal process in terms of "metastates" results in
little loss of accuracy, it can reduce the run time of a Kinetic Monte Carlo
(KMC) simulation of the magnetic decay of an ensemble of dual layer ECC media
by 2~3 orders of magnitude. The essentially exact results presented in this
work for two coupled grains are analogous to the Stoner-Wohlfarth model of a
single grain and serve as an important precursor to KMC based simulation
studies on systems of interacting dual layer ECC media.