The main purpose of this paper is to evaluate the self-stress state of
single-wall carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and flat graphene strips (FGSs) in their
natural equilibrium state, that is, the state prior to the application of
external loads. We model CNTs as discrete elastic structures, whose shape and
volume changes are governed by a Reactive Empirical Bond-Order interatomic
potential of second generation. The kinematical variables we consider are bond
lengths, bond angles, and dihedral angles; to changes of each of these
variables we associate a work-conjugate nanostress. To determine the
self-stress state in a given CNT, we formulate the load-free equilibrium
problem as a minimum problem for the interatomic potential, whose solution
yields the equilibrium nanostresses; next, by exploiting the nonlinear
constitutive dependence we derive for nanostresses in terms of a list of
kinematical variables, we determine the equilibrium values of the latter;
finally, from the equilibrium values of the kinematical variables we deduce the
natural geometry and, in particular, the natural radius. In the achiral case,
when we can count on maximal intrinsic symmetries and hence the number of
independent unknowns is reduced to a minimum, the stationarity conditions
implied by energy minimization are relatively easy to derive and solve
numerically; for chiral CNTs, we prefer to solve the minimum problem directly.
We surmise that our discrete mechanical model may serve as a source of
benchmarks for MD simulation algorithms. We find that self-stress depends on
changes in both bond and dihedral angles in achiral CNTs and, in addition, on
changes in bond length in chiral CNTs. Our analysis applies also to FGSs, whose
self-stress and self-energy we evaluate; we find that, in FGSs self-stress is
associated exclusively with changes in bond angle.