We present new classes of exact solutions with noncommutative symmetries
constructed in vacuum Einstein gravity (in general, with nonzero cosmological
constant), five dimensional (5D) gravity and (anti) de Sitter gauge gravity.
Such solutions are generated by anholonomic frame transforms and parametrized
by generic off-diagonal metrics. For certain particular cases, the new classes
of metrics have explicit limits with Killing symmetries but, in general, they
may be characterized by certain anholonomic noncommutative matrix geometries.
We argue that different classes of noncommutative symmetries can be induced by
exact solutions of the field equations in 'commutative' gravity modeled by a
corresponding moving real and complex frame geometry. We analyze two classes of
black ellipsoid solutions (in the vacuum case and with cosmological constant)
in 4D gravity and construct the analytic extensions of metrics for certain
classes of associated frames with complex valued coefficients. The third class
of solutions describes 5D wormholes which can be extended to complex metrics in
complex gravity models defined by noncommutative geometric structures. The
anholonomic noncommutative symmetries of such objects are analyzed. We also
present a descriptive account how the Einstein gravity can be related to gauge
models of gravity and their noncommutative extensions and discuss such
constructions in relation to the Seiberg-Witten map for the gauge gravity.
Finally, we consider a formalism of vielbeins deformations subjected to
noncommutative symmetries in order to generate solutions for noncommutative
gravity models with Moyal (star) product.