The motion equation of standard cosmology, the Friedmann equation, is based
on the stein's equations of gravitational fields. However, British physicist E.
A. Milne pointed in 1943 that the same equation could be deduced simply based
on the Newtonian theory of gravity. It means that the Friedmann equation, in
stead of the motion equation of relativity, is actually the Newtonian one in
essence. The reason is that two simplified conditions are used in the deduction
of the Friedmann equation. One is the Robertson-Walker metric and another is
static energy momentum tensor. It is proved that in light of the R-W metric,
the velocity of light emitted by celestial bodies in the expansive universe
would satisfy the Galileo's addition rule. So what the R-W metric describes is
unsuitable to be taken as the space-time structure of relativity cosmology. On
the other hand, because there are relative velocities between observer and
material in the expensive universe actually, we should consider dynamic energy
momentum tensor in cosmology. The Friedmann equations need relativity revision.
In this way, some deductions of current cosmology, such as the values of Hubble
constant, dark material and dark energy densities and so on, should be
re-estimated. The possible form of relativity metric for cosmology is proposed
at last. It is proved strictly based on the Einstein's equation of gravity that
the space-time of the expansive universe can not be flat. In this way, by
establishing cosmology on the really rational foundation of relativity, we may
get rid of the current puzzle situation of cosmology thoroughly.