Simulation and bisimulation metrics for stochastic systems provide a
quantitative generalization of the classical simulation and bisimulation
relations. These metrics capture the similarity of states with respect to
quantitative specifications written in the quantitative {\mu}-calculus and
related probabilistic logics. We first show that the metrics provide a bound
for the difference in long-run average and discounted average behavior across
states, indicating that the metrics can be used both in system verification,
and in performance evaluation. For turn-based games and MDPs, we provide a
polynomial-time algorithm for the computation of the one-step metric distance
between states. The algorithm is based on linear programming; it improves on
the previous known exponential-time algorithm based on a reduction to the
theory of reals. We then present PSPACE algorithms for both the decision
problem and the problem of approximating the metric distance between two
states, matching the best known algorithms for Markov chains. For the
bisimulation kernel of the metric our algorithm works in time O(n^4) for both
turn-based games and MDPs; improving the previously best known O(n^9\cdot
log(n)) time algorithm for MDPs. For a concurrent game G, we show that
computing the exact distance between states is at least as hard as computing
the value of concurrent reachability games and the square-root-sum problem in
computational geometry. We show that checking whether the metric distance is
bounded by a rational r, can be done via a reduction to the theory of real
closed fields, involving a formula with three quantifier alternations, yielding
O(|G|^O(|G|^5)) time complexity, improving the previously known reduction,
which yielded O(|G|^O(|G|^7)) time complexity. These algorithms can be iterated
to approximate the metrics using binary search.