In 2000, Ambrosio and Kirchheim, with the paper "Currents in metric spaces",
settled the foundations of a theory of currents on metric spaces and used it to
pose and solve Plateau's problem in a wide class of Banach spaces. Following an
idea of De Giorgi, they gave a new definition of current which was meaningful
on any metric space. A metric current is a multilinear functional on
(k+1)-tuples of Lipschitz functions (with the first one bounded) satisfying a
continuity property, a locality property and a finite mass property. The second
chapter of the thesis is devoted to the theory of local metric currents. We
introduce the basic concepts and adapt the theory to the complex case, defining
the bidimension, the Dolbeault decomposition and related notions. A
characterization of holomorphic currents is given. The development of a Sobolev
theory on singular space is our main concern in the third chapter. We give a
characterization of Sobolev functions in terms of their behavior and growth on
the regular part; this leads to a capacity theory for the singular set which
allows us to obtain an approximation result, using functions with support in
the regular part. The second part of the chapter deals with the L2 theory on
singular spaces. In the fourth chapter, some applications of the theory are
discussed. We solve Cauchy-Riemann equation on completely reducible
singularities, by means of a structure theorem for metric currents; we also
treat the equation in Lp on complex curves and outline a possible approach for
the same problem on complex spaces which can be embedded as divisors in C^n.
The final chapter tries to spread some light on the complex geometry in
infinite dimensional spaces. After solving the Cauchy-Riemann equation in
Banach spaces, in terms of the quasi-local metric currents, we turn to the
study of positive currents, holomorphic chains and their boundaries in Hilbert
spaces.