In doped CuGeO3 systems, such as (Cu1-xZnx)GeO3 and Cu(Ge1-xSix)O3, the
spin-Peierls (SP) ordering (T<Tsp) coexists with the antiferromagnetic (AF)
phase (T<TN<Tsp). Tsp decreases while TN increases with increasing x in low
doping region. For higher x, however, the SP state disappears and only the AF
state remains. These features are common for all the doped CuGeO3 systems so
far studied, indicating the existence of universal T-x phase diagram. Recently,
Masuda et al. carried out comprehensive magnetic susceptibility (chi)
measurements of (Cu1-xMgx)GeO3, in which doping concentration can be controlled
significantly better than the Zn doped systems. They found that TN suddenly
jumps from 3.43 to 3.98K at the critical concentration xc sim 0.023 and that a
drop in chi corresponding to the SP ordering also disappears at x>xc. They thus
concluded that there is a compositional phase boundary between two distinct
magnetic phases. To clarify the nature of two phases, we performed
neutron-scattering measurements on (Cu1-xMgx)GeO3 single crystals with various
x. Analysis of the data at fixed temperature points as a function of doping
concentration has revealed sudden changes of order parameters at the critical
concentration xc=0.027 +- 0.001. At finite temperatures below TN, the drastic
increase of the AF moment takes place at xc. The spin-Peierls order parameter
delta associated with lattice dimerization shows a precipitous decrease at all
temperature below Tsp. However, it goes to zero above xc only at the low
temperature limit.