For complete affine manifolds we introduce a definition of compactification
based on the projective differential geometry (i.e.\ geodesic path data) of the
given connection. The definition of projective compactness involves a real
parameter $\alpha$ called the order of projective compactness. For volume
preserving connections, this order is captured by a notion of volume
asymptotics that we define. These ideas apply to complete pseudo-Riemannian
spaces, via the Levi-Civita connection, and thus provide a notion of
compactification alternative to conformal compactification. For each order
$\alpha$, we provide an asymptotic form of a metric which is sufficient for
projective compactness of the given order, thus also providing many local
examples.
  Distinguished classes of projectively compactified geometries of orders one
and two are associated with Ricci-flat connections and non--Ricci--flat
Einstein metrics, respectively. Conversely, these geometric conditions are
shown to force the indicated order of projective compactness. These special
compactifications are shown to correspond to normal solutions of classes of
natural linear PDE (so-called first BGG equations), or equivalently holonomy
reductions of projective Cartan/tractor connections. This enables the
application of tools already available to reveal considerable information about
the geometry of the boundary at infinity. Finally, we show that metrics
admitting such special compactifications always have an asymptotic form as
mentioned above.