Motivated by the vacuum selection problem of string/M theory, we study a new
geometric invariant of a positive Hermitian line bundle $(L, h)\to M$ over a
compact K\"ahler manifold: the expected distribution of critical points of a
Gaussian random holomorphic section $s \in H^0(M, L)$ with respect to the Chern
connection $\nabla_h$. It is a measure on $M$ whose total mass is the average
number $\mathcal{N}^{crit}_h$ of critical points of a random holomorphic
section. We are interested in the metric dependence of $\mathcal{N}^{crit}_h$,
especially metrics $h$ which minimize $\mathcal{N}^{crit}_h$. We concentrate on
the asymptotic minimization problem for the sequence of tensor powers $(L^N,
h^N)\to M$ of the line bundle and their critical point densities
$\mathcal{K}^{crit}_{N,h}(z)$. We prove that $\mathcal{K}^{crit}_{N,h}(z)$ has
a complete asymptotic expansion in $N$ whose coefficients are curvature
invariants of $h$. The first two terms in the expansion of
$\mathcal{N}^{crit}_{N,h}$ are topological invariants of $(L, M)$. The third
term is a topological invariant plus a constant $\beta_2(m)$ (depending only on
the dimension $m$ of $M$) times the Calabi functional $\int_M \rho^2 dV_h$,
where $\rho$ is the scalar curvature of the K\"ahler metric $\omega_h:=\frac i2
\Theta_h$. We give an integral formula for $\beta_2(m)$ and show, by a computer
assisted calculation, that $\beta_2(m)>0$ for $m\leq 5$, hence that
$\mathcal{N}^{crit}_{N,h}$ is asymptotically minimized by the Calabi extremal
metric (when one exists). We conjecture that $\beta_2(m)>0$ in all dimensions,
i.e. the Calabi extremal metric is always the asymptotic minimizer.