This thesis is concerned with superconformal Chern-Simons theories with
matter in 3 dimensions. The interest in these theories is two-fold. On the one
hand, it is a new family of theories in which to test the AdS/CFT
correspondence and on the other, they are important to study one of the main
objects of M-theory (M2-branes). All these theories have something in common:
they can be written in terms of 3-Leibniz algebras. Here we study the structure
theory of such algebras, paying special attention to a subclass of them that
gives rise to maximal supersymmetry and that was the first to appear in this
context: 3-Lie algebras.
  In chapter 2, we review the structure theory of metric Lie algebras and their
unitary representations. In chapter 3, we study metric 3-Leibniz algebras and
show, by specialising a construction originally due to Faulkner, that they are
in one to one correspondence with pairs of real metric Lie algebras and unitary
representations of them. We also show a third characterisation for six extreme
cases of 3-Leibniz algebras as graded Lie (super)algebras. In chapter 4, we
study metric 3-Lie algebras in detail. We prove a structural result and also
classify those with a maximally isotropic centre, which is the requirement that
ensures unitarity of the corresponding conformal field theory. Finally, in
chapter 5, we study the universal structure of superpotentials in this class of
superconformal Chern-Simons theories with matter in three dimensions. We
provide a uniform formulation for all these theories and establish the
connection between the amount of supersymmetry preserved and the gauge Lie
algebra and the appropriate unitary representation to be used to write down the
Lagrangian. The conditions for supersymmetry enhancement are then expressed
equivalently in the language of representation theory of Lie algebras or the
language of 3-Leibniz algebras.