In this work are computed analytical solutions for orbital motion on a
background described by an Expanding Locally Anisotropic (ELA) metric ansatz.
This metric interpolates between the Schwarzschild metric near the central mass
and the Robertson-Walker metric describing the expanding cosmological
background far from the central mass allowing for a fine-tuneable covariant
parameterization of gravitational interactions corrections in between these two
asymptotic limits. Assuming a non-varying gravitational constant, 'dG/dt=0', it
is discussed the variation of the Astronomical Unit (AU) obtained from
numerical analysis of the Solar System dynamics, being shown that the
corrections to the orbital periods on the Solar System due to the decrease of
the Sun's mass by radiation emission plus the General Relativity corrections
due to the ELA metric background with respect to Schwarzschild backgrounds can
be mapped to the reported yearly increase of the AU through the corrections to
Kepler's third law. Based on the value of the heuristic fit to the parameter
'dAU/dt' corresponding to the more recent ephemerides of the Solar System are
derived bounds for the value of a constant parameter 'alpha_0' for the ELA
metric as well as the maximal corrections to orbital precession and orbital
radius variation within this framework. Hence it is shown that employing the
ELA metric as a functional covariant parameterization to model gravitational
interactions corrections within the Solar system allows to avoid the need for a
varying AU and/or varying gravitational constant G.