The gravitational field exterior respectively interior to a spherically
symmetric, isolated body made of perfect fluid is examined within the
quasi-metric framework (QMF). It is required that the gravitational field is
"metrically static", meaning that it is static except for the effects of the
global cosmic expansion on the spatial geometry. Dynamical equations for the
gravitational field are set up and an exact solution is found for the exterior
part. Besides, equations of motion applying to inertial test particles moving
in the exterior gravitational field are set up. By construction the
gravitational field of the system is not static with respect to the cosmic
expansion. This means that the radius of the source increases and that
distances between circular orbits of inertial test particles increase according
to the Hubble law. Moreover it is shown that if this model of an expanding
gravitational field is taken to represent the gravitational field of the Sun
(or isolated planetary systems), this has no serious consequences for
observational aspects of planetary motion. On the contrary some observational
facts of the Earth-Moon system are naturally explained within the QMF. Finally
the QMF predicts different secular increases for two different gravitational
coupling parameters. But such secular changes are neither present in the
Newtonian limit of the quasi-metric equations of motion nor in the Newtonian
limit of the quasi-metric field equations valid inside metrically static
sources. Thus standard interpretations of space experiments testing the secular
variation of G are explicitly theory-dependent and do not apply to the QMF.