Connections compatible with degenerate metric structures are known to possess
peculiar features: on the one hand, the compatibility conditions involve
restrictions on the torsion; on the other hand, torsionfree compatible
connections are not unique, the arbitrariness being encoded in a tensor field
whose type depends on the metric structure. Nonrelativistic structures
typically fall under this scheme, the paradigmatic example being a
contravariant degenerate metric whose kernel is spanned by a one-form.
Torsionfree compatible (i.e. Galilean) connections are characterised by the
gift of a two-form (the force field). Whenever the two-form is closed, the
connection is said Newtonian. Such a nonrelativistic spacetime is known to
admit an ambient description as the orbit space of a gravitational wave with
parallel rays. The leaves of the null foliation are endowed with a
nonrelativistic structure dual to the Newtonian one, dubbed Carrollian
spacetime. We propose a generalisation of this unifying framework by
introducing a new ambient metric structure of which we study the geometry. We
characterise the space of (torsional) connections preserving such a metric
structure which is shown to project to (resp. embed) the most general class of
(torsional) Galilean (resp. Carrollian) connections. In particular, we show
that torsionfree Galilean connections can be obtained by projection of a
torsional connection compatible with an ambient Lorentzian metric, the force
field arising from the light-like part of the ambient torsion.