In this thesis a non-standard geometric framework, the "quasi-metric"
framework (QMF), is used to define relativistic space-time. The QMF consists of
a 4-dimensional space-time manifold equipped with a one-parameter family of
Lorentzian 4-metrics parameterized by a (unique) global time function.
Equivalently the QMF may be described as a 4-dimensional submanifold of a
5-dimensional product manifold equipped with a degenerate metric, where the
global time function represents one extra degenerate time dimension. A
symmetric and linear connection compatible with the non-degenerate piece of the
degenerate metric is defined, yielding equations of motion. These equations are
identical to the geodesic equation obtained from the connection. The role of
the degenerate dimension is to describe global scale changes between
gravitational and non-gravitational systems. In particular this yields an
alternative description of the expansion of the Universe. In this thesis a
quasi-metric theory of gravity is constructed. The field equations have only
one dynamical degree of freedom coupled explicitly to matter, but there is also
a second, implicit dynamical degree of freedom. The existence of an implicit
coupling makes the field equations unsuitable for a standard PPN-analysis. This
implies that the experimental status of the theory is not completely clear at
this point in time. But the non-metric part of the theory may be tested rather
independently. That is, the theory predicts that vacuum gravitational fields
and gravitationally bound bodies made of ideal gas expand like the expansion of
the Universe. Several observations suggest this; e.g. the "Pioneer effect", the
spin-down of the Earth, palaeo-tidal records etc. Thus quasi-metric relativity
has experimental support where metric theories fail.