In 1994, S.G. Matthews introduced the notion of partial metric space in order
to obtain a suitable mathematical tool for program verification [Ann. New York
Acad. Sci. 728 (1994), 183-197]. He gave an application of this new structure
to parallel computing by means of a partial metric version of the celebrated
Banach fixed point theorem [Theoret. Comput. Sci. 151 (1995), 195-205]. Later
on, M.P. Schellekens introduced the theory of complexity (quasi-metric) spaces
as a part of the development of a topological foundation for the asymptotic
complexity analysis of programs and algorithms [Elec- tronic Notes in Theoret.
Comput. Sci. 1 (1995), 211-232]. The applicability of this theory to the
asymptotic complexity analysis of Divide and Conquer algorithms was also
illustrated by Schellekens. In particular, he gave a new proof, based on the
use of the aforenamed Banach fixed point theorem, of the well-known fact that
Mergesort al- gorithm has optimal asymptotic average running time of computing.
In this paper, motivated by the utility of partial metrics in Computer Science,
we discuss whether the Matthews fixed point theorem is a suitable tool to
analyze the asymptotic complexity of algorithms in the spirit of Schellekens.
Specifically, we show that a slight modification of the well-known Baire
partial metric on the set of all words over an alphabet constitutes an
appropriate tool to carry out the asymptotic complexity analysis of algorithms
via fixed point methods without the need for assuming the convergence condition
inherent to the defini- tion of the complexity space in the Shellekens
framework. Finally, in order to illustrate and to validate the developed theory
we apply our results to analyze the asymptotic complexity of Quicksort,
Mergesort and Largesort algorithms.