The Ferraris-Kijowski purely affine Lagrangian for the electromagnetic field,
that has the form of the Maxwell Lagrangian with the metric tensor replaced by
the symmetrized Ricci tensor, is dynamically equivalent to the metric
Einstein-Maxwell Lagrangian, except the zero-field limit, for which the metric
tensor is not well-defined. This feature indicates that, for the
Ferraris-Kijowski model to be physical, there must exist a background field
that depends on the Ricci tensor. The simplest possibility, supported by recent
astronomical observations, is the cosmological constant, generated in the
purely affine formulation of gravity by the Eddington Lagrangian. In this paper
we combine the electromagnetic field and the cosmological constant in the
purely affine formulation. We show that the sum of the two affine (Eddington
and Ferraris-Kijowski) Lagrangians is dynamically inequivalent to the sum of
the analogous ($\Lambda$CDM and Einstein-Maxwell) Lagrangians in the
metric-affine/metric formulation. We also show that such a construction is
valid, like the affine Einstein-Born-Infeld formulation, only for weak
electromagnetic fields, on the order of the magnetic field in outer space of
the Solar System. Therefore the purely affine formulation that combines
gravity, electromagnetism and cosmological constant cannot be a simple sum of
affine terms corresponding separately to these fields. A quite complicated form
of the affine equivalent of the metric Einstein-Maxwell-$\Lambda$ Lagrangian
suggests that Nature can be described by a simpler affine Lagrangian, leading
to modifications of the Einstein-Maxwell-$\Lambda$CDM theory for
electromagnetic fields that contribute to the spacetime curvature on the same
order as the cosmological constant.