In a neighborhood of a (positive definite) Riemannian space in which special,
semigeodesic, coordinates are given, the metric tensor can be calculated from
its values on a suitable hypersurface and some of components of the curvature
tensor of type $(1,3)$ in the coordinate domain. Semigeodesic coordinates are a
generalization of the well-known Fermi coordinates, that play an important role
in mechanics and physics, are widely used in Minkowskian space, and in
differential geometry of Riemannian spaces in general. In the present paper, we
consider a more general situation. We introduce special pre-semigeodesic charts
characterized both geometrically and in terms of the connection, formulate a
version of the Peano's-Picard's-Cauchy-like Theorem on existence and uniqueness
of solutions of the initial values problems for systems of first-order ordinary
differential equations. Then we use the apparatus in a fixed pre-semigeodesic
chart of a manifold equipped with the linear symmetric connection. Our aim is
to reconstruct, or construct, the symmetric linear connection in some
neighborhood from the knowledge of the "initial conditions": the restriction of
the connection to a fixed $(n-1)$-dimensional surface $S$ and some of the
components of the curvature tensor $R$ in the "volume" (coordinate domain).
  By analogous methods, we retrieve (or construct) the metric tensor of type
$(0,4)$ of a pseudo-Riemannian manifold in a domain of semigeodesic coordinates
from the known restriction of the metric to some non-isotropic hypersurface and
some of the components of the curvature tensor in the volume. In comparison to
other contributors, we give shorter proofs of constructive character based on
classical results on first order ODEs (ordinary differential equations).