We explicitly construct the metric of a Kerr black hole that is tidally
perturbed by the external universe in the slow-motion approximation. This
approximation assumes that the external universe changes slowly relative to the
rotation rate of the hole, thus allowing the parameterization of the
Newman-Penrose scalar $\psi_0$ by time-dependent electric and magnetic tidal
tensors. This approximation, however, does not constrain how big the spin of
the background hole can be and, in principle, the perturbed metric can model
rapidly spinning holes. We first generate a potential by acting with a
differential operator on $\psi_0$. From this potential we arrive at the metric
perturbation by use of the Chrzanowski procedure in the ingoing radiation
gauge. We provide explicit analytic formulae for this metric perturbation in
spherical Kerr-Schild coordinates, where the perturbation is finite at the
horizon. This perturbation is parametrized by the mass and Kerr spin parameter
of the background hole together with the electric and magnetic tidal tensors
that describe the time evolution of the perturbation produced by the external
universe. In order to take the metric accurate far away from the hole, these
tidal tensors should be determined by asymptotically matching this metric to
another one valid far from the hole. The tidally perturbed metric constructed
here could be useful in initial data constructions to describe the metric near
the horizons of a binary system of spinning holes. This perturbed metric could
also be used to construct waveforms and study the absorption of mass and
angular momentum by a Kerr black hole when external processes generate
gravitational radiation.