The ``warp drive'' metric recently presented by Alcubierre has the problem
that an observer at the center of the warp bubble is causally separated from
the outer edge of the bubble wall. Hence such an observer can neither create a
warp bubble on demand nor control one once it has been created. In addition,
such a bubble requires negative energy densities. One might hope that
elimination of the first problem might ameliorate the second as well. We
analyze and generalize a metric, originally proposed by Krasnikov for two
spacetime dimensions, which does not suffer from the first difficulty. As a
consequence, the Krasnikov metric has the interesting property that although
the time for a one-way trip to a distant star cannot be shortened, the time for
a round trip, as measured by clocks on Earth, can be made arbitrarily
short. In our four dimensional extension of this metric, a ``tube'' is
constructed along the path of an outbound spaceship, which connects the Earth
and the star. Inside the tube spacetime is flat, but the light cones are opened
out so as to allow superluminal travel in one direction. We show that, although
a single Krasnikov tube does not involve closed timelike curves, a time machine
can be constructed with a system of two non-overlapping tubes. Furthermore, it
is demonstrated that Krasnikov tubes, like warp bubbles and traversable
wormholes, also involve unphysically thin layers of negative energy density, as
well as large total negative energies, and therefore probably cannot be
realized in practice.