It is well known that Einstein General Relativity can be expressed
covariantly in bi-metric spacetime, without the uncertainties which arise from
the effects of gravitational energy-momentum pseudo-tensors. However the effect
that the Strong Principle of Equivalence (SPOE) has on the curved and flat
bi-metric spacetime tetrad structure has not been fully explored. In the
context of bi-metric General Relativity the (SPOE) requires that: a) in the
absence of gravitation due to spacetime curvature a Global Inertial Cartesian
Minkowski (GICM) spacetime frame exists in which Special Relativity is valid
and, b) in the presence of gravitation due to spacetime curvature a bi-metric
Local Free Fall frame (LFF) must always exist. These two conditions required by
the (SPOE) are then shown to imply that a symmetric gravitational potential
tensor must exist in the bi-metric spacetime which is connected exponentially
to the tetrad inner product between the curved symmetric tetrads and the flat
background symmetric tetrads. It is then shown that this (SPOE) generated
gravitational potential tensor has the property of exponentially connecting the
curved metric tensor with the flat background metric tensor in a manner which
allows the condition of "Light Cone Causality" (LCC) to be dynamically
satisfied in the bi-metric spacetime. Substitution of this (LCC) conserving
exponential metric into the bi-metric Einstein field equations, subject to an
appropriate choice of tensor gauge conditions, yields an equivalent set of
(LCC) conserving bi-metric Einstein field equations for the gravitational
potential tensor, the full implications of which will be explored in future
papers.