We study a system of differential equations that governs the distribution of
matter in the theory of General Relativity. The new element in this paper is
the use of a dynamical action principle that includes all the degrees of
freedom, matter as well as metric. The matter lagrangian defines a relativistic
version of non-viscous, isentropic hydrodynamics. The matter fields are a
scalar density and a velocity potential; the conventional, four-vector velocity
field is replaced by the gradient of the potential and its scale is fixed by
one of the eulerian equations of motion, an innovation that significantly
affects the imposition of boundary conditions. If the density is integrable at
infinity, then the metric approaches the Schwarzschild metric at large
distances. There are stars without boundary and with finite total mass; the
metric shows rapid variation in the neighbourhood of the Schwarzschild radius
and there is a very small core where a singularity indicates that the gas laws
break down. For stars with boundary there emerges a new, critical relation
between the radius and the gravitational mass, a consequence of the stronger
boundary conditions. Tentative applications are suggested, to certain Red
Giants, and to neutron stars, but the investigation reported here was limited
to polytropic equations of state. Comparison with the results of Oppenheimer
and Volkoff on neutron cores shows a close agreement of numerical results.
However, in the model the boundary of the star is fixed uniquely by the
required matching of the interior metric to the external Schwarzschild metric,
which is not the case in the traditional approach.