We present a detailed dynamic light scattering study on the phase separation
in the ocular lens emerging during cold cataract development. Cold cataract is
a phase separation effect that proceeds via spinodal decomposition of the lens
cytoplasm with cooling. Intensity auto-correlation functions of the lens
protein content are analyzed with the aid of two methods providing information
on the populations and dynamics of the scattering elements associated with cold
cataract. It is found that the temperature dependence of many measurable
parameters changes appreciably at the characteristic temperature ~16+1 oC which
is associated with the onset of cold cataract. Extending the temperature range
of this work to previously inaccessible regimes, i.e. well below the phase
separation or coexistence curve at Tcc, we have been able to accurately
determine the temperature dependence of the collective and self-diffusion
coefficient of proteins near the spinodal. The analysis showed that the
dynamics of proteins bears some resemblance to the dynamics of structural
glasses where the apparent activation energy for particle diffusion increases
below Tcc indicating a highly cooperative motion. Application of ideas
developed for studying the critical dynamics of binary protein/solvent
mixtures, as well as the use of a modified Arrhenius equation, enabled us to
estimate the spinodal temperature Tsp of the lens nucleus. The applicability of
dynamic light scattering as a non-invasive, early-diagnostic tool for ocular
diseases is also demonstrated in the light of the findings of the present
paper.