A new approach to space-time asymptotics is presented, refining Penrose's
idea of conformal transformations with infinity represented by the conformal
boundary of space-time. Generalizing examples such as flat and Schwarzschild
space-times, it is proposed that the Penrose conformal factor be a product of
advanced and retarded conformal factors, which asymptotically relate physical
and conformal null (light-like) coordinates and vanish at future and past null
infinity respectively, with both vanishing at spatial infinity. A
correspondingly refined definition of asymptotic flatness at both spatial and
null infinity is given, including that the conformal boundary is locally a
light cone, with spatial infinity as the vertex. It is shown how to choose the
conformal factors so that this asymptotic light cone is locally a metric light
cone. The theory is implemented in the spin-coefficient (or null-tetrad)
formalism by a simple joint transformation of the spin-metric and spin-basis
(or metric and tetrad). The advanced and retarded conformal factors may be used
as expansion parameters near the respective null infinity, together with a
dependent expansion parameter for both spatial and null infinity, essentially
inverse radius. Asymptotic regularity conditions on the spin-coefficients are
proposed, based on the conformal boundary locally being a smoothly embedded
metric light cone. These conditions ensure that the Bondi-Sachs energy-flux
integrals of ingoing and outgoing gravitational radiation decay at spatial
infinity such that the total radiated energy is finite, and that the
Bondi-Sachs energy-momentum has a unique limit at spatial infinity, coinciding
with the uniquely rendered ADM energy-momentum.