A particle in the vicinity of a Schwarzschild black hole is known to trace a
geodesic of the Schwarzschild background, to a first approximation. If the
interaction of the particle with its own field (scalar, electromagnetic or
gravitational) is taken into account, the path is no longer a background
geodesic and the self-force that the particle experiences needs to be taken
into consideration.
 In this dissertation, a recently proposed method for the calculation of the
self-force is implemented. According to this method the self-force comes from
the interaction of the particle with the Regular-Remainder scalar field,
electromagnetic potential or metric perturbation. That Regular-Remainder is
obtained by subtracting the Singular part (which exerts no force) from the
retarded scalar field, electromagnetic potential of metric perturbation
generated by the moving particle. First, the Singular scalar fields,
electromagnetic potentials and metric perturbations are calculated for
different sources moving in a Schwarzschild background. For that, the
Thorne-Hartle-Zhang coordinates in the vicinity of the moving source are used.
Then a mode-sum regularization method initially proposed for the direct scalar
field is followed, and the regularization parameters for the singular part of
the scalar field and for the first radial derivative of the singular part of
the self-force are calculated. Also, the numerical calculation of the retarded
scalar field for a particle moving on a circular geodesic in a Schwarzschild
spacetime is presented. Finally, the self-force for a scalar particle moving on
a circular Schwarzschild orbit is calculated and some results about the effects
of the self-force on the orbital frequency of the circular orbit are presented.