The continued existence of any software industry depends on its capability to
develop nearly zero-defect product, which is achievable through effective
defect management. Inspection has proven to be one of the promising techniques
of defect management. Introductions of metrics like, Depth of Inspection (DI, a
process metric) and Inspection Performance Metric (IPM, a people metric) enable
one to have an appropriate measurement of inspection technique. This article
elucidates a mathematical approach to estimate the IPM value without depending
on shop floor defect count at every time. By applying multiple linear
regression models, a set of characteristic coefficients of the team is
evaluated. These coefficients are calculated from the empirical projects that
are sampled from the teams of product-based and service-based IT industries. A
sample of three verification projects indicates a close match between the IPM
values obtained from the defect count (IPMdc) and IPM values obtained using the
team coefficients using the mathematical model (IPMtc). The IPM values observed
onsite and IPM values produced by our model which are strongly matching,
support the predictive capability of IPM through team coefficients. Having
finalized the value of IPM that a company should achieve for a project, it can
tune the inspection influencing parameters to realize the desired quality level
of IPM. Evaluation of team coefficients resolves several defect-associated
issues, which are related to the management, stakeholders, outsourcing agents
and customers. In addition, the coefficient vector will further aid the
strategy of PSP and TSP