The advent of the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT), a millimeter-wave very-long
baseline interferometric array, has enabled spatially-resolved studies of the
sub-horizon-scale structure for a handful of supermassive black holes. Among
these, the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way, Sagittarius
A* (Sgr A*), presents the largest angular cross section. Thus far, these
studies have focused upon measurements of the black hole spin and the
validation of low-luminosity accretion models. However, a critical input into
the analysis of EHT data is the structure of the black hole spacetime, and thus
these observations provide the novel opportunity to test the applicability of
the Kerr metric to astrophysical black holes. Here we present the first
simulated images of a radiatively inefficient accretion flow (RIAF) around Sgr
A* employing a quasi-Kerr metric that contains an independent quadrupole moment
in addition to the mass and spin that fully characterize a black hole in
general relativity. We show that these images can be significantly different
from the images of a RIAF around a Kerr black hole with the same spin and
demonstrate the feasibility of testing the no-hair theorem by constraining the
quadrupolar deviation from the Kerr metric with existing EHT data. Equally
important, we find that the disk inclination and spin orientation angles are
robust to the inclusion of additional parameters, providing confidence in
previous estimations assuming the Kerr metric based upon EHT observations.
However, at present the limits upon potential modifications of the Kerr metric
remain weak.