We formulate a spherical harmonically decomposed 1+1 scheme to
self-consistently evolve the trajectory of a point particle and its
gravitational metric perturbation to a Schwarzschild background spacetime.
Following the work of Moncrief, we write down an action for perturbations in
space-time geometry, combine that with the action for a point-particle, and
then obtain Hamiltonian equations of motion for metric perturbations, the
particle's coordinates, as well as their canonical momenta. Hamiltonian
equations for the metric-perturbation and their conjugate momenta reduce to
Zerilli-Moncrief and Regge-Wheeler master equations with source terms, which
are gauge invariant, plus auxiliary equations that specify gauge. Hamiltonian
equations for the particle, on the other hand, now include effect of metric
perturbations - with these new terms derived from the same interaction
Hamiltonian that had lead to those well-known source terms. In this way,
space-time geometry and particle motion can be evolved in a self-consistent
manner, in principle in any gauge. However, the point-particle nature of our
source requires regularization, and we outline how the Detweiler-Whiting
approach can be applied. In this approach, a singular field can be obtained
using Hadamard decomposition of the Green's function and the regular field,
which needs to be evolved numerically, is the result of subtracting the
singular field from the total metric perturbation. In principle, any gauge that
has the singular-regular field decomposition is suitable for our
self-consistent scheme. In reality, however, this freedom is only possible if
our singular field has a high enough level of smoothness. In the case of Lorenz
gauge, for each l and m, we have 2 wave equations to evolve gauge invariant
quantities and 8 first order differential equations to fix the gauge and
determine the metric components.