An investigation is launched into the fundamental characteristics of
operations on and between sets, with a focus on compact convex sets and star
sets (compact sets star-shaped with respect to the origin) in $n$-dimensional
Euclidean space $\R^n$. For example, it is proved that if $n\ge 2$, with three
trivial exceptions, an operation between origin-symmetric compact convex sets
is continuous in the Hausdorff metric, GL(n) covariant, and associative if and
only if it is $L_p$ addition for some $1\le p\le\infty$. It is also
demonstrated that if $n\ge 2$, an operation * between compact convex sets is
continuous in the Hausdorff metric, GL(n) covariant, and has the identity
property (i.e., $K*\{o\}=K=\{o\}*K$ for all compact convex sets $K$, where $o$
denotes the origin) if and only if it is Minkowski addition. Some analogous
results for operations between star sets are obtained. An operation called
$M$-addition is generalized and systematically studied for the first time.
Geometric-analytic formulas that characterize continuous and GL(n)-covariant
operations between compact convex sets in terms of $M$-addition are
established. The term "polynomial volume" is introduced for the property of
operations * between compact convex or star sets that the volume of $rK*sL$,
$r,s\ge 0$, is a polynomial in the variables $r$ and $s$. It is proved that if
$n\ge 2$, with three trivial exceptions, an operation between origin-symmetric
compact convex sets is continuous in the Hausdorff metric, GL(n) covariant,
associative, and has polynomial volume if and only if it is Minkowski addition.