This paper extends parts of the results from [P.W.Michor and D. Mumford,
\emph{Appl. Comput. Harmon. Anal.,} 23 (2007), pp. 74--113] for plane curves to
the case of hypersurfaces in $\mathbb R^n$. Let $M$ be a compact connected
oriented $n-1$ dimensional manifold without boundary like the sphere or the
torus. Then shape space is either the manifold of submanifolds of $\mathbb R^n$
of type $M$, or the orbifold of immersions from $M$ to $\mathbb R^n$ modulo the
group of diffeomorphisms of $M$. We investigate almost local Riemannian metrics
on shape space. These are induced by metrics of the following form on the space
of immersions: $$ G_f(h,k) = \int_{M}
\Phi(\on{Vol}(f),\operatorname{Tr}(L))\g(h, k) \operatorname{vol}(f^*\g),$$
where $\g$ is the Euclidean metric on $\mathbb R^n$, $f^*\g$ is the induced
metric on $M$, $h,k\in C^\infty(M,\mathbb R^n)$ are tangent vectors at $f$ to
the space of embeddings or immersions, where $\Phi:\mathbb R^2\to \mathbb
R_{>0}$ is a suitable smooth function, $\operatorname{Vol}(f) =
\int_M\operatorname{vol}(f^*\g)$ is the total hypersurface volume of $f(M)$,
and the trace $\operatorname{Tr}(L)$ of the Weingarten mapping is the mean
curvature. For these metrics we compute the geodesic equations both on the
space of immersions and on shape space, the conserved momenta arising from the
obvious symmetries, and the sectional curvature. For special choices of $\Phi$
we give complete formulas for the sectional curvature. Numerical experiments
illustrate the behavior of these metrics.