Modern formulation of Finsler geometry of a manifold M utilizes the
equivalence between this geometry and the Riemannian geometry of VTM, the
vertical bundle over the tangent bundle of M, treating TM as the base space. We
argue that this approach is unsatisfactory when there is an indefinite metric
on M because the corresponding Finsler fundamental function would not be
differentiable over TM (even without its zero section) and therefore TM cannot
serve as the base space. We then make the simple observation that for any
differentiable Lorentzian metric on a smooth space-time, the corresponding
Finsler fundamental function is differentiable exactly on a proper subbundle of
TM. This subbundle is then used, in place of TM, to provide a satisfactory
basis for modern Finsler geometry of manifolds with Lorentzian metrics.
Interestingly, this Finslerian property of Lorentzian metrics does not seem to
exist for general indefinite Finsler metrics and thus, Lorentzian metrics
appear to be of special relevance to Finsler geometry. We note that, in
contrast to the traditional formulation of Finsler geometry, having a
Lorentzian metric in the modern setting does not imply reduction to pseudo-
Riemannian geometry because metric and connection are entirely disentangled in
the modern formulation and there is a new indispensable non-linear connection,
necessary for construction of Finsler tensor bundles. It is concluded that
general relativity--without any modification--has a close bearing on Finsler
geometry and a modern Finsler formulation of the theory is an appealing idea...