Citation metrics are becoming pervasive in the quantitative evaluation of
scholars, journals and institutions. More then ever before, hiring, promotion,
and funding decisions rely on a variety of impact metrics that cannot
disentangle quality from quantity of scientific output, and are biased by
factors such as discipline and academic age. Biases affecting the evaluation of
single papers are compounded when one aggregates citation-based metrics across
an entire publication record. It is not trivial to compare the quality of two
scholars that during their careers have published at different rates in
different disciplines in different periods of time. We propose a novel solution
based on the generation of a statistical baseline specifically tailored on the
academic profile of each researcher. Our method can decouple the roles of
quantity and quality of publications to explain how a certain level of impact
is achieved. The method is flexible enough to allow for the evaluation of, and
fair comparison among, arbitrary collections of papers --- scholar publication
records, journals, and entire institutions; and can be extended to
simultaneously suppresses any source of bias. We show that our method can
capture the quality of the work of Nobel laureates irrespective of number of
publications, academic age, and discipline, even when traditional metrics
indicate low impact in absolute terms. We further apply our methodology to
almost a million scholars and over six thousand journals to measure the impact
that cannot be explained by the volume of publications alone.