We consider warped compactifications in (4+d)-dimensional theories, with four
dimensional de Sitter dS_4 vacua (with Hubble parameter H) and with a compact
internal space. After introducing a gauge-invariant formalism for the generic
metric perturbations of these backgrounds, we focus on modes which are scalar
with respect to dS_4. The physical eigenmasses of these modes acquire a large
universal tachyonic contribution -12d/(d+2) H^2, independently of the
stabilization mechanism for the compact space, in addition to the usual KK
masses, which instead encode the effects of the stabilization. General
arguments, as well as specific examples, lead us to conjecture that, for
sufficiently large dS curvature, the compactified geometry becomes
gravitationally unstable due to the tachyonic growth of the scalar
perturbations. This mean that for any stabilization mechanism the curvature of
the dS geometry cannot exceed some critical value. We relate this effect to the
anisotropy of the bulk geometry and suggest the end points of the instability.
Of relevance for inflationary cosmology, the perturbations of the bulk metric
inevitably induce a new modulus field, which describes the conformal
fluctuations of the 4 dimensional metric. If this mode is light during
inflation, the induced conformal fluctuations will be amplified with a scale
free spectrum and with an amplitude which is disentangled from the standard
result of slow-roll inflation. The conformal 4d metric fluctuations give rise
to a very generic realization of the mechanism of modulated cosmological
fluctuations, related to spatial variation of couplings during (p)reheating
after inflation.