(Abridged) We present the results of M31 globular cluster (GC) X-ray source
survey, based on the data of XMM-Newton and Chandra observations covering ~6100
sq.arcmin of M31. We detected 43 X-ray sources coincident with globular cluster
candidates from optical surveys. The estimated isotropic X-ray luminosities of
GC sources lie between ~10e35 and ~10e39 erg/s in the 0.3 - 10 keV energy band.
The spectral properties and variability of M31 GC X-ray sources are consistent
with that derived for the LMXBs in the bulges of M31 and Milky Way. We found
that ~80% of the M31 GC sources with multiple flux measurements available show
significant variability on a time scales from days to years. The X-ray
luminosity function of GC sources is found to be significantly different from
that of the point sources in the bulge and disk of M31 and that of the Galactic
GC X-ray sources. GC sources make dominant contribution to the bright source
counts in the areas of M31 covered by the survey: ~40% of the total number of
sources with luminosities above 10e37 ergs/s reside in GCs with fraction of GC
sources rising to 67-90% for the luminosities above 10e38 ergs/s. The
contribution of the GC sources to the total number of bright sources found in
M31 is much higher than in the Milky Way galaxy, but surprisingly close to that
of the early-type galaxies. The brightest M31 GC sources tend to reside at
large galactocentric distances outside the central bulge. We found that
globular clusters hosting bright X-ray sources are optically brighter and more
metal rich than the rest of M31 globular clusters. The brightest sources with
luminosities above ~10e38 ergs/s show tendency to reside in more metal poor
clusters.