We consider the radiation reaction to the motion of a point-like particle of
mass $m$ and specific spin $S$ traveling on a curved background. Assuming
$S=O(Gm)$ and $Gm\ll L$ where $L$ is the length scale of the background
curvature, we divide the spacetime into two regions; the external region where
the metric is approximated by the background metric plus perturbations due to a
point-like particle and the internal region where the metric is approximated by
that of a black hole plus perturbations due to the tidal effect of the
background curvature, and use the technique of the matched asymptotic expansion
to construct an approximate metric which is valid over the entire region. In
this way, we avoid the divergent self-gravity at the position of the particle
and derive the equations of motion from the consistency condition of the
matching. The matching is done to the order necessary to include the effect of
radiation reaction of $O(Gm)$ with respect to the background metric as well as
the effect of spin-induced force. The reaction term of $O(Gm)$ is found to be
completely due to tails of radiation, that is, due to curvature scattering of
gravitational waves. In other words, the reaction force is found to depend on
the entire history of the particle trajectory. Defining a regularized metric
which consists of the back- ground metric plus the tail part of the perturbed
metric, we find the equations of motion reduce to the geodesic equation on this
regularized metric, except for the spin-induced force which is locally
expressed in terms of the curvature and spin tensors. Some implications of the
result and future issues are briefly discussed.