We present an approximate metric for a binary black hole spacetime to
construct initial data for numerical relativity. This metric is obtained by
asymptotically matching a post-Newtonian metric for a binary system to a
perturbed Schwarzschild metric for each hole. In the inner zone near each hole,
the metric is given by the Schwarzschild solution plus a quadrupolar
perturbation corresponding to an external tidal gravitational field. In the
near zone, well outside each black hole but less than a reduced wavelength from
the center of mass of the binary, the metric is given by a post-Newtonian
expansion including the lowest-order deviations from flat spacetime. When the
near zone overlaps each inner zone in a buffer zone, the post-Newtonian and
perturbed Schwarzschild metrics can be asymptotically matched to each other. By
demanding matching (over a 4-volume in the buffer zone) rather than patching
(choosing a particular 2-surface in the buffer zone), we guarantee that the
errors are small in all zones. The resulting piecewise metric is made formally
$C^\infty$ with smooth transition functions so as to obtain the finite
extrinsic curvature of a 3-slice. In addition to the metric and extrinsic
curvature, we present explicit results for the lapse and the shift, which can
be used as initial data for numerical simulations. This initial data is not
accurate all the way to the asymptotically flat ends inside each hole, and
therefore must be used with evolution codes which employ black hole excision
rather than puncture methods. This paper lays the foundations of a method that
can be sraightforwardly iterated to obtain initial data to higher perturbative
order.