The future LISA detector will constitute the prime instrument for
high-precision gravitational wave observations.LISA is expected to provide
information for the properties of spacetime in the vicinity of massive black
holes which reside in galactic nuclei.Such black holes can capture stellar-mass
compact objects, which afterwards slowly inspiral,radiating gravitational
waves.The body's orbital motion and the associated waveform carry information
about the spacetime metric of the massive black hole,and it is possible to
extract this information and experimentally identify (or not!) a Kerr black
hole.In this paper we lay the foundations for a practical `spacetime-mapping'
framework. Our work is based on the assumption that the massive body is not
necessarily a Kerr black hole, and that the vacuum exterior spacetime is
stationary axisymmetric,described by a metric which deviates slightly from the
Kerr metric. We first provide a simple recipe for building such a `quasi-Kerr'
metric by adding to the Kerr metric the deviation in the value of the
quadrupole moment. We then study geodesic motion in this metric,focusing on
equatorial orbits. We proceed by computing `kludge' waveforms which we compare
with their Kerr counterparts. We find that a modest deviation from the Kerr
metric is sufficient for producing a significant mismatch between the
waveforms, provided we fix the orbital parameters. This result suggests that an
attempt to use Kerr waveform templates for studying EMRIs around a non-Kerr
object might result in serious loss of signal-to-noise ratio and total number
of detected events. The waveform comparisons also unveil a `confusion' problem,
that is the possibility of matching a true non-Kerr waveform with a Kerr
template of different orbital parameters.