We review some basic concepts related to convex real projective structures
from the differential geometry point of view. We start by recalling a
Riemannian metric which originates in the study of affine spheres using the
Blaschke connection (work of Calabi and of Cheng-Yau) mentioning its relation
with the Hilbert metric. We then survey some of the deformation theory of
convex real projective structures on surfaces. We describe in particular how
the set of (Hilbert) lengths of simple closed curves is used in a
parametrization of the deformation space in analogy with the classical
Fenchel-Nielsen parameters of Teichm\"uller space (work of Goldman). We then
mention parameters of this deformation space that arise in the work of Hitchin
on the character variety of representations of the fundamental group of the
surface in $\mathrm{SL}(3,\mathbb{R})$. In this character variety, the
component of the character variety that corresponds to projective structures is
identified with the vector space of pairs of holomorphic quadratic and cubic
differentials over a fixed Riemann surface. Labourie and Loftin (independently)
obtained parameter spaces that use the cubic differentials and affine spheres.
We then display some similarities and differences between Hilbert geometry and
hyperbolic geometry using geodesic currents and topological entropy. Finally,
we discuss geodesic flows associated to Hilbert metrics and compactifications
of spaces of convex real projective structures on surfaces. This makes another
analogy with works done on the Teichm\"uller space of the surface.