We consider a system of nonlinear spinor and scalar fields with minimal
coupling in general relativity. The nonlinearity in the spinor field Lagrangian
is given by an arbitrary function of the invariants generated from the bilinear
spinor forms $S= {\bar \psi} \psi$ and $P=i {\bar \psi} \gamma^5 \psi$; the
scalar Lagrangian is chosen as an arbitrary function of the scalar invariant
${\Upsilon} = {\phi}_{,\alpha}{\phi}^{,\alpha}$, that becomes linear at
${\Upsilon} \to 0$. The spinor and the scalar fields in question interact with
each other by means of a gravitational field which is given by a
plane-symmetric metric. Exact plane-symmetric solutions to the gravitational,
spinor and scalar field equations have been obtained. Role of gravitational
field in the formation of the field configurations with limited total energy,
spin and charge has been investigated. Influence of the change of the sign of
energy density of the spinor and scalar fields on the properties of the
configurations obtained has been examined. It has been established that under
the change of the sign of the scalar field energy density the system in
question can be realized physically iff the scalar charge does not exceed some
critical value. In case of spinor field no such restriction on its parameter
occurs. In general it has been shown that the choice of spinor field
nonlinearity can lead to the elimination of scalar field contribution to the
metric functions, but leaving its contribution to the total energy unaltered.
  Key words: Nonlinear spinor field (NLSF), nonlinear scalar field,
plane-symmetric metric PACS: 03.65.P, 04.20.H