Let $\overline{M}$ be a smooth manifold with boundary $\partial M$ and
interior $M$. Consider an affine connection $\nabla$ on $M$ for which the
boundary is at infinity. Then $\nabla$ is projectively compact of order
$\alpha$ if the projective structure defined by $\nabla$ smoothly extends to
all of $\overline{M}$ in a specific way that depends on no particular choice of
boundary defining function. Via the Levi--Civita connection, this concept
applies to pseudo--Riemannian metrics on $M$. We study the relation between
interior geometry and the possibilities for compactification, and then develop
the tools that describe the induced geometry on the boundary.
  We prove that a pseudo--Riemannian metric on $M$ which is projectively
compact of order two admits a certain asymptotic form. This form was known to
be sufficient for projective compactness, so the result establishes that it
provides an equivalent characterization.
  From a projectively compact connection on $M$, one obtains a projective
structure on $\overline{M}$, which induces a conformal class of (possibly
degenerate) bundle metrics on the tangent bundle to the hypersurface $\partial
M$. Using the asymptotic form, we prove that in the case of metrics, which are
projectively compact of order two, this boundary structure is always
non--degenerate. We also prove that in this case the metric is necessarily
asymptotically Einstein, in a natural sense.
  Finally, a non--degenerate boundary geometry gives rise to a (conformal)
standard tractor bundle endowed with a canonical linear connection, and we
explicitly describe these in terms of the projective data of the interior
geometry.