We present a systematic treatment of the linear theory of scalar
gravitational perturbations in the synchronous gauge and the conformal
Newtonian (or longitudinal) gauge. We first derive the transformation law
relating the two gauges. We then write down in parallel in both gauges the
coupled, linearized Boltzmann, Einstein and fluid equations that govern the
evolution of the metric perturbations and the density fluctuations of the
particle species. The particle species considered include cold dark matter
(CDM), baryons, photons, massless neutrinos, and massive neutrinos (a hot dark
matter or HDM candidate), where the CDM and baryon components are treated as
fluids while a detailed phase-space description is given to the photons and
neutrinos. The linear evolution equations presented are applicable to any
$\Omega=1$ model with CDM or a mixture of CDM and HDM. Isentropic initial
conditions on super-horizon scales are derived. The equations are solved
numerically in both gauges for a CDM+HDM model with $\Omega_{\rm cold}=0.65,$
$\Omega_{\rm hot}=0.3$, and $\Omega_{\rm baryon}=0.05$. We discuss the
evolution of the metric and the density perturbations and compare their
different behaviors outside the horizon in the two gauges. In a companion paper
we integrate the geodesic equations for the neutrino particles in the perturbed
conformal Newtonian background metric computed here. The purpose is to obtain
an accurate sampling of the neutrino phase space for the HDM initial conditions
in $N$-body simulations of the CDM+HDM models.