We introduce partial secondary invariants associated to complete Riemannian
metrics which have uniformly positive scalar curvature outside a prescribed
subset on a spin manifold. These can be used to distinguish such Riemannian
metrics up to concordance relative the prescribed subset. We exhibit a general
external product formula for partial secondary invariants, from which we deduce
product formulas for the higher rho-invariant of a metric with uniformly
positive scalar curvature as well as for the higher relative index of two
metrics with uniformly positive scalar curvature. Our methods yield a new
conceptual proof of the secondary partitioned manifold index theorem and a
refined version of the delocalized APS-index theorem of Piazza-Schick for the
spinor Dirac operator in all dimensions. We establish a partitioned manifold
index theorem for the higher relative index. We also show that secondary
invariants are stable with respect to direct products with aspherical manifolds
that have fundamental groups of finite asymptotic dimension. Moreover, we
construct examples of complete metrics with uniformly positive scalar curvature
on non-compact spin manifolds which can be distinguished up to concordance
relative subsets which are coarsely negligible in a certain sense. A technical
novelty in this paper is that we use Yu's localization algebras in combination
with the description of K-theory for graded C*-algebras due to Trout. This
formalism allows direct definitions of all the invariants we consider in terms
of the functional calculus of the Dirac operator and enables us to give concise
proofs of the product formulas.