In recent decades, a number of centrality metrics describing network
properties of nodes have been proposed to rank the importance of nodes. In
order to understand the correlations between centrality metrics and to
approximate a high-complexity centrality metric by a strongly correlated
low-complexity metric, we ?first study the correlation between centrality
metrics in terms of their Pearson correlation coefficient and their similarity
in ranking of nodes. In addition to considering the widely used centrality
metrics, we introduce a new centrality measure, the degree mass. The m order
degree mass of a node is the sum of the weighted degree of the node and its
neighbors no further than m hops away. We find that the B_{n}, the closeness,
and the components of x_{1} are strongly correlated with the degree, the
1st-order degree mass and the 2nd-order degree mass, respectively, in both
network models and real-world networks. We then theoretically prove that the
Pearson correlation coefficient between x_{1} and the 2nd-order degree mass is
larger than that between x_{1} and a lower order degree mass. Finally, we
investigate the effect of the inflexible antagonists selected based on
different centrality metrics in helping one opinion to compete with another in
the inflexible antagonists opinion model. Interestingly, we find that selecting
the inflexible antagonists based on the leverage, the B_{n}, or the degree is
more effective in opinion-competition than using other centrality metrics in
all types of networks. This observation is supported by our previous
observations, i.e., that there is a strong linear correlation between the
degree and the B_{n}, as well as a high centrality similarity between the
leverage and the degree.