We consider an extension of the Weyl-Cartan-Weitzenb\"{o}ck (WCW) and
teleparallel gravity, in which the Weitzenb\"{o}ck condition of the exact
cancellation of curvature and torsion in a Weyl-Cartan geometry is inserted
into the gravitational action via a Lagrange multiplier. In the standard metric
formulation of the WCW model, the flatness of the space-time is removed by
imposing the Weitzenb\"{o}ck condition in the Weyl-Cartan geometry, where the
dynamical variables are the space-time metric, the Weyl vector and the torsion
tensor, respectively. However, once the Weitzenb\"{o}ck condition is imposed on
the Weyl-Cartan space-time, the metric is not dynamical, and the gravitational
dynamics and evolution is completely determined by the torsion tensor. We show
how to resolve this difficulty, and generalize the WCW model, by imposing the
Weitzenb\"{o}ck condition on the action of the gravitational field through a
Lagrange multiplier. The gravitational field equations are obtained from the
variational principle, and they explicitly depend on the Lagrange multiplier.
As a particular model we consider the case of the Riemann-Cartan space-times
with zero non-metricity, which mimics the teleparallel theory of gravity. The
Newtonian limit of the model is investigated, and a generalized Poisson
equation is obtained, with the weak field gravitational potential explicitly
depending on the Lagrange multiplier and on the Weyl vector. The cosmological
implications of the theory are also studied, and three classes of exact
cosmological models are considered.