Marcus, Spielman, and Srivastava in their seminal work \cite{MSS13} resolved
the Kadison-Singer conjecture by proving that for any set of finitely supported
independently distributed random vectors $v_1,\dots, v_n$ which have "small"
expected squared norm and are in isotropic position (in expectation), there is
a positive probability that the sum $\sum v_i v_i^\intercal$ has small spectral
norm. Their proof crucially employs real stability of polynomials which is the
natural generalization of real-rootedness to multivariate polynomials.
  Strongly Rayleigh distributions are families of probability distributions
whose generating polynomials are real stable \cite{BBL09}. As independent
distributions are just special cases of strongly Rayleigh measures, it is a
natural question to see if the main theorem of \cite{MSS13} can be extended to
families of vectors assigned to the elements of a strongly Rayleigh
distribution.
  In this paper we answer this question affirmatively; we show that for any
homogeneous strongly Rayleigh distribution where the marginal probabilities are
upper bounded by $\epsilon_1$ and any isotropic set of vectors assigned to the
underlying elements whose norms are at most $\sqrt{\epsilon_2}$, there is a set
in the support of the distribution such that the spectral norm of the sum of
the natural quadratic forms of the vectors assigned to the elements of the set
is at most $O(\epsilon_1+\epsilon_2)$. We employ our theorem to provide a
sufficient condition for the existence of spectrally thin trees. This, together
with a recent work of the contributors \cite{AO14}, provides an improved upper bound
on the integrality gap of the natural LP relaxation of the Asymmetric Traveling
Salesman Problem.