The aim of this paper is to construct accelerated, stationary and
axisymmetric exact solutions of the Einstein theory with self interacting
scalar fields in (A)dS4. To warm up, the backreaction of the (non)-minimally
coupled scalar field is solved, the scalar field equations are integrated and
all the potentials compatible with the metric ansatz and Einstein gravity are
found. With these results at hand the non-linear sigma model is tackled. The
scalar field Lagrangian is generic; neither the coupling to the curvature,
neither the metric in the scalar manifold nor the potential, are fixed ab
initio. The unique assumption in the analysis is the metric ansatz: it has the
form of the most general Petrov type D vacuum solution of general relativity;
it is a a cohomogeneity two Weyl rescaling of the Carter metric and therefore
it has the typical Plebanski-Demianski form with two arbitrary functions of one
variable and one arbitrary functions of two variables. It is shown, by an
straightforward manipulation of the field equations, that the metric is
completely integrable without necessity of specifiying anything in the scalar
Lagrangian. This results in that the backreaction of the scalar fields, within
this class of metrics, is universal. The metric functions generically show an
explicit dependence on a dynamical exponent that allows to smoothly connect
this new family of solutions with the actual Plebanski-Demianski spacetime. The
remaining field equations imply that the scalar fields follow geodesics in the
scalar manifold with an affine parameter given by a non-linear function of the
spacetime coordinates and define the on-shell form of the potential plus a
functional equation that it has to satisfy. Finally, a general family of (A)dS4
static hairy black holes is explicitly constructed and its properties are
outlined.