In the context of inflationary scenarios, the observed large angle anisotropy
of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) temperature is believed to probe the
primordial metric perturbations from inflation. Although the perturbations from
inflation are expected to be gaussian random fields, there remains the
possibility that nonlinear processes at later epochs induce ``secondary''
non-gaussian features in the corresponding CMB anisotropy maps. The
non-gaussianity induced by nonlinear gravitational instability of scalar
(density) perturbations has been investigated in existing literature. In this
paper, we highlight another source of non-gaussianity arising out of higher
order scattering of CMB photons off the metric perturbations. We provide a
simple and elegant formalism for deriving the CMB temperature fluctuations
arising due to the Sachs-Wolfe effect beyond the linear order. In particular,
we derive the expression for the second order CMB temperature fluctuations. The
multiple scattering effect pointed out in this paper leads to the possibility
that tensor metric perturbation, i.e., gravity waves (GW) which do not exhibit
gravitational instability can still contribute to the skewness in the CMB
anisotropy maps. We find that in a flat $\Omega =1$ universe, the skewness in
CMB contributed by gravity waves via multiple scattering effect is comparable
to that from the gravitational instability of scalar perturbations for equal
contribution of the gravity waves and scalar perturbations to the total rms CMB
anisotropy. The secondary skewness is found to be smaller than the cosmic
variance leading to the conclusion that inflationary scenarios do predict that
the observed CMB anisotropy should be statistically consistent with a gaussian
random distribution.