We study the cosmic microwave background temperature and polarisation spectra
sourced by multi-tension cosmic superstring networks. First we obtain solutions
for the characteristic length scales and velocities associated with the
evolution of a network of F-D strings, allowing for the formation of junctions
between strings of different tensions. We find two distinct regimes describing
the resulting scaling distributions for the relative densities of the different
types of strings, depending on the magnitude of the fundamental string coupling
g_s. In one of them, corresponding to the value of the coupling being of order
unity, the network's stress-energy power spectrum is dominated by populous
light F and D strings, while the other regime, at smaller values of g_s, has
the spectrum dominated by rare heavy D strings. These regimes are seen in the
CMB anisotropies associated with the network. We focus on the dependence of the
shape of the B-mode polarisation spectrum on g_s and show that measuring the
peak position of the B-mode spectrum can point to a particular value of the
string coupling. Finally, we assess how this result, along with pulsar bounds
on the production of gravitational waves from strings, can be used to constrain
a combination of g_s and the fundamental string tension mu_F. Since CMB and
pulsar bounds constrain different combinations of the string tensions and
densities, they result in distinct shapes of bounding contours in the (mu_F,
g_s) parameter plane, thus providing complementary constraints on the
properties of cosmic superstrings.