The spread of non-indigenous species (NIS) through the global shipping
network (GSN) has enormous ecological and economic cost throughout the world.
Previous attempts at quantifying NIS invasions have mostly taken "bottom-up"
approaches that eventually require the use of multiple simplifying assumptions
due to insufficiency and/or uncertainty of available data. By modeling implicit
species exchanges via a graph abstraction that we refer to as the Species Flow
Network (SFN), a different approach that exploits the power of network science
methods in extracting knowledge from largely incomplete data is presented.
Here, coarse-grained species flow dynamics are studied via a graph clustering
approach that decomposes the SFN to clusters of ports and inter-cluster
connections. With this decomposition of ports in place, NIS flow among clusters
can be very efficiently reduced by enforcing NIS management on a few chosen
inter-cluster connections. Furthermore, efficient NIS management strategy for
species exchanges within a cluster (often difficult due higher rate of travel
and pathways) are then derived in conjunction with ecological and environmental
aspects that govern the species establishment. The benefits of the presented
approach include robustness to data uncertainties, implicit incorporation of
"stepping-stone" spread of invasive species, and decoupling of species spread
and establishment risk estimation. Our analysis of a multi-year (1997--2006)
GSN dataset using the presented approach shows the existence of a few large
clusters of ports with higher intra-cluster species flow that are fairly stable
over time. Furthermore, detailed investigations were carried out on vessel
types, ports, and inter-cluster connections. Finally, our observations are
discussed in the context of known NIS invasions and future research directions
are also presented.