Over the past few decades, tremendous progress has been made in the
development of particle-based discrete simulation methods versus the
conventional continuum-based methods. In particular, the lattice Boltzmann (LB)
method has evolved from a theoretical novelty to a ubiquitous, versatile and
powerful computational methodology for both fundamental research and
engineering applications. It is a kinetic-based mesoscopic approach that
bridges the microscales and macroscales, which offers distinctive advantages in
simulation fidelity and computational efficiency. Applications of the LB method
have been found in a wide range of disciplines including physics, chemistry,
materials, biomedicine and various branches of engineering. The present work
provides a comprehensive review of the LB method for thermofluids and energy
applications, focusing on multiphase flows, thermal flows and thermal
multiphase flows with phase change. The review first covers the theoretical
framework of the LB method, revealing the existing inconsistencies and defects
as well as common features of multiphase and thermal LB models. Recent
developments in improving the thermodynamic and hydrodynamic consistency,
reducing the spurious currents, enhancing the numerical stability, etc., are
highlighted. These efforts have put the LB method on a firmer theoretical
foundation with enhanced LB models that can achieve larger liquid-gas density
ratio, higher Reynolds number and flexible surface tension. Examples of
applications are provided in fuel cells and batteries, droplet collision,
boiling heat transfer and evaporation, and energy storage. Finally, further
developments and future prospect of the LB method are outlined for thermofluids
and energy applications.