We investigate the problem of distributed sensors' failure detection in
networks with a small number of defective sensors, whose measurements differ
significantly from neighboring sensor measurements. Defective sensors are
represented by non-zero values in binary sparse signals. We build on the sparse
nature of the binary sensor failure signals and propose a new distributed
detection algorithm based on Group Testing (GT). The distributed GT algorithm
estimates the set of defective sensors from a small number of linearly
independent binary messages exchanged by the sensors. The distributed GT
algorithm uses a low complexity distance decoder that is robust to noisy
messages. We first consider networks with only one defective sensor and
determine the minimal number of linearly independent messages needed for
detection of the defective sensor with high probability. We then extend our
study to the detection of multiple defective sensors by modifying appropriately
the message exchange protocol and the decoding procedure. We show through
experimentation that, for small and medium sized networks, the number of
messages required for successful detection is actually smaller than the minimal
number computed in the analysis. Simulations demonstrate that the proposed
method outperforms methods based on random walk measurements collection in
terms of detection performance and convergence rate. Finally, the proposed
method is resilient to network dynamics due to the effective gossip-based
message dissemination protocol.