A fundamental problem in wireless networks is the \emph{minimum spanning
tree} (MST) problem: given a set $V$ of wireless nodes, compute a spanning tree
$T$, so that the total cost of $T$ is minimized. In recent years, there has
been a lot of interest in the physical interference model based on SINR
constraints. Distributed algorithms are especially challenging in the SINR
model, because of the non-locality of the model.
  In this paper, we develop a fast distributed approximation algorithm for MST
construction in an SINR based distributed computing model. For an $n$-node
network, our algorithm's running time is $O(D\log{n}+\mu\log{n})$ and produces
a spanning tree whose cost is within $O(\log n)$ times the optimal (MST cost),
where $D$ denotes the diameter of the disk graph obtained by using the maximum
possible transmission range, and $\mu=\log{\frac{d_{max}}{d_{min}}}$ denotes
the "distance diversity" w.r.t. the largest and smallest distances between two
nodes. (When $\frac{d_{max}}{d_{min}}$ is $n$-polynomial, $\mu = O(\log n)$.)
Our algorithm's running time is essentially optimal (upto a logarithmic
factor), since computing {\em any} spanning tree takes $\Omega(D)$ time; thus
our algorithm produces a low cost spanning tree in time only a logarithmic
factor more than the time to compute a spanning tree. The distributed
scheduling complexity of the spanning tree resulted from our algorithm is
$O(\mu \log n)$. Our algorithmic design techniques can be useful in designing
efficient distributed algorithms for related "global" problems in wireless
networks in the SINR model.