In social network analysis, there is a common perception that influence is
relevant to determine the global behavior of the society and thus it can be
used to enforce cooperation by targeting an adequate initial set of individuals
or to analyze global choice processes. Here we propose centrality measures that
can be used to analyze the relevance of the actors in process related to spread
of influence. In [39] it was considered a multiagent system in which the agents
are eager to perform a collective task depending on the perception of the
willingness to perform the task of other individuals. The setting is modeled
using a notion of simple games called influence games. Those games are defined
on graphs were the nodes are labeled by their influence threshold and the
spread of influence between its nodes is used to determine whether a coalition
is winning or not. Influence games provide tools to measure the importance of
the actors of a social network by means of classic power indices and provide a
framework to consider new centrality criteria. In this paper we consider two of
the most classical power indices, i.e., Banzhaf and Shapley-Shubik indices, as
centrality measures for social networks in influence games. Although there is
some work related to specific scenarios of game-theoretic networks, here we use
such indices as centrality measures in any social network where the spread of
influence phenomenon can be applied. Further, we define new centrality measures
such as satisfaction and effort that, as far as we know, have not been
considered so far. We also perform a comparison of the proposed measures with
other three classic centrality measures, degree, closeness and betweenness,
considering three social networks. We show that in some cases our measurements
provide centrality hierarchies similar to those of other measures, while in
other cases provide different hierarchies.