While recent advances in spatial and temporal networks have enabled
researchers to more-accurately describe many real-world systems, existing
models do not capture the combined constraint that space and time impose on the
relationships and interactions present in a spatio-temporal complex network.
This has important consequences, often resulting in an over-simplification of
the resilience of a system and obscuring the network's true structure. In this
paper, we study the response of spatio-temporal complex networks to random
error and systematic attack. Firstly, we propose a model of spatio-temporal
paths in time-varying spatially embedded networks. This model captures the
property that, in many real-world systems, interaction between nodes is
non-instantaneous and governed by the space in which they are embedded.
Secondly, using numerical experiments on four empirical examples of such
systems, we study the effect of node failure on a network's topological,
temporal, and spatial structure. We find that networks exhibit divergent
behaviour with respect to random error and systematic attack. Finally, to
identify weaknesses specific to the behaviour of a spatio-temporal system, we
introduce centrality measures that evaluate the importance of a node as a
structural bridge and its role in supporting temporally efficient flow through
the network. We explore the disruption to each system caused by attack
strategies based on each of these centrality measures. This exposes the complex
nature of fragility in a spatio-temporal system, showing that there is a
variety of failure modes when a network is subject to systematic attack.