Elliptical cluster galaxies are progressively stripped of their atmospheres
due to their motion through the intra-cluster medium (ICM). Deep X-ray
observations reveal the fine-structure of the galaxy's remnant atmosphere and
its gas tail and wake. This fine-structure depends on dynamic conditions
(galaxy potential, initial gas contents, orbit through the host cluster),
orbital stage (early infall, pre-/post-pericenter passage), and ICM plasma
properties (thermal conductivity, viscosity, magnetic field structure). We aim
to disentangle dynamic and plasma effects in order to use stripped ellipticals
as probes of ICM plasma properties. This first paper of a series investigates
the hydrodynamics of progressive gas stripping by means of inviscid
hydrodynamical simulations. We distinguish a long-lasting initial relaxation
phase and a quasi-steady stripping phase. During quasi-steady stripping, the
ICM flow around the remnant atmosphere resembles the flow around solid bodies,
including a `deadwater' region in the near wake. Gas is stripped from the
remnant atmosphere predominantly at its sides via Kelvin-Helmholtz
instabilities. The downstream atmosphere is largely shielded from the ICM wind
and thus shaped into a tail. Observationally, both, this `remnant tail' and the
stripped gas in the wake can appear as a `tail', but only in the wake can
galactic gas mix with the ambient ICM. While the qualitative results are
generic, the simulations presented here are tailored to the Virgo elliptical
galaxy M89 (NGC 4552) for the most direct comparison to observations. Papers II
and III of this series describe the effect of viscosity and compare to Chandra
and XMM-Newton observations, respectively.