In probability density function (PDF) methods of turbulent flows, the joint
PDF of several flow variables is computed by numerically integrating a system
of stochastic differential equations for Lagrangian particles. A mathematically
exact treatment of advection, viscous effects and arbitrarily complex chemical
reactions is possible; these processes are treated without closure assumptions.
A set of algorithms is proposed to provide an efficient solution of the PDF
transport equation modeling the joint PDF of turbulent velocity, frequency and
concentration of a passive scalar in geometrically complex configurations. An
unstructured Eulerian grid is employed to extract Eulerian statistics, to solve
for quantities represented at fixed locations of the domain and to track
particles. All three aspects regarding the grid make use of the finite element
method. Compared to hybrid methods, the current methodology is stand-alone,
therefore it is consistent both numerically and at the level of turbulence
closure without the use of consistency conditions. Several newly developed
algorithms are described that facilitate the numerical solution in complex flow
geometries, including a stabilized mean-pressure projection scheme, the
estimation of conditional and unconditional Eulerian statistics and their
derivatives from stochastic particle fields, particle tracking through
unstructured grids, an efficient particle redistribution procedure and
techniques related to efficient random number generation. The solver has been
parallelized and optimized for shared memory and multi-core architectures using
the OpenMP standard. Relevant aspects of performance and parallelism on
cache-based shared memory machines are discussed and presented in detail. The
methodology shows great promise in the simulation of high-Reynolds-number
incompressible inert or reactive turbulent flows in realistic configurations.