One of the most influential recent results in network analysis is that many
natural networks exhibit a power-law or log-normal degree distribution. This
has inspired numerous generative models that match this property. However, more
recent work has shown that while these generative models do have the right
degree distribution, they are not good models for real life networks due to
their differences on other important metrics like conductance. We believe this
is, in part, because many of these real-world networks have very different
joint degree distributions, i.e. the probability that a randomly selected edge
will be between nodes of degree k and l. Assortativity is a sufficient
statistic of the joint degree distribution, and it has been previously noted
that social networks tend to be assortative, while biological and technological
networks tend to be disassortative.
  We suggest understanding the relationship between network structure and the
joint degree distribution of graphs is an interesting avenue of further
research. An important tool for such studies are algorithms that can generate
random instances of graphs with the same joint degree distribution. This is the
main topic of this paper and we study the problem from both a theoretical and
practical perspective. We provide an algorithm for constructing simple graphs
from a given joint degree distribution, and a Monte Carlo Markov Chain method
for sampling them. We also show that the state space of simple graphs with a
fixed degree distribution is connected via end point switches. We empirically
evaluate the mixing time of this Markov Chain by using experiments based on the
autocorrelation of each edge. These experiments show that our Markov Chain
mixes quickly on real graphs, allowing for utilization of our techniques in
practice.