It is found that the ideal magnetohydrodynamic equilibrium of an axisymmetric
gravitating magnetically confined plasma with incompressible flows is governed
by a second-order elliptic differential equation for the poloidal magnetic flux
function containing five flux functions coupled with a Poisson equation for the
gravitation potential, and an algebraic relation for the pressure. This set of
equations is amenable to analytic solutions. As an application, the
magnetic-dipole static axisymmetric equilibria with vanishing poloidal plasma
currents derived recently by Krasheninnikov, Catto, and Hazeltine [Phys. Rev.
Lett. {\bf 82}, 2689 (1999)] are extended to plasmas with finite poloidal
currents, subject to gravitating forces from a massive body (a star or black
hole) and inertial forces due to incompressible sheared flows. Explicit
solutions are obtained in two regimes: (a) in the low-energy regime
$\beta_0\approx \gamma_0\approx \delta_0 \approx\epsilon_0\ll 1$, where
$\beta_0$, $\gamma_0$, $\delta_0$, and $\epsilon_0$ are related to the thermal,
poloidal-current, flow and gravitating energies normalized to the
poloidal-magnetic-field energy, respectively, and (b) in the high-energy regime
$\beta_0\approx \gamma_0\approx \delta_0 \approx\epsilon_0\gg 1$. It turns out
that in the high-energy regime all four forces, pressure-gradient,
toroidal-magnetic-field, inertial, and gravitating contribute equally to the
formation of magnetic surfaces very extended and localized about the symmetry
plane such that the resulting equilibria resemble the accretion disks in
astrophysics.