n an early approach, we proposed a kinetic model with multiple translational
temperature [K. Xu, H. Liu and J. Jiang, Phys. Fluids {\bf 19}, 016101 (2007)],
to simulate non-equilibrium flows. In this paper, instead of using three
temperatures in $x-$, $y-$, and $z$-directions, we are going to further define
the translational temperature as a second-order symmetric tensor. Based on a
multiple stage BGK-type collision model and the Chapman-Enskog expansion, the
corresponding macroscopic gas dynamics equations in three-dimensional space
will be derived. The zeroth-order expansion gives the 10 moment closure
equations of Levermore [C.D. Levermore, J. Stat. Phys {\bf 83}, pp.1021
(1996)]. To the 1st-order expansion, the derived gas dynamic equations can be
considered as a regularization of Levermore's 10 moments equations. The new gas
dynamic equations have the same structure as the Navier-Stokes equations, but
the stress strain relationship in the Navier-Stokes equations is replaced by an
algebraic equation with temperature differences. At the same time, the heat
flux, which is absent in Levermore's 10 moment closure, is recovered. As a
result, both the viscous and the heat conduction terms are unified under a
single anisotropic temperature concept. In the continuum flow regime, the new
gas dynamic equations automatically recover the standard Navier-Stokes
equations. The current gas dynamic equations are natural extension of the
Navier-Stokes equations to the near continuum flow regime and can be used for
microflow computations. Two examples, the force-driven Poiseuille flow and the
Couette flow in the transition flow regime, are used to validate the model.
Both analytical and numerical results are encouraging.