We present the latest results of the Clusters in the Zone of Avoidance (CIZA)
survey, which is mapping the large-scale matter distribution behind the Milky
Way by performing the first systematic search for X-ray luminous galaxy
clusters at low Galactic latitudes. The survey's approach, which uses X-ray
emission to locate cluster candidates, overcomes the problems faced by
optically selected cluster surveys which have traditionally avoided this region
of the sky due to the severe extinction present along the Galactic plane. We
here present the second flux-limited CIZA cluster catalog containing 60 X-ray
luminous galaxy clusters, 88% of which are new discoveries. We also examine the
degree to which known superclusters extend into the Zone of Avoidance and
highlight newly discovered structures which have previously gone unnoticed. We
show that the survey has found far fewer rich clusters in the Great Attractor
region than would be expected given the region's proposed mass. Instead, we
find a significant increase in the number of clusters behind the Great
Attractor, with the most notable being an association of clusters near the
Shapley supercluster. We propose these clusters trace an extension of the
large-scale filament network in which the Shapley concentration is embedded. We
also highlight an association of clusters near the Galactic anticenter, which
is the first supercluster found to be completely hidden by the Milky Way. Our
finding of a less massive Great Attractor and the detection of significant
structures behind the complex supports studies which suggest the motion of
nearby galaxies, including that of the Local Group, is due, in part, to a
large-scale bulk flow which is induced by overdensities beyond the Great
Attractor region.