Understanding cultural phenomena on Social Networks (SNs) and exploiting the
implicit knowledge about their members is attracting the interest of different
research communities both from the academic and the business side. The
community of complexity science is devoting significant efforts to define laws,
models, and theories, which, based on acquired knowledge, are able to predict
future observations (e.g. success of a product). In the mean time, the semantic
web community aims at engineering a new generation of advanced services by
defining constructs, models and methods, adding a semantic layer to SNs. In
this context, a leapfrog is expected to come from a hybrid approach merging the
disciplines above. Along this line, this work focuses on the propagation of
individual interests in social networks. The proposed framework consists of the
following main components: a method to gather information about the members of
the social networks; methods to perform some semantic analysis of the Domain of
Interest; a procedure to infer members' interests; and an interests evolution
theory to predict how the interests propagate in the network. As a result, one
achieves an analytic tool to measure individual features, such as members'
susceptibilities and contributorities. Although the approach applies to any type of
social network, here it is has been tested against the computer science
research community.
  The DBLP (Digital Bibliography and Library Project) database has been elected
as test-case since it provides the most comprehensive list of scientific
production in this field.