When someone mentions the name of a known person we immediately recall her
face and possibly many other traits. This is because we possess the so-called
associative memory, that is the ability to correlate different memories to the
same fact or event. Associative memory is such a fundamental and encompassing
human ability (and not just human) that the network of neurons in our brain
must perform it quite easily. The question is then whether electronic neural
networks (electronic schemes that act somewhat similarly to human brains) can
be built to perform this type of function. Although the field of neural
networks has developed for many years, a key element, namely the synapses
between adjacent neurons, has been lacking a satisfactory electronic
representation. The reason for this is that a passive circuit element able to
reproduce the synapse behaviour needs to remember its past dynamical history,
store a continuous set of states, and be "plastic" according to the
pre-synaptic and post-synaptic neuronal activity. Here we show that all this
can be accomplished by a memory-resistor (memristor for short). In particular,
by using simple and inexpensive off-the-shelf components we have built a
memristor emulator which realizes all required synaptic properties. Most
importantly, we have demonstrated experimentally the formation of associative
memory in a simple neural network consisting of three electronic neurons
connected by two memristor-emulator synapses. This experimental demonstration
opens up new possibilities in the understanding of neural processes using
memory devices, an important step forward to reproduce complex learning,
adaptive and spontaneous behaviour with electronic neural networks.