Social hierarchy (i.e., pyramid structure of societies) is a fundamental
concept in sociology and social network analysis. The importance of social
hierarchy in a social network is that the topological structure of the social
hierarchy is essential in both shaping the nature of social interactions
between individuals and unfolding the structure of the social networks. The
social hierarchy found in a social network can be utilized to improve the
accuracy of link prediction, provide better query results, rank web pages, and
study information flow and spread in complex networks. In this paper, we model
a social network as a directed graph G, and consider the social hierarchy as
DAG (directed acyclic graph) of G, denoted as GD. By DAG, all the vertices in G
can be partitioned into different levels, the vertices at the same level
represent a disjoint group in the social hierarchy, and all the edges in DAG
follow one direction. The main issue we study in this paper is how to find DAG
GD in G. The approach we take is to find GD by removing all possible cycles
from G such that G = U(G) + GD where U(G) is a maximum Eulerian subgraph which
contains all possible cycles. We give the reasons for doing so, investigate the
properties of GD found, and discuss the applications. In addition, we develop a
novel two-phase algorithm, called Greedy-&-Refine, which greedily computes an
Eulerian subgraph and then refines this greedy solution to find the maximum
Eulerian subgraph. We give a bound between the greedy solution and the optimal.
The quality of our greedy approach is high. We conduct comprehensive
experimental studies over 14 real-world datasets. The results show that our
algorithms are at least two orders of magnitude faster than the baseline
algorithm.