An algorithm for the detection of overlapping natural communities in networks
was proposed by Lancichinetti, Fortunato, and Kertesz (LFK) last year. The LFK
algorithm constructs natural communities of (in principle) all nodes of a graph
by maximising the local fitness of communities. The resulting modules can
overlap. The generation of communities can easily be repeated for many values
of resolution; thus allowing different views on the network at different
resolutions. We implemented the main idea of the LFK algorithm---to generate
natural communities of each node of a network---in a different way. We start
with a value of the resolution parameter that is high enough for each node to
be its own natural community. As soon as the resolution is reduced, each node
acquires other nodes as members of its community, i.e. natural communities
grow. For each community found at a certain resolution level we calculate the
next lower resolution where a node is added. After adding a node to a community
of a seed node we check whether it is also the natural community of a node that
we have already analysed. In this case, we can stop expanding the seed node's
community. We tested our algorithm on a small benchmark graph and on a network
of about 500 papers in information science (weighted with the Salton index of
bibliographic coupling). In our tests, this approach results in characteristic
ranges of resolution where a large resolution change does not lead to a growth
of the natural community. Such stable modules were also obtained by applying
the LFK algorithm but since we determine communities for all resolution values
in one run, our approach is faster than the LFK reference. And our algorithm
reveals the hierarchical structure of the graph more easily.