There have been suggestions that heat caused by cerebral metabolic activity
may constrain mammalian brain evolution, architecture, and function. This
article investigates physical limits on brain wiring and corresponding changes
in brain temperature that are imposed by thermodynamics of heat balance
determined mainly by Na$^{+}$/K$^{+}$-ATPase, cerebral blood flow, and heat
conduction. It is found that even moderate firing rates cause significant
intracellular Na$^{+}$ build-up, and the ATP consumption rate associated with
pumping out these ions grows nonlinearly with frequency. Surprisingly, the
power dissipated by the Na$^{+}$/K$^{+}$ pump depends biphasically on
frequency, which can lead to the biphasic dependence of brain temperature on
frequency as well. Both the total power of sodium pumps and brain temperature
diverge for very small fiber diameters, indicating that too thin fibers are not
beneficial for thermal balance. For very small brains blood flow is not a
sufficient cooling mechanism deep in the brain. The theoretical lower bound on
fiber diameter above which brain temperature is in the operational regime is
strongly frequency dependent but finite due to synaptic depression. For normal
neurophysiological conditions this bound is at least an order of magnitude
smaller than average values of empirical fiber diameters, suggesting that
neuroanatomy of the mammalian brains operates in the thermodynamically safe
regime. Analytical formulas presented can be used to estimate average firing
rates in mammals, and relate their changes to changes in brain temperature,
which can have important practical applications. In general, activity in larger
brains is found to be slower than in smaller brains.