An intrusion detection system framework using mobile agents is a layered
framework mechanism designed to support heterogeneous network environments to
identify intruders at its best. Traditional computer misuse detection
techniques can identify known attacks efficiently, but perform very poorly in
other cases. Anomaly detection has the potential to detect unknown attacks;
however, it is a very challenging task since its aim is to detect unknown
attacks without any priori knowledge about specific intrusions. This technology
is still at its early stage. The objective of this paper is that the system can
detect anomalous user activity. Existing research in this area focuses either
on user activity or on program operation but not on both simultaneously. In
this paper, an attempt to look at both concurrently is presented. Based on an
intrusion detection framework [1], a novel user anomaly detection system has
been implemented and conducted several intrusion detection experiments in a
simulated environment by analyzing user activity and program operation
activities. The proposed framework is a layered framework, which is designed to
satisfy the core purpose of IDS, and allows detecting the intrusion as quickly
as possible with available data using mobile agents. This framework was mainly
designed to provide security for the network using mobile agent mechanisms to
add mobility features to monitor the user processes from different
computational systems. The experimental results have shown that the system can
detect anomalous user activity effectively.