Peer-to-peer (P2P) computing is currently attracting enormous attention. In
P2P systems a very large number of autonomous computing nodes (the peers) pool
together their resources and rely on each other for data and services.
Peer-to-peer (P2P) Data-sharing systems now generate a significant portion of
Internet traffic. Examples include P2P systems for network storage, web
caching, searching and indexing of relevant documents and distributed
network-threat analysis. Requirements for widely distributed information
systems supporting virtual organizations have given rise to a new category of
P2P systems called schema-based. In such systems each peer exposes its own
schema and the main objective is the efficient search across the P2P network by
processing each incoming query without overly consuming bandwidth. The
usability of these systems depends on effective techniques to find and retrieve
data; however, efficient and effective routing of content-based queries is a
challenging problem in P2P networks. This work was attended as an attempt to
motivate the use of mining algorithms and hypergraphs context to develop two
different methods that improve significantly the efficiency of P2P
communications. The proposed query routing methods direct the query to a set of
relevant peers in such way as to avoid network traffic and bandwidth
consumption. We compare the performance of the two proposed methods with the
baseline one and our experimental results prove that our proposed methods
generate impressive levels of performance and scalability.