Plasmodium stage of Physarum polycephalum behaves as a distributed dynamical
pattern formation mechanism who's foraging and migration is influenced by local
stimuli from a wide range of attractants and repellents. Complex protoplasmic
tube network structures are formed as a result, which serve as efficient
`circuits' by which nutrients are distributed to all parts of the organism. We
investigate whether this `bottom-up' circuit routing method may be harnessed in
a controllable manner as a possible alternative to conventional template-based
circuit design. We interfaced the plasmodium of Physarum polycephalum to the
planar surface of the spatially represented computing device, (Mills' Extended
Analog Computer, or EAC), implemented as a sheet of analog computing material
whose behaviour is input and read by a regular 5x5 array of electrodes. We
presented a pattern of current distribution to the array and found that we were
able to select the directional migration of the plasmodium growth front by
exploiting plasmodium electro-taxis towards current sinks. We utilised this
directional guidance phenomenon to route the plasmodium across its habitat and
were able to guide the migration around obstacles represented by repellent
current sources. We replicated these findings in a collective particle model of
Physarum polycephalum which suggests further methods to orient, route, confine
and release the plasmodium using spatial patterns of current sources and sinks.
These findings demonstrate proof of concept in the low-level dynamical routing
for biologically implemented circuit design.