The classical approach for studying atmospheric variability is based on
defining a background state and studying the linear stability of the small
fluctuations around such a state. Weakly non-linear theories can be constructed
using higher order expansions terms. While these methods have undoubtedly great
value for elucidating the relevant physical processes, they are unable to
follow the dynamics of a turbulent atmosphere. We provide a first example of
extension of the classical stability analysis to a non-linearly evolving
quasi-geostrophic flow. The so-called covariant Lyapunov vectors (CLVs) provide
a covariant basis describing the directions of exponential expansion and decay
of perturbations to the non-linear trajectory of the flow. We use such a
formalism to re-examine the basic barotropic and baroclinic processes of the
atmosphere with a quasi-geostrophic beta-plane two-layer model in a periodic
channel driven by a forced meridional temperature gradient $\Delta T$. We
explore three settings of $\Delta T$, representative of relatively weak
turbulence, well-developed turbulence, and intermediate conditions. We
construct the Lorenz energy cycle for each CLV describing the energy exchanges
with the background state. A positive baroclinic conversion rate is a necessary
but not sufficient condition of instability. Barotropic instability is present
only for few very unstable CLVs for large values of $\Delta T$. Slowly growing
and decaying hydrodynamic Lyapunov modes closely mirror the properties of the
background flow. Following classical necessary conditions for
barotropic/baroclinic instability, we find a clear relationship between the
properties of the eddy fluxes of a CLV and its instability. CLVs with positive
baroclinic conversion seem to form a set of modes for constructing a reduced
model of the atmosphere dynamics.