Actin and myosin assemble into a thin layer of a highly dynamic network
underneath the membrane of eukaryotic cells. This network generates the forces
that drive cell and tissue-scale morphogenetic processes. The effective
material properties of this active network determine large-scale deformations
and other morphogenetic events. For example,the characteristic time of stress
relaxation (the Maxwell time)in the actomyosin sets the time scale of
large-scale deformation of the cortex. Similarly, the characteristic length of
stress propagation (the hydrodynamic length) sets the length scale of slow
deformations, and a large hydrodynamic length is a prerequisite for long-ranged
cortical flows. Here we introduce a method to determine physical parameters of
the actomyosin cortical layer (in vivo). For this we investigate the relaxation
dynamics of the cortex in response to laser ablation in the one-cell-stage {\it
C. elegans} embryo and in the gastrulating zebrafish embryo. These responses
can be interpreted using a coarse grained physical description of the cortex in
terms of a two dimensional thin film of an active viscoelastic gel. To
determine the Maxwell time, the hydrodynamic length and the ratio of active
stress and per-area friction, we evaluated the response to laser ablation in
two different ways: by quantifying flow and density fields as a function of
space and time, and by determining the time evolution of the shape of the
ablated region. Importantly, both methods provide best fit physical parameters
that are in close agreement with each other and that are similar to previous
estimates in the two systems. We provide an accurate and robust means for
measuring physical parameters of the actomyosin cortical layer.It can be useful
for investigations of actomyosin mechanics at the cellular-scale, but also for
providing insights in the active mechanics processes that govern tissue-scale
morphogenesis.