In this paper we distinguish between top-performance and lower performance
groups in the analysis of statistical properties of bibliometric
characteristics of two large sets of research groups. We find intriguing
differences between top-performance and lower performance groups, but also
between the two sets of research groups. Particularly these latter differences
are interesting, as they may indicate the influence of research management
strategies. Lower performance groups have a larger scale-dependent cumulative
advantage than top-performance groups. We also find that regardless of
performance, larger groups have less not-cited publications. We introduce a
simple model in which processes at the micro level lead to the observed
phenomena at the macro level. Top-performance groups are, on average, more
successful in the entire range of journal impact. We fit our findings into a
concept of hierarchically layered networks. In this concept, the network of
research groups constitutes a layer of one hierarchical step higher than the
basic network of publications connected by citations. The cumulative
size-advantage of citations received by a group looks like preferential
attachment in the basic network in which highly connected nodes (publications)
increase their connectivity faster than less connected nodes. But in our study
it is size that causes an advantage. In general, the larger a group (node in
the research group network), the more incoming links this group acquires in a
non-linear, cumulative way. Moreover, top-performance groups are about an order
of magnitude more efficient in creating linkages (i.e., receiving citations)
than the lower performance groups.