An analysis of voids using cosmological N-body simulations of cold dark
matter models is presented. It employs a robust statistics of voids, that was
recently applied to discriminate between data from the Las Campanas Redshift
Survey and different cosmological models. Here we extend the analysis to 3D and
show that typical void sizes D in the simulated galaxy samples obey a linear
scaling relation with the mean galaxy separation lambda: D=D_0+nu*lambda. It
has the same slope nu as in 2D, but with lower absolute void sizes. The scaling
relation is able to discriminate between different cosmologies. For the best
standard LCDM model, the slope of the scaling relation for voids in the dark
matter halos is too steep as compared to the LCRS, with too small void sizes
for well sampled data sets. The scaling relation of voids for dark matter halos
with increasing mass thresholds is even steeper than that for samples of
galaxy-mass halos where we sparse sample the data. This shows the stronger
clustering of more massive halos. Further, we find a correlation of the void
size to its central and environmental average density. While there is little
sign of an evolution in samples of small DM halos with v_{circ} ~ 90 km/s,
voids in halos with circular velocity over 200 km/s are larger at redshift z =
3 due to the smaller halo number density. The flow of dark matter from the
underdense to overdense regions in an early established network of large scale
structure is also imprinted in the evolution of the density profiles with a
relative density decrease in void centers by 0.18 per redshift unit between z=3
and z=0.