In the past several years, social media (e.g., Twitter and Facebook) has been
experiencing a spectacular rise and popularity, and becoming a ubiquitous
discourse for content sharing and social networking. With the widespread of
mobile devices and location-based services, social media typically allows users
to share whereabouts of daily activities (e.g., check-ins and taking photos),
and thus strengthens the roles of social media as a proxy to understand human
behaviors and complex social dynamics in geographic spaces. Unlike conventional
spatiotemporal data, this new modality of data is dynamic, massive, and
typically represented in stream of unstructured media (e.g., texts and photos),
which pose fundamental representation, modeling and computational challenges to
conventional spatiotemporal analysis and geographic information science. In
this paper, we describe a scalable computational framework to harness massive
location-based social media data for efficient and systematic spatiotemporal
data analysis. Within this framework, the concept of space-time trajectories
(or paths) is applied to represent activity profiles of social media users. A
hierarchical spatiotemporal data model, namely a spatiotemporal data cube
model, is developed based on collections of space-time trajectories to
represent the collective dynamics of social media users across aggregation
boundaries at multiple spatiotemporal scales. The framework is implemented
based upon a public data stream of Twitter feeds posted on the continent of
North America. To demonstrate the advantages and performance of this framework,
an interactive flow mapping interface (including both single-source and
multiple-source flow mapping) is developed to allow real-time, and interactive
visual exploration of movement dynamics in massive location-based social media
at multiple scales.