For a class of polynomial kinetic systems, this work examines connections
between system parameters, and uniqueness and stability of the resulting
equilibria. Such systems are typically employed to describe nonlinear dynamics
in chemical reaction networks, but over the last years they proved useful in
modeling a wide range of nonlinear dynamic systems with applications in
biology, process systems, economics or transportation problems. In particular,
a canonical representation of the set of all possible feasible equilibrium
solutions is developed. The characterization is made in terms of compartmental
matrices which by construction are strictly stable and define the so-called
family of solutions. Feasibility is imposed by a set of constraints, which are
linear in the log-transformed space of complexes, and relate to the kernel of
the stoichiometric subspace. One particularly interesting representation of
these constraints can be established in terms of a class of monotonous
functions which turn out to be critical to conclude uniqueness of equilibrium
points in a class of deficiency one networks. One main consequence of such
representation is the possibility of a simple constructive proof of the
deficiency one theorem. It also allows a precise characterization of the
parameter space region of complex balance solutions we refer to as the Horn
set. Future directions may involve detection or design of networks having
multiple equilibria, or the use of complex balance condition to provide
stabilization via feed-back control of open reaction systems.