The purpose of this paper is a theoretical study of a non-linear problem of
rheological fluid transport in an axisymmetric tube by cilium. However, an
attempt has been made to explain the role of cilia motion on the transport of
fluid through the ductus efferentes of the male reproductive tract. Ostwald-de
Waele power law viscous fluid has been considered to represent the rheological
fluid to analyze pumping by means of a sequence of beat of cilia from row to
row of cilia in a given row of cells and from one row of cells to the next
(metachronal wave movement) under conditions for which the corresponding
Reynolds number is small enough for inertial effects to be negligible and the
wavelength to diameter ratio is large enough for the pressure to be considered
uniform over the cross-section. Analyses and computations of the detailed fluid
motions reveal that the time-averaged flow rates are directly dependent on
epsilon, a non-dimensional measure involving the mean radius R of the tube and
the cilia length. Thus, flow rate significantly varies with the cilia length.
Moreover, the flow rate has been reported close to the estimated value 0.006
ml/h in human ductus efferentes when epsilon is near by 0.5. The estimated
value was suggested by Lardner and Shack [4] in human based on the experimental
observations on the flow rates in the ductus efferentes in the other animals,
e.g., rat, ram, and bull. In addition, the nature of the rheological fluid,
i.e., the value of the fluid index n strongly influences various flow-governed
characteristics.
  Keywords: Non-Newtonian Fluid; Cilia Movement; Metachronal Wave; Flow
Reversal; Velocity at Wave Crest and Trough