We propose a neural network model with transient chaos, or a transiently
chaotic neural network (TCNN) as an approximation method for combinatorial
optimization problem, by introducing transiently chaotic dynamics into neural
networks. Unlike conventional neural networks only with point attractors, the
proposed neural network has richer and more flexible dynamics, so that it can
be expected to have higher ability of searching for globally optimal or
near-optimal solutions. A significant property of this model is that the
chaotic neurodynamics is temporarily generated for searching and
self-organizing, and eventually vanishes with autonomous decreasing of a
bifurcation parameter corresponding to the "temperature" in usual annealing
process. Therefore, the neural network gradually approaches, through the
transient chaos, to dynamical structure similar to such conventional models as
the Hopfield neural network which converges to a stable equilibrium point.
Since the optimization process of the transiently chaotic neural network is
similar to simulated annealing, not in a stochastic way but in a
deterministically chaotic way, the new method is regarded as chaotic simulated
annealing (CSA). Fundamental characteristics of the transiently chaotic
neurodynamics are numerically investigated with examples of a single neuron
model and the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP). Moreover, a maintenance
scheduling problem for generators in a practical power system is also analysed
to verify practical efficiency of this new method.