The origin of allometric scaling patterns that are multiples of 1/4 has long
fascinated biologists. While not universal, scaling relationships with
exponents that are close to multiples of 1/4 are common and have been described
in all major clades. Foremost among these relationships is the 3/4 scaling of
metabolism with mass which underpins the 1/4 power dependence of biological
rates and times. Several models have been advanced to explain the underlying
mechanistic drivers of such patterns, but questions regarding a disconnect
between model structures and empirical data have limited their widespread
acceptance. Notable among these is a fractal branching model which predicts
power law scaling of both metabolism and physical dimensions. While a power law
is a useful first approximation to many datasets, non-linearity in some large
data compilations suggest the possibility of more complex or alternative
mechanisms. Here, we first show that quarter power scaling can be derived using
only the preservation of volume flow rate and velocity as model constraints.
Applying our model to the specific case of land plants, we show that
incorporating biomechanical principles and allowing different parts of plant
branching networks to be optimized to serve different functions predicts
non-linearity in allometric relationships, and helps explain why interspecific
scaling exponents covary along a fractal continuum. We also demonstrate that
while branching may be a stochastic process, due to the conservation of volume,
data may still be consistent with the expectations for a fractal network when
one examines subtrees within a tree. Data from numerous sources at the level of
plant shoots, stems, petioles, and leaves show strong agreement with our model
predictions. This novel theoretical framework provides an easily testable
alternative to current general models of plant metabolic allometry.