In two-way networks, nodes act as both sources and destinations of messages.
This allows for "adaptation" at or "interaction" between the nodes - a node's
channel inputs may be functions of its message(s) and previously received
signals. How to best adapt is key to two-way communication, rendering it
challenging. However, examples exist of point-to-point channels where
adaptation is not beneficial from a capacity perspective. We ask whether
analogous examples exist for multi-user two-way networks.
  We first consider deterministic two-way channel models: the binary modulo-2
addition channel and a generalization thereof, and the linear deterministic
channel. For these deterministic models we obtain the capacity region for the
two-way multiple access/broadcast channel, the two-way Z channel and the
two-way interference channel (IC). In all cases we permit all nodes to adapt
channel inputs to past outputs (except for portions of the linear deterministic
two-way IC where we only permit 2 of the 4 nodes to fully adapt). However, we
show that this adaptation is useless from a capacity region perspective and
capacity is achieved by strategies where the channel inputs at each use do not
adapt to previous inputs. Finally, we consider the Gaussian two-way IC, and
show that partial adaptation is useless when the interference is very strong.
In the strong and weak interference regimes, we show that the non-adaptive Han
and Kobayashi scheme utilized in parallel in both directions achieves to within
a constant gap for the symmetric rate of the fully (some regimes) or partially
(remaining regimes) adaptive models.
  The central technical contribution is the derivation of new, computable outer
bounds which allow for adaptation. Inner bounds follow from non-adaptive
achievability schemes of the corresponding one-way channel models.