This paper studies the problem of distributed computation over a network of
wireless sensors. While this problem applies to many emerging applications, to
keep our discussion concrete we will focus on sensor networks used for
structural health monitoring. Within this context, the heaviest computation is
to determine the singular value decomposition (SVD) to extract mode shapes
(eigenvectors) of a structure. Compared to collecting raw vibration data and
performing SVD at a central location, computing SVD within the network can
result in significantly lower energy consumption and delay. Using recent
results on decomposing SVD, a well-known centralized operation, into
components, we seek to determine a near-optimal communication structure that
enables the distribution of this computation and the reassembly of the final
results, with the objective of minimizing energy consumption subject to a
computational delay constraint. We show that this reduces to a generalized
clustering problem; a cluster forms a unit on which a component of the overall
computation is performed. We establish that this problem is NP-hard. By
relaxing the delay constraint, we derive a lower bound to this problem. We then
propose an integer linear program (ILP) to solve the constrained problem
exactly as well as an approximate algorithm with a proven approximation ratio.
We further present a distributed version of the approximate algorithm. We
present both simulation and experimentation results to demonstrate the
effectiveness of these algorithms.