The design of photo-active collagen systems is presented as a basis for
establishing biomimetic materials with varied network architecture and
programmable macroscopic properties. Following in-house isolation of type I
collagen, reaction with vinyl-bearing compounds of varied backbone rigidity,
i.e. 4-vinylbenzyl chloride (4VBC) and glycidyl methacrylate (GMA), was carried
out. TNBS colorimetric assay, 1H-NMR and ATR-FTIR confirmed covalent and
tunable functionalization of collagen lysines. Depending on the type and extent
of functionalization, controlled stability and thermal denaturation of triple
helices were observed via circular dichroism (CD), whereby the hydrogen-bonding
capability of introduced moieties was shown to play a major role. Full gel
formation was observed following photo-activation of functionalized collagen
solutions. The presence of a covalent network only slightly affected collagen
triple helix conformation (as observed by WAXS and ATR-FTIR), confirming the
structural organization of functionalized collagen precursors. Photo-activated
hydrogels demonstrated an increased denaturation temperature (DSC) with respect
to native collagen, suggesting that the formation of the covalent network
successfully stabilized collagen triple helices. Moreover, biocompatibility and
mechanical competence of obtained hydrogels were successfully demonstrated
under physiologically-relevant conditions. These results demonstrate that this
novel synthetic approach enabled the formation of biocompatible collagen
systems with defined network architecture and programmable macroscopic
properties, which can only partially be obtained with current synthetic
methods.