Widely adopted at home, business places, and hot spots, wireless ad-hoc
networks are expected to provide broadband services parallel to their wired
counterparts in near future. To address this need, MIMO techniques, which are
capable of offering several-fold increase in capacity, hold significant
promise. Most previous work on capacity analysis of ad-hoc networks is based on
an implicit assumption that each node has only one antenna. Core to the
analysis therein is the characterization of a geometric area, referred to as
the exclusion region, which quantizes the amount of spatial resource occupied
by a link. When multiple antennas are deployed at each node, however, multiple
links can transmit in the vicinity of each other simultaneously, as
interference can now be suppressed by spatial signal processing. As such, a
link no longer exclusively occupies a geometric area, making the concept of
"exclusion region" not applicable any more. In this paper, we investigate
link-layer throughput capacity of MIMO ad-hoc networks. In contrast to previous
work, the amount of spatial resource occupied by each link is characterized by
the actual interference it imposes on other links. To calculate the link-layer
capacity, we first derive the probability distribution of post-detection SINR
at a receiver. The result is then used to calculate the number of active links
and the corresponding data rates that can be sustained within an area. Our
analysis will serve as a guideline for the design of medium access protocols
for MIMO ad-hoc networks. To the best of knowledge, this paper is the first
attempt to characterize the capacity of MIMO ad-hoc networks by considering the
actual PHY-layer signal and interference model.