The structure of homogeneous turbulent shear flow is studied using data
generated by Direct Numerical Simulations (DNS) and a linear analysis for both
compressible and incompressible cases. At large values of the mean shear rate,
the Rapid Distortion Theory (RDT) limit is approached. Analytical solutions are
found for the inviscid compressible RDT equations at long times. The RDT
equations are also solved numerically for both inviscid and viscous cases. The
RDT solutions, confirmed by the DNS results, show that the even order
transverse derivative moments of the dilatational and solenoidal velocity
fields are anisotropic, with the dilatational motions more anisotropic than
their solenoidal counterparts. The results obtained for the incompressible case
are similar to those obtained for the solenoidal motions in the compressible
case. The DNS results also indicate an increase in the anisotropy of the even
order transverse derivative moments with the order of the moment, in agreement
with the RDT predictions. Although the anisotropy decreases with Reynolds
number, it is likely that for higher even order moments it will persist at
large values of the Reynolds number, in contrast with the postulate of local
isotropy. The RDT solutions also predict that the normalized odd order
transverse derivative moments of the solenoidal velocity for the compressible
case and of the velocity for the incompressible case should approach a constant
different than zero at large times. This prediction is supported by the DNS
data. For higher odd order normalized moments, the RDT analysis suggests that
the anisotropy may persist at large values of the Reynolds number, in agreement
with the existent experimental data.