The brain's activity is characterized by the interaction of a very large
number of neurons that are strongly affected by noise. However, signals often
arise at macroscopic scales integrating the effect of many neurons into a
reliable pattern of activity. In order to study such large neuronal assemblies,
one is often led to derive mean-field limits summarizing the effect of the
interaction of a large number of neurons into an effective signal. Classical
mean-field approaches consider the evolution of a deterministic variable, the
mean activity, thus neglecting the stochastic nature of neural behavior. In
this article, we build upon two recent approaches that include correlations and
higher order moments in mean-field equations, and study how these stochastic
effects influence the solutions of the mean-field equations, both in the limit
of an infinite number of neurons and for large yet finite networks. We
introduce a new model, the infinite model, which arises from both equations by
a rescaling of the variables and, which is invertible for finite-size networks,
and hence, provides equivalent equations to those previously derived models.
The study of this model allows us to understand qualitative behavior of such
large-scale networks. We show that, though the solutions of the deterministic
mean-field equation constitute uncorrelated solutions of the new mean-field
equations, the stability properties of limit cycles are modified by the
presence of correlations, and additional non-trivial behaviors including
periodic orbits appear when there were none in the mean field. The origin of
all these behaviors is then explored in finite-size networks where interesting
mesoscopic scale effects appear. This study leads us to show that the
infinite-size system appears as a singular limit of the network equations, and
for any finite network, the system will differ from the infinite system.