Stochasticity plays important roles in molecular networks when molecular
concentrations are in the range of $0.1 \mu$M to $10 n$M (about 100 to 10
copies in a cell). The chemical master equation provides a fundamental
framework for studying these networks, and the time-varying landscape
probability distribution over the full microstates provide a full
characterization of the network dynamics. A complete characterization of the
space of the microstates is a prerequisite for obtaining the full landscape
probability distribution of a network. However, there are neither closed-form
solutions nor algorithms fully describing all microstates for a given molecular
network.
  We have developed an algorithm that can exhaustively enumerate the
microstates of a molecular network of small copy numbers under the finite
buffer condition that the net gain in newly synthesized molecules is smaller
than a predefined limit. We also describe a simple method for computing the
exact mean or steady state landscape probability distribution over microstates.
We show how the full landscape probability for the gene networks of the
self-regulating gene and the toggle-switch in the steady state can be fully
characterized. We also give an example using the MAPK cascade network.
  Our algorithm works for networks of small copy numbers buffered with a finite
copy number of net molecules that can be synthesized, regardless of the
reaction stoichiometry, and is optimal in both storage and time complexity. The
buffer size is limited by the available memory or disk storage. Our algorithm
is applicable to a class of biological networks when the copy numbers of
molecules are small and the network is closed, or the network is open but the
net gain in newly synthesized molecules does not exceed a predefined buffer
capacity.