Multiscale simulation methods have been developed based on the local stress
sampling strategy and applied to three flow problems with different difficulty
levels: (a) general flow problems of simple fluids, (b) parallel
(one-dimensional) flow problems of polymeric liquids, and (c) general (two- or
three-dimensional) flow problems of polymeric liquids. In our multiscale
methods, the local stress of each fluid element is calculated directly by
performing microscopic or mesoscopic simulations according to the local flow
quantities instead of using any constitutive relations. For simple fluids (a),
such as the Lenard-Jones liquid, a multiscale method combining MD and CFD
simulations is developed based on the local equilibrium assumption without
memories of the flow history. (b), the multiscale method is extended to take
into account the memory effects that arise in hydrodynamic stress due to the
slow relaxation of polymer-chain conformations. The memory of polymer dynamics
on each fluid element is thus resolved by performing MD simulations in which
cells are fixed at the mesh nodes of the CFD simulations.For general (two- or
three-dimensional) flow problems of polymeric liquids (c), it is necessary to
trace the history of microscopic information such as polymer-chain
conformation, which carries the memories of past flow history, along the
streamline of each fluid element. A Lagrangian-based CFD is thus implemented to
correctly advect the polymer-chain conformation consistently with the flow. On
each fluid element, coarse-grained polymer simulations are carried out to
consider the dynamics of entangled polymer chains that show extremely slow
relaxation compared to microscopic time scales.