We introduce the concept of Random Sequential Renormalization (RSR) for
arbitrary networks. RSR is a graph renormalization procedure that locally
aggregates nodes to produce a coarse grained network. It is analogous to the
(quasi-)parallel renormalization schemes introduced by C. Song {\it et al.}
(Nature {\bf 433}, 392 (2005)) and studied more recently by F. Radicchi {\it et
al.} (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 148701 (2008)), but much simpler and easier
to implement. In this first paper we apply RSR to critical trees and derive
analytical results consistent with numerical simulations. Critical trees
exhibit three regimes in their evolution under RSR: (i) An initial regime
$N_0^{\nu}\lesssim N<N_0$, where $N$ is the number of nodes at some step in the
renormalization and $N_0$ is the initial size. RSR in this regime is described
by a mean field theory and fluctuations from one realization to another are
small. The exponent $\nu=1/2$ is derived using random walk arguments. The
degree distribution becomes broader under successive renormalization --
reaching a power law, $p_k\sim 1/k^{\gamma}$ with $\gamma=2$ and a variance
that diverges as $N_0^{1/2}$ at the end of this regime. Both of these results
are derived based on a scaling theory. (ii) An intermediate regime for
$N_0^{1/4}\lesssim N \lesssim N_0^{1/2}$, in which hubs develop, and
fluctuations between different realizations of the RSR are large. Crossover
functions exhibiting finite size scaling, in the critical region $N\sim
N_0^{1/2} \to \infty$, connect the behaviors in the first two regimes. (iii)
The last regime, for $1 \ll N\lesssim N_0^{1/4}$, is characterized by the
appearance of star configurations with a central hub surrounded by many leaves.
The distribution of sizes where stars first form is found numerically to be a
power law up to a cutoff that scales as $N_0^{\nu_{star}}$ with
$\nu_{star}\approx 1/4$.