Protoplanetary "transition" disks have large, mass-depleted central cavities,
yet also deliver gas onto their host stars at rates comparable to disks without
holes. The paradox of simultaneous transparency and accretion can be explained
if gas flows inward at much higher radial speeds inside the cavity than outside
the cavity, since surface density (and by extension optical depth) varies
inversely with inflow velocity at fixed accretion rate. Radial speeds within
the cavity might even have to approach free-fall values to explain the huge
surface density contrasts inferred for transition disks. We identify
observational diagnostics of fast radial inflow in channel maps made in
optically thick spectral lines. Signatures include (1) twisted isophotes in
maps made at low systemic velocities and (2) rotation of structures observed
between maps made in high-velocity line wings. As a test case, we apply our new
diagnostic tools to archival ALMA data on the transition disk HD 142527, and
uncover evidence for free-fall radial velocities inside its cavity. Although
the observed kinematics are also consistent with a disk warp, the radial inflow
scenario is preferred because it predicts low surface densities that appear
consistent with recent observations of optically thin CO isotopologues in this
disk. How material in the disk cavity sheds its angular momentum wholesale to
fall freely onto the star is an unsolved problem; gravitational torques exerted
by giant planets or brown dwarfs are briefly discussed as a candidate
mechanism.