In this article, we extend several algebraic graph analysis methods to
bipartite networks. In various areas of science, engineering and commerce, many
types of information can be represented as networks, and thus the discipline of
network analysis plays an important role in these domains. A powerful and
widespread class of network analysis methods is based on algebraic graph
theory, i.e., representing graphs as square adjacency matrices. However, many
networks are of a very specific form that clashes with that representation:
They are bipartite. That is, they consist of two node types, with each edge
connecting a node of one type with a node of the other type. Examples of
bipartite networks (also called \emph{two-mode networks}) are persons and the
social groups they belong to, musical artists and the musical genres they play,
and text documents and the words they contain. In fact, any type of feature
that can be represented by a categorical variable can be interpreted as a
bipartite network. Although bipartite networks are widespread, most literature
in the area of network analysis focuses on unipartite networks, i.e., those
networks with only a single type of node. The purpose of this article is to
extend a selection of important algebraic network analysis methods to bipartite
networks, showing that many methods from algebraic graph theory can be applied
to bipartite networks with only minor modifications. We show methods for
clustering, visualization and link prediction. Additionally, we introduce new
algebraic methods for measuring the bipartivity in near-bipartite graphs.