Modern computer threats are far more complicated than those seen in the past.
They are constantly evolving, altering their appearance, perpetually changing
disguise. Under such circumstances, detecting known threats, a fortiori
zero-day attacks, requires new tools, which are able to capture the essence of
their behavior, rather than some fixed signatures. In this work, we propose
novel universal anomaly detection algorithms, which are able to learn the
normal behavior of systems and alert for abnormalities, without any prior
knowledge on the system model, nor any knowledge on the characteristics of the
attack. The suggested method utilizes the Lempel-Ziv universal compression
algorithm in order to optimally give probability assignments for normal
behavior (during learning), then estimate the likelihood of new data (during
operation) and classify it accordingly. The suggested technique is generic, and
can be applied to different scenarios. Indeed, we apply it to key problems in
computer security. The first is detecting Botnets Command and Control (C&C)
channels. A Botnet is a logical network of compromised machines which are
remotely controlled by an attacker using a C&C infrastructure, in order to
perform malicious activities. We derive a detection algorithm based on timing
data, which can be collected without deep inspection, from open as well as
encrypted flows. We evaluate the algorithm on real-world network traces,
showing how a universal, low complexity C&C identification system can be built,
with high detection rates and low false-alarm probabilities. Further
applications include malicious tools detection via system calls monitoring and
data leakage identification.