Non-modal amplification of disturbances in streamwise-constant channel flows
of Oldroyd-B fluids is studied from an input-output point of view by analyzing
the responses of the velocity components to spatio-temporal body forces. These
inputs into the governing equations are assumed to be harmonic in the spanwise
direction and stochastic in the wall-normal direction and in time. An explicit
Reynolds number scaling of frequency responses from different forcing to
different velocity components is developed, showing the same $Re$-dependence as
in Newtonian fluids. It is found that some of the frequency response components
peak at non-zero temporal frequencies. This is in contrast to Newtonian fluids,
where peaks are always observed at zero frequency, suggesting that viscoelastic
effects introduce additional timescales and promote development of flow
patterns with smaller time constants than in Newtonian fluids. The temporal
frequencies, corresponding to the peaks in the components of frequency
response, decrease with an increase in viscosity ratio (ratio of solvent
viscosity to total viscosity) and show maxima for non-zero elasticity number.
Our analysis of the Reynolds-Orr equation demonstrates that the energy-exchange
term involving the streamwise/wall-normal polymer stress component $\tau_{xy}$
and the wall-normal gradient of the streamwise velocity $\partial_y u$ becomes
increasingly important relative to the Reynolds stress term as the elasticity
number increases, and is thus the main driving force for amplification in flows
with strong viscoelastic effects.