"The Spin Foams for People Without the 3d/4d Imagination" could be an
alternative title of our work. We derive spin foams from operator spin network
diagrams} we introduce. Our diagrams are the spin network analogy of the
Feynman diagrams. Their framework is compatible with the framework of Loop
Quantum Gravity. For every operator spin network diagram we construct a
corresponding operator spin foam. Admitting all the spin networks of LQG and
all possible diagrams leads to a clearly defined large class of operator spin
foams. In this way our framework provides a proposal for a class of 2-cell
complexes that should be used in the spin foam theories of LQG. Within this
class, our diagrams are just equivalent to the spin foams. The advantage,
however, in the diagram framework is, that it is self contained, all the
amplitudes can be calculated directly from the diagrams without explicit
visualization of the corresponding spin foams. The spin network diagram
operators and amplitudes are consistently defined on their own. Each diagram
encodes all the combinatorial information. We illustrate applications of our
diagrams: we introduce a diagram definition of Rovelli's surface amplitudes as
well as of the canonical transition amplitudes. Importantly, our operator spin
network diagrams are defined in a sufficiently general way to accommodate all
the versions of the EPRL or the FK model, as well as other possible models. The
diagrams are also compatible with the structure of the LQG Hamiltonian
operators, what is an additional advantage. Finally, a scheme for a complete
definition of a spin foam theory by declaring a set of interaction vertices
emerges from the examples presented at the end of the paper.