We present an analytical framework for modeling a priority-based load
balancing scheme in cellular networks based on a new algorithm called direct
retry with truncated offloading channel resource pool (DR$_{K}$). The model,
developed for a baseline case of two cell network, differs in many respects
from previous works on load balancing. Foremost, it incorporates the call
admission process, through random access. In specific, the proposed model
implements the Physical Random Access Channel used in 3GPP network standards.
Furthermore, the proposed model allows the differentiation of users based on
their priorities. The quantitative results illustrate that, for example,
cellular network operators can control the manner in which traffic is offloaded
between neighboring cells by simply adjusting the length of the random access
phase. Our analysis also allows for the quantitative determination of the
blocking probability individual users will experience given a specific length
of random access phase. Furthermore, we observe that the improvement in
blocking probability per shared channel for load balanced users using DR$_{K}$
is maximized at an intermediate number of shared channels, as opposed to the
maximum number of these shared resources. This occurs because a balance is
achieved between the number of users requesting connections and those that are
already admitted to the network. We also present an extension of our analytical
model to a multi-cell network (by means of an approximation) and an application
of the proposed load balancing scheme in the context of opportunistic spectrum
access.