Two-way relaying in wireless systems has initiated a large research effort
during the past few years. While one-way relay with a single data flow
introduces loss in spectral efficiency due to its half-duplex operation,
two-way relaying based on wireless network coding regains part of this loss by
simultaneously processing the two data flows. In a broader perspective, the
two-way traffic pattern is rather limited and it is of interest to investigate
other traffic patterns where such a simultaneous processing of information
flows can bring performance advantage. In this paper we consider a scenario
beyond the usual two-way relaying: a four-way relaying, where each of the two
Mobile Stations (MSs) has a two-way connection to the same Base Station (BS),
while each connection is through a dedicated Relay Station (RS). While both RSs
are in the range of the same BS, they are assumed to have antipodal positions
within the cell, such that they do not interfere with each other. We introduce
and analyze a two-phase transmission scheme to serve the four-way traffic
pattern defined in this scenario. Each phase consists of combined broadcast and
multiple access. We analyze the achievable rate region of the new schemes for
two different operational models for the RS, Decode-and-Forward (DF) and
Amplify-and-Forward (AF), respectively. We compare the performance with a
state-of-the-art reference scheme, time sharing is used between the two MSs,
while each MS is served through a two-way relaying scheme. The results indicate
that, when the RS operates in a DF mode, the achievable rate regions are
significantly enlarged. On the other hand, for AF relaying, the gains are
rather modest. The practical implication of the presented work is a novel
insight on how to improve the spatial reuse in wireless cellular networks by
coordinating the transmissions of the antipodal relays.