Managing network complexity, accommodating greater numbers of subscribers,
improving coverage to support data services (e.g. email, video, and music
downloads), keeping up to speed with fast-changing technology, and driving
maximum value from existing networks - all while reducing CapEX and OpEX and
ensuring Quality of Service (QoS) for the network and Quality of Experience
(QoE) for the user. These are just some of the pressing business issues faced
by mobileservice providers, summarized by the demand to "achieve more, for
less." The ultimate goal of optimization techniques at the network and
application layer is to ensure End-user perceived QoS. The next generation
networks (NGN), a composite environment of proven telecommunications and
Internet-oriented mechanisms have become generally recognized as the
telecommunications environment of the future. However, the nature of the NGN
environment presents several complex issues regarding quality assurance that
have not existed in the legacy environments (e.g., multi-network, multi-vendor,
and multi-operator IP-based telecommunications environment, distributed
intelligence, third-party provisioning, fixed-wireless and mobile access,
etc.). In this Research Paper, a service aware policy-based approach to NGN
quality assurance is presented, taking into account both perceptual quality of
experience and technologydependant quality of service issues. The respective
procedures, entities, mechanisms, and profiles are discussed. The purpose of
the presented approach is in research, development, and discussion of pursuing
the end-to-end controllability of the quality of the multimedia NGN-based
communications in an environment that is best effort in its nature and promotes
end user's access agnosticism, service agility, and global mobility.