The settling of inertial particles in 2D vertical flows is investigated in
the limit where the particle inertia, the free-fall terminal velocity, and the
flow unsteadiness can be treated as perturbations. The generic case of
recirculation cells bounded by a set of separatrix streamlines forming a
heteroclinic cycle of fluid points' dynamics is considered. The (weak)
unsteadiness of the flow generally induces a chaotic tangle near the
heteroclinic cycle, leading to the apparent diffusion of fluid elements through
the boundary. For inertial particles this complex motion can also exist in
spite of inertia and sedimentation, provided the Stokes number is below some
critical value $St_c$. It is shown that $St_c= Pe^{-1}/|Fr^{-1}\pm u_{0c}^2|$,
where $Pe$ is an effective Peclet number related to the diffusion of fluid
points through the boundary, $Fr$ is the Froude number based on the horizontal
distance between the end points of the separatrix streamline, and $u_0^2$ is
the non-dimensional curvature-weighted integral of the squared velocity of the
steady fluid flow along this separatrix. The $\pm$ sign is positive if gravity
and centrifugation act in the same direction, and negative otherwise. When $St
< St_c$, particles moving near the separatrix streamline can enter and exit the
cell in a complex manner. When $St > St_c$ a regular motion takes place.
Trapping can still exist in this case, since particles can be driven towards
the interior of the cell in a regular manner, under the effect of either
gravity or curvature, or both.