Ultra-dense network (UDN) has been considered as a promising candidate for
future 5G network to meet the explosive data demand. To realize UDN, a
reliable, Gigahertz bandwidth, and cost-effective backhaul connecting
ultra-dense small-cell base stations (BSs) and macro-cell BS is prerequisite.
Millimeter-wave (mmWave) can provide the potential Gbps traffic for wireless
backhaul. Moreover, mmWave can be easily integrated with massive MIMO for the
improved link reliability. In this article, we discuss the feasibility of
mmWave massive MIMO based wireless backhaul for 5G UDN, and the benefits and
challenges are also addressed. Especially, we propose a digitally-controlled
phase-shifter network (DPSN) based hybrid precoding/combining scheme for mmWave
massive MIMO, whereby the low-rank property of mmWave massive MIMO channel
matrix is leveraged to reduce the required cost and complexity of transceiver
with a negligible performance loss. One key feature of the proposed scheme is
that the macro-cell BS can simultaneously support multiple small-cell BSs with
multiple streams for each smallcell BS, which is essentially different from
conventional hybrid precoding/combining schemes typically limited to
single-user MIMO with multiple streams or multi-user MIMO with single stream
for each user. Based on the proposed scheme, we further explore the fundamental
issues of developing mmWave massive MIMO for wireless backhaul, and the
associated challenges, insight, and prospect to enable the mmWave massive MIMO
based wireless backhaul for 5G UDN are discussed.