We report a dynamical determination of the separate contributions of disk and
dark halo masses to the rotation curve of a spiral galaxy. We use
fluid-dynamical models of gas flow in the barred galaxy NGC 4123 to constrain
the dynamical properties of the galaxy: disk M/L, bar pattern speed, and the
central density and scale radius of the dark halo. We derive a realistic barred
potential directly from the light distribution. For each model we assume a
value of the stellar M/L and a bar pattern speed Omega_p and add a dark halo to
fit the rotation curve. We then compute the gas flow velocities with a 2-D gas
dynamical code, and compare the model flow patterns to a 2-D velocity field
derived from Fabry-Perot observations. The strong shocks and non-circular
motions in the observed gas flow require a high stellar M/L and a fast-rotating
bar. Models with I-band disk M/L of 2.0 -- 2.5 h_75, or 80 -- 100% of the
maximum disk value, are highly favored. The corotation radius of the bar must
be <= 1.5 times the bar semi-major axis. These results contradict some recent
claimed ``universal'' galaxy disk/halo relations, since NGC 4123 is of modest
size (rotation curve maximum 145 km/sec, and V_flat = 130 km/sec) yet is quite
disk-dominated. The dark halo of NGC 4123 is less concentrated than favored by
current models of dark halos based on cosmological simulations. Since some 30%
of bright disk galaxies are strongly barred and have dust lanes indicating
shock morphology similar to that of NGC 4123, it is likely that they also have
high stellar M/L and low density halos. We suggest that luminous matter
dominates inside the optical radius R_25 of high surface brightness disk
galaxies.