Diffusion of information, spread of rumors and infectious diseases are all
instances of stochastic processes that occur over the edges of an underlying
network. Many times networks over which contagions spread are unobserved, and
such networks are often dynamic and change over time. In this paper, we
investigate the problem of inferring dynamic networks based on information
diffusion data. We assume there is an unobserved dynamic network that changes
over time, while we observe the results of a dynamic process spreading over the
edges of the network. The task then is to infer the edges and the dynamics of
the underlying network.
  We develop an on-line algorithm that relies on stochastic convex optimization
to efficiently solve the dynamic network inference problem. We apply our
algorithm to information diffusion among 3.3 million mainstream media and blog
sites and experiment with more than 179 million different pieces of information
spreading over the network in a one year period. We study the evolution of
information pathways in the online media space and find interesting insights.
Information pathways for general recurrent topics are more stable across time
than for on-going news events. Clusters of news media sites and blogs often
emerge and vanish in matter of days for on-going news events. Major social
movements and events involving civil population, such as the Libyan's civil war
or Syria's uprise, lead to an increased amount of information pathways among
blogs as well as in the overall increase in the network centrality of blogs and
social media sites.