We describe and analyze a cellular nonlinear network based on magnetic
nanostructures for image processing. The network consists of magneto-electric
cells integrated onto a common ferromagnetic film - spin wave bus. The
magneto-electric cell is an artificial two-phase multiferroic structure
comprising piezoelectric and ferromagnetic materials. A bit of information is
assigned to the cell's magnetic polarization, which can be controlled by the
applied voltage. The information exchange among the cells is via the spin waves
propagating in the spin wave bus. Each cell changes its state as a combined
effect of two: the magneto-electric coupling and the interaction with the spin
waves. The distinct feature of the network with spin wave bus is the ability to
control the inter-cell communication by an external global parameter - magnetic
field. The latter makes possible to realize different image processing
functions on the same template without rewiring or reconfiguration. We present
the results of numerical simulations illustrating image filtering, erosion,
dilation, horizontal and vertical line detection, inversion and edge detection
accomplished on one template by the proper choice of the strength and direction
of the external magnetic field. We also present numerical assets on the major
network parameters such as cell density, power dissipation and functional
throughput, and compare them with the parameters projected for other
nano-architectures such as CMOL-CrossNet, Quantum Dot Cellular Automata, and
Quantum Dot Image Processor. Potentially, the utilization of spin waves
phenomena at the nanometer scale may provide a route to low-power consuming and
functional logic circuits for special task data processing.