Constraints placed upon the phenotypes of organisms result from their
interactions with the environment. Over evolutionary timescales, these
constraints feed back onto smaller molecular subnetworks comprising the
organism. The evolution of biological networks is studied by considering a
network of a few nodes embedded in a larger context. Taking into account this
fact that any network under study is actually embedded in a larger context, we
define network architecture, not on the basis of physical interactions alone,
but rather as a specification of the manner in which constraints are placed
upon the states of its nodes. We show that such network architectures
possessing cycles in their topology, in contrast to those that do not, may be
subjected to unsatisfiable constraints. This may be a significant factor
leading to selection biased against those network architectures where such
inconsistent constraints are more likely to arise. We proceed to quantify the
likelihood of inconsistency arising as a function of network architecture
finding that, in the absence of sampling bias over the space of possible
constraints and for a given network size, networks with a larger number of
cycles are more likely to have unsatisfiable constraints placed upon them. Our
results identify a constraint that, at least in isolation, would contribute to
a bias in the evolutionary process toward more hierarchical-modular versus
completely connected network architectures. Together, these results highlight
the context-dependence of the functionality of biological networks.