We examine the optical emission line properties of Brightest Cluster Galaxies
(BCGs) selected from two large, homogeneous datasets. The first is the X-ray
selected National Optical Astronomy Observatory Fundamental Plane Survey
(NFPS), and the second is the C4 catalogue of optically selected clusters built
from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release ~3 (SDSS DR3). Our goal is to
better understand the optical line emission in BCGs with respect to properties
of the galaxy and the host cluster. Throughout the analysis we compare the line
emission of the BCGs to that of a control sample made of the other bright
galaxies near the cluster centre. Overall, both the NFPS and SDSS show a modest
fraction of BCGs with emission lines (~15%). No trend in the fraction of
emitting BCGs as a function of galaxy mass or cluster velocity dispersion is
found. However we find that, for those BCGs found in cooling flow clusters,
71^{+9}_{-14}% have optical emission. Furthermore, if we consider only BCGs
within 50kpc of the X-ray centre of a cooling flow cluster, the emission-line
fraction rises further to 100^{+0}_{-15}%. Excluding the cooling flow clusters,
only ~10% of BCGs are line emitting, comparable to the control sample of
galaxies. We show that the physical origin of the emission line activity
varies: in some cases it has LINER-like line ratios, whereas in others it is a
composite of star-formation and LINER-like activity. We conclude that the
presence of emission lines in BCGs is directly related to the cooling of X-ray
gas at the cluster centre.