The normality dependence and the kinetics of flow behavior in the rice starch
dispersion under strong alkali conditions were studied. Non-Newtonian flow
(power-law) quantities n and \mu (\sigma=\mu(\dot\epsilon)^n; \sigma: shear
stress, \dot\epsilon: shear rate) of the samples stored (gelatinized) at
20^{\circ}C for 10min after the addition of NaOH solution with the normality
0.090 - 0.175N, were measured by a cone-plate type rotational viscometer. For
the flow analysis a care was taken for the ambiguity of the analysis range of
flow data. The samples added with 0.14 - 0.16N NaOH displayed an apparently
dilatant flow. As the normality of added NaOH increased, apparent viscosity
\eta_a was steeply enhanced in the vicinity of 0.14N and started to grow almost
exponentially. Next, the storage time dependence of flow properties was
investigated for samples gelatinized for 6<t[min]<230 after the addition of
0.146N NaOH solution. A Newtonian analysis of the flow (\sigma - \dot\epsilon)
data indicated that viscosity \eta increased exponentially in the early stage
(6<t<35) and did linearly in the middle. It was argued that the observed time
dependence of viscosity could be described by a first-order reaction hypothesis
combined with the fluidity (\eta^{-1}) mixing rule with respect to
ungelatinized and gelatinized fractions of starch. The application of this
theoretical treatment to the present data suggested that the gelatinization
process was composed of plural phases with different values of a rate constant.
For the observed kinetic characteristic of alkali gelatinization, the
discussions were presented on the basis of amylose complex formation.