Nonmodal transient growth studies and estimation of optimal perturbations
have been made for the compressible plane Couette flow with three-dimensional
disturbances. The maximum amplification of perturbation energy over time,
$G_{\max}$, is found to increase with increasing Reynolds number ${\it Re}$,
but decreases with increasing Mach number $M$. More specifically, the optimal
energy amplification $G_{\rm opt}$ (the supremum of $G_{\max}$ over both the
streamwise and spanwise wavenumbers) is maximum in the incompressible limit and
decreases monotonically as $M$ increases. The corresponding optimal streamwise
wavenumber, $\alpha_{\rm opt}$, is non-zero at M=0, increases with increasing
$M$, reaching a maximum for some value of $M$ and then decreases, eventually
becoming zero at high Mach numbers. While the pure streamwise vortices are the
optimal patterns at high Mach numbers, the modulated streamwise vortices are
the optimal patterns for low-to-moderate values of the Mach number. Unlike in
incompressible shear flows, the streamwise-independent modes in the present
flow do not follow the scaling law $G(t/{\it Re}) \sim {\it Re}^2$, the reasons
for which are shown to be tied to the dominance of some terms in the linear
stability operator. Based on a detailed nonmodal energy analysis, we show that
the transient energy growth occurs due to the transfer of energy from the mean
flow to perturbations via an inviscid {\it algebraic} instability. The decrease
of transient growth with increasing Mach number is also shown to be tied to the
decrease in the energy transferred from the mean flow ($\dot{\mathcal E}_1$) in
the same limit.