We consider a network of devices, such as generators, fixed loads, deferrable
loads, and storage devices, each with its own dynamic constraints and
objective, connected by lossy capacitated lines. The problem is to minimize the
total network objective subject to the device and line constraints, over a
given time horizon. This is a large optimization problem, with variables for
consumption or generation in each time period for each device. In this paper we
develop a decentralized method for solving this problem. The method is
iterative: At each step, each device exchanges simple messages with its
neighbors in the network and then solves its own optimization problem,
minimizing its own objective function, augmented by a term determined by the
messages it has received. We show that this message passing method converges to
a solution when the device objective and constraints are convex. The method is
completely decentralized, and needs no global coordination other than
synchronizing iterations; the problems to be solved by each device can
typically be solved extremely efficiently and in parallel. The method is fast
enough that even a serial implementation can solve substantial problems in
reasonable time frames. We report results for several numerical experiments,
demonstrating the method's speed and scaling, including the solution of a
problem instance with over 30 million variables in 52 minutes for a serial
implementation; with decentralized computing, the solve time would be less than
one second.