We investigate the viscous two temperature accretion discs around rotating
black holes. We describe the global solution of accretion flows with a
sub-Keplerian angular momentum profile, by solving the underlying conservation
equations including explicit cooling processes selfconsistently.
Bremsstrahlung, synchrotron and inverse Comptonization of soft photons are
considered as possible cooling mechanisms, for sub-Eddington, Eddington and
super-Eddington mass accretion rates around Schwarzschild and Kerr black holes
with a Kerr parameter 0.998. It is found that the flow, during its infall from
the Keplerian to sub-Keplerian transition region to the black hole event
horizon, passes through various phases of advection -- general advective
paradigm to radiatively inefficient phase and vice versa. Hence the flow
governs much lower electron temperature ~10^8-10^{9.5} K, in the range of
accretion rate in Eddington units 0.01 <~ \mdot <~ 100, compared to the hot
protons of temperature ~ 10^{10.2} - 10^{11.8}K. Therefore, the solution may
potentially explain the hard X-rays and \gamma-rays emitted from AGNs and X-ray
binaries. We then show that a weakly viscous flow is expected to be cooling
dominated, particularly at the inner region of the disc, compared to its highly
viscous counterpart which is radiatively inefficient. With all the solutions in
hand, we finally reproduce the observed luminosities of the under-fed AGNs and
quasars (e.g. Sgr A^*) to ultra-luminous X-ray sources (e.g. SS433), at
different combinations of input parameters such as mass accretion rate, ratio
of specific heats. The set of solutions also predicts appropriately the
luminosity observed in the highly luminous AGNs and ultra-luminous quasars
(e.g. PKS 0743-67).