We consider an adaptive signal control problem on a signalized network whose
traffic flow dynamic is described by the Lighthill-Whitham-Richards (LWR) model
(Lighthill and Whitham, 1955; Richards, 1956). Such problem explicitly
considers traffic-derived emission as side constraints. We seek to tackle this
problem using a mixed integer mathematical programming approach. Such a problem
class, which we call LWR-Emission (LWR-E), has been analyzed before to certain
extent. Since mixed integer programs are practically efficient to compute in
many cases (Bertsimas et al., 2011), the mere fact of having integer variables
is not the most significant challenge to computing solutions of MIPs; rather,
it is the presence of the nonlinear and nonconvex emission-related constraints
that render the program computationally expensive. To address this issue, we
proposed an efficient and practical way of solving the LWR-E problem, by
formulating it as a mixed integer linear program (MILP). This methodology
relies on the existence of a strong correlation between the aggregate vehicle
emissions rate and certain macroscopic traffic quantities, such as the number
of vehicles on a link. This correlation is fitted by a function and deviations
from this function are treated as parameter uncertainty. We then apply robust
optimization techniques to reformulate the emissions-related constraints into
convex and tractable forms. To further reduce the computational cost, we employ
the link transmission model to represent traffic dynamics. The final proposed
MILP explicitly captures vehicle spillback, avoids traffic holding and features
time-varying signal cycle and splits, as well as the aforementioned emissions
constraints.