The most promising approach to enhance network capacity for the next
generation of wireless cellular networks (5G) is densification, which benefits
from the extensive spatial reuse of the spectrum and the reduced distance
between transmitters and receivers. In this paper, we examine the performance
of different schedulers in ultra dense small cell deployments. Due to the
stronger line of sight (LOS) at low inter-site distances (ISDs), we discuss
that the Rician fading channel model is more suitable to study network
performance than the Rayleigh one, and model the Rician K factor as a function
of distance between the user equipment (UE) and its serving base station (BS).
We also construct a cross-correlation shadowing model that takes into account
the ISD, and finally investigate potential multi-user diversity gains in ultra
dense small cell deployments by comparing the performances of proportional fair
(PF) and round robin (RR) schedulers. Our study shows that as network becomes
denser, the LOS component starts to dominate the path loss model which
significantly increases the interference. Simulation results also show that
multi-user diversity is considerably reduced at low ISDs, and thus the PF
scheduling gain over the RR one is small, around 10% in terms of cell
throughput. As a result, the RR scheduling may be preferred for dense small
cell deployments due to its simplicity. Despite both the interference
aggravation as well as the multi-user diversity loss, network densification is
still worth it from a capacity view point.