The velocity fluctuations present in macroscopically homogeneous suspensions
of neutrally buoyant, non-Brownian spheres undergoing simple shear flow, and
their dependence on the microstructure developed by the suspensions, are
investigated in the limit of vanishingly small Reynolds numbers using Stokesian
dynamics simulations. We show that, in the dilute limit, the standard deviation
of the velocity fluctuations is proportional to the volume fraction, in both
the transverse and the flow directions, and that a theoretical prediction,
which considers only for the hydrodynamic interactions between isolated pairs
of spheres, is in good agreement with the numerical results at low
concentrations. We also simulate the velocity fluctuations that would result
from a random hard-sphere distribution of spheres in simple shear flow, and
thereby investigate the effects of the microstructure on the velocity
fluctuations. Analogous results are discussed for the fluctuations in the
angular velocity of the suspended spheres. In addition, we present the
probability density functions for all the linear and angular velocity
components, and for three different concentrations, showing a transition from a
Gaussian to an Exponential and finally to a Stretched Exponential functional
form as the volume fraction is decreased. We also show that, although the pair
distribution function recovers its fore-aft symmetry in dilute suspensions, it
remains anisotropic and that this anisotropy can be accurately described by
assuming the complete absence of any permanent doublets of spheres. We finally
present a simple correction to the analysis of laser-Doppler velocimetry
measurements.