Mobile wireless network research focuses on scenarios at the extremes of the
network connectivity continuum where the probability of all nodes being
connected is either close to unity, assuming connected paths between all nodes
(mobile ad hoc networks), or it is close to zero, assuming no multi-hop paths
exist at all (delay-tolerant networks). In this paper, we argue that a sizable
fraction of networks lies between these extremes and is characterized by the
existence of partial paths, i.e. multi-hop path segments that allow forwarding
data closer to the destination even when no end-to-end path is available. A
fundamental issue in such networks is dealing with disruptions of end-to-end
paths. Under a stochastic model, we compare the performance of the established
end-to-end retransmission (ignoring partial paths), against a forwarding
mechanism that leverages partial paths to forward data closer to the
destination even during disruption periods. Perhaps surprisingly, the
alternative mechanism is not necessarily superior. However, under a stochastic
monotonicity condition between current v.s. future path length, which we
demonstrate to hold in typical network models, we manage to prove superiority
of the alternative mechanism in stochastic dominance terms. We believe that
this study could serve as a foundation to design more efficient data transfer
protocols for partially-connected networks, which could potentially help
reducing the gap between applications that can be supported over disconnected
networks and those requiring full connectivity.