We propose a method to determine the cosmic mass density Omega from
redshift-space distortions induced by large-scale flows in the presence of
nonlinear clustering. Nonlinear structures in redshift space such as fingers of
God can contaminate distortions from linear flows on scales as large as several
times the small-scale pairwise velocity dispersion sigma_v. Following Peacock &
Dodds (1994), we work in the Fourier domain and propose a model to describe the
anisotropy in the redshift-space power spectrum; tests with high-resolution
numerical data demonstrate that the model is robust for both mass and biased
galaxy halos on translinear scales and above. On the basis of this model, we
propose an estimator of the linear growth parameter beta = Omega^0.6/b, where b
measures bias, derived from sampling functions which are tuned to eliminate
distortions from nonlinear clustering. The measure is tested on the numerical
data and found to recover the true value of beta to within ~10%. An analysis of
the IRAS 1.2Jy galaxies yields beta = 0.8+0.4/-0.3 at a scale of 1,000 km/s
which is close to optimal given the shot noise and the finite survey volume.
This measurement is consistent with dynamical estimates of beta derived from
both real-space and redshift-space information. The importance of the method
presented here is that nonlinear clustering effects are removed to enable
linear correlation anisotropy measurements on scales approaching the
translinear regime. We discuss implications for analyses of forthcoming optical
redshift surveys in which the dispersion is more than a factor of two greater
than in the IRAS data.