This work introduces a generic framework, called the bag-of-paths (BoP), that
can be used for link and network data analysis. The primary application of this
framework, investigated in this paper, is the definition of distance measures
between nodes enjoying some nice properties. More precisely, let us assume a
weighted directed graph G where a cost is associated to each arc. Within this
context, consider a bag containing all the possible paths between pairs of
nodes in G. Then, following, a probability distribution on this countable set
of paths through the graph is defined by minimizing the total expected cost
between all pairs of nodes while fixing the total relative entropy spread in
the graph. This results in a Boltzmann distribution on the set of paths such
that long (high-cost) paths have a low probability of being sampled from the
bag, while short (low-cost) paths have a high probability of being sampled.
Within this probabilistic framework, the BoP probabilities, P(s=i,e=j), of
drawing a path starting from node i (s=i) and ending in node j (e=j) can easily
be computed in closed form by a simple matrix inversion. Various applications
of this framework are currently investigated, e.g., the definition of distance
measures between the nodes of G, betweenness indexes, network criticality
measures, edit distances, etc. As a first step, this paper describes the
general BoP framework and introduces two families of distance measures between
nodes. In addition to being a distance measure, one of these two quantities has
the interesting property of interpolating between the shortest path and the
commute cost distances. Experimental results on semi-supervised tasks show that
these distance families are competitive with other state-of-the-art approaches.