We uncover the H2 flows in the Corona Australis molecular cloud and in
particular identify the flows from the Coronet cluster. Near-infrared H2 v=1--0
S(1), 2.12micron-line, narrow-band imaging survey of the R CrA cloud core was
carried out. We identify the best candidate-driving source for each outflow by
comparing the flow properties, available proper motions, and the
known/estimated properties of the driving sources. We also adopted the
thumbrule of outflow power as proportional to source luminosity and inversely
proportional to the source age to reach a consensus.
  Results: Continuum-subtracted, narrow-band images reveal several new
Molecular Hydrogen emission-line Objects (MHOs). Together with previously known
MHOs and Herbig-Haro objects we catalog at least 14 individual flow components
of which 11 appear to be driven by the RCrA aggregate members. The flows
originating in the Coronet cluster have lengths of ~0.1-0.2 pc. Eight out of
nine submillimeter cores mapped in the Coronet cluster region display embedded
stars driving an outflow component. Roughly 80% of the youngest objects in the
Coronet are associated with outflows. The MHO flows to the west of the Coronet
display lobes moving to the west and vice-versa, resulting in nondetections of
the counter lobe in our deep imaging. We speculate that these counterflows may
be experiencing a stunting effect in penetrating the dense central core.
  Conclusions:Although this work has reduced the ambiguities for many flows in
the Coronet region, one of the brightest H2 feature (MHO2014) and a few fainter
features in the region remain unassociated with a clear driving source. The
flows from Coronet, therefore, continue to be interesting targets for future
studies.