The background of this work is the problem of reducing the aerodynamic
turbulent friction drag, which is an important source of energy waste in
innumerable technological fields. We develop a theoretical framework aimed at
predicting the behaviour of existing drag reduction techniques when used at the
large values of Re which are typical of applications. We focus on one recently
proposed and very promising technique, which consists in creating at the wall
streamwise-travelling waves of spanwise velocity. A perturbation analysis of
the Navier-Stokes equations that govern the fluid motion is carried out, for
the simplest wall-bounded flow geometry, i.e. the plane channel flow. The
streamwise base flow is perturbed by the spanwise time-varying base flow
induced by the travelling waves. An asymptotic expansion is then carried out
with respect to the velocity amplitude of the travelling wave. The analysis,
although based on several assumptions, leads to predictions of drag reduction
that agree well with the measurements available in literature and mostly
computed through DNS of the full Navier-Stokes equations. New DNS data are
produced on purpose in this work to validate our method further. The method is
then applied to predict the drag-reducing performance of the
streamwise-travelling waves at increasing Re, where comparison data are not
available. The current belief, based on a Re-range of about one decade only
above the transitional value, that drag reduction obtained at low Re is deemed
to decrease as Re is increased is fully confirmed by our results. From a
quantitative standpoint, however, our outlook based on several decades of
increase in Re is much less pessimistic than other existing estimates, and
motivates further, more accurate studies on the present subject.