A stalled spherical accretion shock, such as that arising in core-collapse
supernovae, is unstable to non-spherical perturbations. In three dimensions,
this Standing Accretion Shock Instability (SASI) can develop spiral modes that
spin-up the protoneutron star. Here we study these non-axisymmetric modes by
combining linear stability analysis and three-dimensional, time-dependent
hydrodynamic simulations with Zeus-MP, focusing on characterizing their spatial
structure and angular momentum content. We do not impose any rotation on the
background accretion flow, and use simplified microphysics with no neutrino
heating or nuclear dissociation. Spiral modes are examined in isolation by
choosing flow parameters such that only the fundamental mode is unstable for a
given polar index, leading to good agreement with linear theory. We find that
any superposition of sloshing modes with non-zero relative phases survives in
the nonlinear regime and leads to angular momentum redistribution. It follows
that the range of perturbations required to obtain spin-up is broader than that
needed to obtain the limiting case of a phase shift of pi/2. The bulk of the
angular momentum redistribution occurs during a phase of exponential growth,
and arises from internal torques that are second order in the perturbation
amplitude. This redistribution gives rise to at least two counter rotating
regions, with the maximum angular momentum of a given sign approaching a
significant fraction of the mass accretion rate times the shock radius squared
(Mdot * r_shock^2 ~ 1E+47 g/cm^2/s, spin period ~60 ms). Nonlinear mode
coupling at saturation causes the angular momentum to fluctuate in all
directions with much smaller amplitudes.