We study distributed agreement in synchronous directed dynamic networks,
where an omniscient message adversary controls the availability of
communication links. We prove that consensus is impossible under a message
adversary that guarantees weak connectivity only, and introduce vertex-stable
root components (VSRCs) as a means for circumventing this impossibility: A
VSRC(k, d) message adversary guarantees that, eventually, there is an interval
of $d$ consecutive rounds where every communication graph contains at most $k$
strongly (dynamic) connected components consisting of the same processes, which
have at most outgoing links to the remaining processes. We present a consensus
algorithm that works correctly under a VSRC(1, 4H + 2) message adversary, where
$H$ is the dynamic causal network diameter. On the other hand, we show that
consensus is impossible against a VSRC(1, H - 1) or a VSRC(2, $\infty$) message
adversary, revealing that there is not much hope to deal with stronger message
adversaries.
  However, we show that gracefully degrading consensus, which degrades to
general $k$-set agreement in case of unfavourable network conditions, is
feasible against stronger message adversaries: We provide a $k$-uniform $k$-set
agreement algorithm, where the number of system-wide decision values $k$ is not
encoded in the algorithm, but rather determined by the actual power of the
message adversary in a run: Our algorithm guarantees at most $k$ decision
values under a VSRC(n, d) + MAJINF(k) message adversary, which combines VSRC(n,
d) (for some small $d$, ensuring termination) with some information flow
guarantee MAJINF(k) between certain VSRCs (ensuring $k$-agreement). Our results
provide a significant step towards the exact solvability/impossibility border
of general $k$-set agreement in directed dynamic networks.