Partitioning a graph into groups of vertices such that those within each
group are more densely connected than vertices assigned to different groups,
known as graph clustering, is often used to gain insight into the organisation
of large scale networks and for visualisation purposes. Whereas a large number
of dedicated techniques have been recently proposed for static graphs, the
design of on-line graph clustering methods tailored for evolving networks is a
challenging problem, and much less documented in the literature. Motivated by
the broad variety of applications concerned, ranging from the study of
biological networks to the analysis of networks of scientific references
through the exploration of communications networks such as the World Wide Web,
it is the main purpose of this paper to introduce a novel, computationally
efficient, approach to graph clustering in the evolutionary context. Namely,
the method promoted in this article can be viewed as an incremental eigenvalue
solution for the spectral clustering method described by Ng. et al. (2001). The
incremental eigenvalue solution is a general technique for finding the
approximate eigenvectors of a symmetric matrix given a change. As well as
outlining the approach in detail, we present a theoretical bound on the quality
of the approximate eigenvectors using perturbation theory. We then derive a
novel spectral clustering algorithm called Incremental Approximate Spectral
Clustering (IASC). The IASC algorithm is simple to implement and its efficacy
is demonstrated on both synthetic and real datasets modelling the evolution of
a HIV epidemic, a citation network and the purchase history graph of an
e-commerce website.