Given a social network, which of its nodes are more central? This question
has been asked many times in sociology, psychology and computer science, and a
whole plethora of centrality measures (a.k.a. centrality indices, or rankings)
were proposed to account for the importance of the nodes of a network. In this
paper, we try to provide a mathematically sound survey of the most important
classic centrality measures known from the literature and propose an axiomatic
approach to establish whether they are actually doing what they have been
designed for. Our axioms suggest some simple, basic properties that a
centrality measure should exhibit.
  Surprisingly, only a new simple measure based on distances, harmonic
centrality, turns out to satisfy all axioms; essentially, harmonic centrality
is a correction to Bavelas's classic closeness centrality designed to take
unreachable nodes into account in a natural way.
  As a sanity check, we examine in turn each measure under the lens of
information retrieval, leveraging state-of-the-art knowledge in the discipline
to measure the effectiveness of the various indices in locating web pages that
are relevant to a query. While there are some examples of this comparisons in
the literature, here for the first time we take into consideration centrality
measures based on distances, such as closeness, in an information-retrieval
setting. The results match closely the data we gathered using our axiomatic
approach.
  Our results suggest that centrality measures based on distances, which have
been neglected in information retrieval in favour of spectral centrality
measures in the last years, are actually of very high quality; moreover,
harmonic centrality pops up as an excellent general-purpose centrality index
for arbitrary directed graphs.