Theoreticians have studied distributed algorithms in the radio network model
for close to three decades. A significant fraction of this work focuses on
lower bounds for basic communication problems such as wake-up (symmetry
breaking among an unknown set of nodes) and broadcast (message dissemination
through an unknown network topology). In this paper, we introduce a new
technique for proving this type of bound, based on reduction from a
probabilistic hitting game, that simplifies and strengthens much of this
existing work. In more detail, in this single paper we prove new expected time
and high probability lower bounds for wake-up and global broadcast in single
and multichannel versions of the radio network model both with and without
collision detection. In doing so, we are able to reproduce results that
previously spanned a half-dozen papers published over a period of twenty-five
years. In addition to simplifying these existing results, our technique, in
many places, also improves the state of the art: of the eight bounds we prove,
four strictly strengthen the best known previous result (in terms of time
complexity and/or generality of the algorithm class for which it holds), and
three provide the first known non-trivial bound for the case in question. The
fact that the same technique can easily generate this diverse collection of
lower bounds indicates a surprising unity underlying communication tasks in the
radio network model---revealing that deep down, below the specifics of the
problem definition and model assumptions, communication in this setting reduces
to finding efficient strategies for a simple game.