Mobile systems have become increasingly popular for providing ubiquitous
Internet access; however, recent studies demonstrate that software running on
these systems extensively tracks and leaks users' personally identifiable
information (PII). We argue that these privacy leaks persist in large part
because mobile users have little visibility into PII leaked through the network
traffic generated by their devices, and have poor control over how, when and
where that traffic is sent and handled by third parties. In this paper, we
describe ReCon, a cross-platform system that reveals PII leaks and gives users
control over them without requiring any special privileges or custom OSes.
Specifically, our key observation is that PII leaks must occur over the
network, so we implement our system in the network using a software middlebox
built atop the Meddle platform. While this simplifies access to users' network
flows, the key challenges for detecting PII from the network perspective are 1)
how to efficiently and accurately detect users' PII without knowing a priori
what their PII is and 2) whether to block, obfuscate, or ignore the PII leak.
To address this, we use a machine learning approach to detect traffic that
contains PII, display these behaviors via a visualization tool and let the user
decide how the system should act on transmitted PII. We discuss the design and
implementation of the system and evaluate its methodology with measurements
from controlled experiments and flows from 16 users (19 devices) as part of an
IRB-approved user study.