This paper is motivated to examine the security vulnerabilities and threats
imposed by the inherent open nature of wireless communications and to devise
efficient defense mechanisms for improving the wireless network security. We
first summarize the security requirements of wireless networks, including their
authenticity, confidentiality, integrity and availability issues. Next, a
comprehensive overview of security attacks encountered in wireless networks is
presented in view of the network protocol architecture, where the potential
security threats are discussed at each protocol layer. We also provide a survey
of the existing security protocols and algorithms that are adopted in the
existing wireless network standards, such as the Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, WiMAX, and
the long-term evolution (LTE) systems. Then, we discuss the state-of-the-art in
physical-layer security, which is an emerging technique of securing the open
communications environment against eavesdropping attacks at the physical layer.
Several physical-layer security techniques are reviewed and compared, including
information-theoretic security, artificial noise aided security,
security-oriented beamforming, diversity assisted security, and physical-layer
key generation approaches. Additionally, since a jammer emitting radio signals
can readily interfere with the legitimate wireless users, we introduce the
family of various jamming attacks and their counter-measures, including the
constant jammer, intermittent jammer, reactive jammer, adaptive jammer and
intelligent jammer. Finally, some technical challenges which remain unresolved
at the time of writing are summarized and the future trends in wireless
security are discussed.