Metastasis is one of the most enigmatic aspects of cancer pathogenesis and is
a major cause of cancer-associated mortality. Secondary bone cancer (SBC) is a
complex disease caused by metastasis of tumor cells from their primary site and
is characterized by intricate interplay of molecular interactions.
Identification of targets for multifactorial diseases such as SBC, the most
frequent complication of breast and prostate cancers, is a challenge. Towards
achieving our aim of identification of targets specific to SBC, we constructed
a 'Cancer Genes Network', a representative protein interactome of cancer genes.
Using graph theoretical methods, we obtained a set of key genes that are
relevant for generic mechanisms of cancers and have a role in biological
essentiality. We also compiled a curated dataset of 391 SBC genes from
published literature which serves as a basis of ontological correlates of
secondary bone cancer. Building on these results, we implement a strategy based
on generic cancer genes, SBC genes and gene ontology enrichment method, to
obtain a set of targets that are specific to bone metastasis. Through this
study, we present an approach for probing one of the major complications in
cancers, namely, metastasis. The results on genes that play generic roles in
cancer phenotype, obtained by network analysis of 'Cancer Genes Network', have
broader implications in understanding the role of molecular regulators in
mechanisms of cancers. Specifically, our study provides a set of potential
targets that are of ontological and regulatory relevance to secondary bone
cancer.