The proliferation of online social networks in the last decade has not
stopped short of pets, and many different online platforms now exist catering
to owners of various pets such as cats and dogs. These online pet social
networks provide a unique opportunity to study an online social network in
which a single user manages multiple user profiles, i.e. one for each pet they
own. These types of multi-profile networks allow us to investigate two
questions: (1) What is the relationship between the pet-level and human-level
network, and (2) what is the relationship between friendship links and family
ties? Concretely, we study the online social pet networks Catster, Dogster and
Hamsterster, the first two of which are the two largest online pet networks in
existence. We show how the networks on the two levels interact, and perform
experiments to find out whether knowledge about friendships on a profile-level
alone can be used to predict which users are behind which profile. In order to
do so, we introduce the concept of multi-profile social network, extend a
previously defined spectral test of diagonality to multi-profile networks,
define two new homophily measures for multi-profile social networks, perform a
two-level social network analysis, and present an algorithm for predicting
whether two profiles were created by the same user. As a result, we are able to
predict with very high precision whether two profiles were created by a same
user. Our work is thus relevant for the analysis of other online communities in
which users may use multiple profiles.