In the last decades, the study of models for large real-world networks has
been a very popular and active area of research. A reasonable model should not
only replicate all the structural properties that are observed in real world
networks (for example, heavy tailed degree distributions, high clustering and
small diameter), but it should also be amenable to mathematical analysis. There
are plenty of models that succeed in the first task but are hard to analyze
rigorously. On the other hand, a multitude of proposed models, like classical
random graphs, can be studied mathematically, but fail in creating certain
aspects that are observed in real-world networks.
  Recently, Papadopoulos, Krioukov, Boguna and Vahdat [INFOCOM'10] introduced a
random geometric graph model that is based on hyperbolic geometry. The contributors
argued empirically and by some preliminary mathematical analysis that the
resulting graphs have many of the desired properties. Moreover, by computing
explicitly a maximum likelihood fit of the Internet graph, they demonstrated
impressively that this model is adequate for reproducing the structure of real
graphs with high accuracy.
  In this work we initiate the rigorous study of random hyperbolic graphs. We
compute exact asymptotic expressions for the expected number of vertices of
degree k for all k up to the maximum degree and provide small probabilities for
large deviations. We also prove a constant lower bound for the clustering
coefficient. In particular, our findings confirm rigorously that the degree
sequence follows a power-law distribution with controllable exponent and that
the clustering is nonvanishing.