We take a unified view of network coding and decentralized control. Precisely
speaking, we consider both as linear time-invariant systems by appropriately
restricting channels and coding schemes of network coding to be linear
time-invariant, and the plant and controllers of decentralized control to be
linear time-invariant as well. First, we apply linear system theory to network
coding. This gives a novel way of converting an arbitrary relay network to an
equivalent acyclic single-hop relay network, which we call Network
Linearization. Based on network linearization, we prove that the fundamental
design limit, mincut, is achievable by a linear time-invariant network-coding
scheme regardless of the network topology.
  Then, we use the network-coding to view decentralized linear systems. We
argue that linear time-invariant controllers in a decentralized linear system
"communicate" via linear network coding to stabilize the plant. To justify this
argument, we give an algorithm to "externalize" the implicit communication
between the controllers that we believe must be occurring to stabilize the
plant. Based on this, we show that the stabilizability condition for
decentralized linear systems comes from an underlying communication limit,
which can be described by the algebraic mincut-maxflow theorem. With this
re-interpretation in hand, we also consider stabilizability over LTI networks
to emphasize the connection with network coding. In particular, in broadcast
and unicast problems, unintended messages at the receivers will be modeled as
secrecy constraints.