Currently, TCP is the most popular and widely used network transmission
protocol. In actual fact, about 90% of connections on the internet use TCP to
communicate. Through several upgrades and improvements, TCP became well
optimized for the very reliable wired networks. As a result, TCP considers all
packet timeouts in wired networks as due to network congestion and not to bit
errors. However, with networking becoming more heterogeneous, providing wired
as well as wireless topologies, TCP suffers from performance degradation over
error-prone wireless links as it has no mechanism to differentiate error losses
from congestion losses. It therefore considers all packet losses as due to
congestion and consequently reduces the burst of packet, diminishing at the
same time the network throughput. This paper proposes a new TCP congestion
control scheme appropriate for wireless as well as wired networks and is
capable of distinguishing congestion losses from error losses. The proposed
scheme is based on using the reserved field of the TCP header to indicate
whether the established connection is over a wired or a wireless link.
Additionally, the proposed scheme leverages the SNR ratio to detect the
reliability of the link and decide whether to reduce packet burst or retransmit
a timed-out packet. Experiments conducted, revealed that the proposed scheme
proved to behave correctly in situations where timeouts were due to error and
not to congestion. Future work can improve upon the proposed scheme so much so
that it can leverage CRC and HEC errors so as to better determine the cause of
transmission timeouts in wireless networks.