Firing patterns in the central nervous system often exhibit strong temporal
irregularity and heterogeneity in their time averaged response properties.
Previous studies suggested that these properties are outcome of an intrinsic
chaotic dynamics. Indeed, simplified rate-based large neuronal networks with
random synaptic connections are known to exhibit sharp transition from fixed
point to chaotic dynamics when the synaptic gain is increased. However, the
existence of a similar transition in neuronal circuit models with more
realistic architectures and firing dynamics has not been established.
  In this work we investigate rate based dynamics of neuronal circuits composed
of several subpopulations and random connectivity. Nonzero connections are
either positive-for excitatory neurons, or negative for inhibitory ones, while
single neuron output is strictly positive; in line with known constraints in
many biological systems. Using Dynamic Mean Field Theory, we find the phase
diagram depicting the regimes of stable fixed point, unstable dynamic and
chaotic rate fluctuations. We characterize the properties of systems near the
chaotic transition and show that dilute excitatory-inhibitory architectures
exhibit the same onset to chaos as a network with Gaussian connectivity.
Interestingly, the critical properties near transition depend on the shape of
the single- neuron input-output transfer function near firing threshold.
Finally, we investigate network models with spiking dynamics. When synaptic
time constants are slow relative to the mean inverse firing rates, the network
undergoes a sharp transition from fast spiking fluctuations and static firing
rates to a state with slow chaotic rate fluctuations. When the synaptic time
constants are finite, the transition becomes smooth and obeys scaling
properties, similar to crossover phenomena in statistical mechanics