We present results of an investigation of the physical changes taking place
in the emission regions of the LMXB X1624-490 during strong flaring in RXTE
observations. Based on the detailed light curve, we propose that the flaring
consists of a superposition of X-ray bursts. It is shown that major changes
take place in the blackbody emission component, the temperature kT_BB
increasing to ~2.2 keV in flaring. Remarkably, the blackbody area decreases by
a factor of ~5 in flaring. During flare evolution, the blackbody luminosity
remains approximately constant, constituting a previously unknown Eddington
limiting effect which we propose is due to radiation pressure of the blackbody
as kT_BB increases affecting the inner disk or accretion flow resulting in a
decreased emitting area on the star. We argue that the large decrease in area
cannot be explained in terms of modification of the blackbody spectrum by
electron scattering in the atmosphere of the neutron star. The height of the
emitting region on the non-flaring neutron star is shown to agree with the
height of the inner radiatively-supported disk as found for sources in the ASCA
survey of LMXB of Church & Balucinska-Church (2001). The decrease in height
during flaring is discussed in terms of possible models, including radial
accretion flow onto the stellar surface and the theory of accretion flow
spreading on the neutron star surface of Inogamov & Sunyaev (1999). We
demonstrate that the intensity of the broad iron line at 6.4 keV is strongly
correlated with the luminosity of the blackbody emission from the neutron star,
and discuss the probable origin of this line in the ADC. Finally, possible
reasons for non-detection of a reflection component in this source, and LMXB in
general, are discussed.