In a paper \cite{P} in 1973, R. Penrose made a physical argument that the
total mass of a spacetime which contains black holes with event horizons of
total area $A$ should be at least $\sqrt{A/16\pi}$. An important special case
of this physical statement translates into a very beautiful mathematical
inequality in Riemannian geometry known as the Riemannian Penrose inequality.
One particularly geometric aspect of this problem is the fact that apparent
horizons of black holes in this setting correspond to minimal surfaces in
Riemannian 3-manifolds. The Riemannian Penrose inequality was first proved by
G. Huisken and T. Ilmanen in 1997 for a single black hole \cite{HI} and then by
the contributor in 1999 for any number of black holes \cite{Bray}. The two
approaches use two different geometric flow techniques. The most general
version of the Penrose inequality is still open. In this talk we will sketch
the contributor's proof by flowing Riemannian manifolds inside the class of
asymptotically flat 3-manifolds (asymptotic to $\real^3$ at infinity) which
have nonnegative scalar curvature and contain minimal spheres. This new flow of
metrics has very special properties and simulates an initial physical situation
in which all of the matter falls into the black holes which merge into a
single, spherically symmetric black hole given by the Schwarzschild metric.
Since the Schwarzschild metric gives equality in the Penrose inequality and the
flow decreases the total mass while preserving the area of the horizons of the
black holes, the Penrose inequality follows. We will also discuss how these
techniques can be generalized in higher dimensions.