We perform a theoretical and numerical study of anti-parallel 2D magnetic
reconnection with asymmetries in the density and reconnecting magnetic field
strength in addition to a bulk flow shear across the reconnection site in the
plane of the reconnecting fields, which commonly occurs at planetary
magnetospheres. We predict the speed at which an isolated X-line is convected
by the flow, the reconnection rate, and the critical flow speed at which
reconnection no longer takes place for arbitrary reconnecting magnetic field
strengths, densities, and upstream flow speeds, and confirm the results with
two-fluid numerical simulations. The predictions and simulation results counter
the prevailing model of reconnection at Earth's dayside magnetopause which says
reconnection occurs with a stationary X-line for sub-Alfvenic magnetosheath
flow, reconnection occurs but the X-line convects for magnetosheath flows
between the Alfven speed and double the Alfven speed, and reconnection does not
occur for magnetosheath flows greater than double the Alfven speed. We find
that X-line motion is governed by momentum conservation from the upstream
flows, which are weighted differently in asymmetric systems, so the X-line
convects for generic conditions including sub-Alfvenic upstream speeds. For the
reconnection rate, while the cutoff condition for symmetric reconnection is
that the difference in flows on the two sides of the reconnection site is twice
the Alfven speed, we find asymmetries cause the cutoff speed for asymmetric
reconnection to be higher than twice the asymmetric form of the Alfven speed.
The results compare favorably with an observation of reconnection at Earth's
polar cusps during a period of northward interplanetary magnetic field, where
reconnection occurs despite the magnetosheath flow speed being more than twice
the magnetosheath Alfven speed, the previously proposed suppression condition.