Despite the growing necessity to make Internet greener, it is worth pointing
out that energy-aware strategies to minimize network energy consumption must
not undermine the normal network operation. In particular, two very important
issues that may limit the application of green networking techniques concern,
respectively, network survivability, i.e. the network capability to react to
device failures, and robustness to traffic variations. We propose novel
modelling techniques to minimize the daily energy consumption of IP networks,
while explicitly guaranteeing, in addition to typical QoS requirements, both
network survivability and robustness to traffic variations. The impact of such
limitations on final network consumption is exhaustively investigated. Daily
traffic variations are modelled by dividing a single day into multiple time
intervals (multi-period problem), and network consumption is reduced by putting
to sleep idle line cards and chassis. To preserve network resiliency we
consider two different protection schemes, i.e. dedicated and shared
protection, according to which a backup path is assigned to each demand and a
certain amount of spare capacity has to be available on each link. Robustness
to traffic variations is provided by means of a specific modelling framework
that allows to tune the conservatism degree of the solutions and to take into
account load variations of different magnitude. Furthermore, we impose some
inter-period constraints necessary to guarantee network stability and preserve
the device lifetime. Both exact and heuristic methods are proposed.
Experimentations carried out with realistic networks operated with flow-based
routing protocols (i.e. MPLS) show that significant savings, up to 30%, can be
achieved also when both survivability and robustness are fully guaranteed.