The standard \LambdaCDM cosmological model implies that all celestial bodies
are embedded in a perfectly uniform dark energy background, represented by
Einstein's cosmological constant, and experience its repulsive antigravity
action. Can dark energy have strong dynamical effects on small cosmic scales as
well as globally? Continuing our efforts to clarify this question, we focus now
on the Virgo Cluster and the flow of expansion around it. We interpret the
Hubble diagram, from a new database of velocities and distances of galaxies in
the cluster and its environment, using a nonlinear analytical model which
incorporates the antigravity force in terms of Newtonian mechanics. The key
parameter is the zero-gravity radius, the distance at which gravity and
antigravity are in balance. Our conclusions are: 1. The interplay between the
gravity of the cluster and the antigravity of the dark energy background
determines the kinematical structure of the system and controls its evolution.
2. The gravity dominates the quasi-stationary bound cluster, while the
antigravity controls the Virgocentric flow, bringing order and regularity to
the flow, which reaches linearity and the global Hubble rate at distances \ga
15 Mpc. 3. The cluster and the flow form a system similar to the Local Group
and its outflow. In the velocity-distance diagram, the cluster-flow structure
reproduces the group-flow structure with a scaling factor of about 10; the
zero-gravity radius for the cluster system is also 10 times larger. The phase
and dynamical similarity of the systems on the scales of 1-30 Mpc suggests that
a two-component pattern may be universal for groups and clusters: a
quasi-stationary bound central component and an expanding outflow around it,
due to the nonlinear gravity-antigravity interplay with the dark energy
dominating in the flow component.