We obtain the equations of motion for cosmic strings in extensions of the 3+1
FRW model with extra dimensions. From these we derive a generalisation of the
Velocity-dependent One-Scale (VOS) model for cosmic string network evolution
which we apply, first, to a higher-dimensional isotropic $D+1$ FRW model and,
second, to a 3+1 FRW model with static flat extra dimensions. In the former
case the string network does not achieve a scaling regime because of the
diminishing rate of string intersections ($D>3$), but this can be avoided in
the latter case by considering compact, small extra dimensions, for which there
is a reduced but still appreciable string intercommuting probability. We note
that the velocity components lying in the three expanding dimensions are
Hubble-damped, whereas those in the static extra dimensions are only very
weakly damped. This leads to the pathological possibility, in principle, that
string motion in the three infinite dimensions can come to a halt preventing
the strings from intersecting, with the result that scaling is not achieved and
the strings irreversibly dominate the early universe. We note criteria by which
this can be avoided, notably if the spatial structure of the network becomes
essentially three-dimensional, as is expected for string networks produced in
brane inflation. Applying our model to a brane inflation setting, we find
scaling solutions in which the effective 3D string motion does not necessarily
stop, but it is slowed down because of the excitations trapped in the extra
dimensions. These effects are likely to influence cosmic string network
evolution for a long period after formation and we discuss their more general
implications.