The phenomenon of oral tolerance refers to a local and systemic state of
tolerance, induced in the gut associated lymphoid tissues, after its exposure
to innocuous antigens, such as food proteins. While recent findings shed light
in the cellular and molecular basis of oral tolerance, the network of
interactions between the components mediating oral tolerance has not been
investigated yet. Our work brings a complex systems theory approach, aiming to
identify the contribution of each element in an oral tolerance network. We also
propose a model that allows dynamical plus topological quantifying which must
encompass functional responses as the local host involved on the oral
tolerance. To keep track of reality of our model, we test knockout (KO) of
immunological components (i. e. silencing a vertex) and see how it diverges
when the system is topologically health. The results from these simulated KO's
are then compared to real molecular knock-outs. To infer from these processing
we apply a new implementation of a random walk algorithm for directed graphs,
which ultimately generate statistical quantities provided by the dynamical
behaviour of the simulated KO's. It was observed that the a specifics KO caused
the greatest impact on network standard flux. In a brief analysis, the results
obtained correspond to biological data. Our model addresses both topological
proprieties and dynamical relations. The construction of a qualitative dynamic
model for oral tolerance could reflect empirical observations, through the
standard flux results and relative error based on individual knockout.