We consider non-cooperative unsplittable congestion games where players share
resources, and each player's strategy is pure and consists of a subset of the
resources on which it applies a fixed weight. Such games represent unsplittable
routing flow games and also job allocation games. The congestion of a resource
is the sum of the weights of the players that use it and the player's cost
function is the sum of the utilities of the resources on its strategy. The
social cost is the total weighted sum of the player's costs. The quality of
Nash equilibria is determined by the price of anarchy ($PoA$) which expresses
how much worse is the social outcome in the worst equilibrium versus the
optimal coordinated solution. In the literature the predominant work has only
been on games with polynomial utility costs, where it has been proven that the
price of anarchy is bounded by the degree of the polynomial. However, no
results exist on general bounds for non-polynomial utility functions.
  Here, we consider general versions of these games in which the utility of
each resource is an arbitrary non-decreasing function of the congestion. In
particular, we consider a large family of superpolynomial utility functions
which are asymptotically larger than any polynomial. We demonstrate that for
every such function there exist games for which the price of anarchy is
unbounded and increasing with the number of players (even if they have
infinitesimal weights) while network resources remain fixed. We give tight
lower and upper bounds which show this dependence on the number of players.
Furthermore we provide an exact characterization of the $PoA$ of all congestion
games whose utility costs are bounded above by a polynomial function.
Heretofore such results existed only for games with polynomial cost functions.