This paper introduces a state-of-the-art video representation and applies it
to efficient action recognition and detection. We first propose to improve the
popular dense trajectory features by explicit camera motion estimation. More
specifically, we extract feature point matches between frames using SURF
descriptors and dense optical flow. The matches are used to estimate a
homography with RANSAC. To improve the robustness of homography estimation, a
human detector is employed to remove outlier matches from the human body as
human motion is not constrained by the camera. Trajectories consistent with the
homography are considered as due to camera motion, and thus removed. We also
use the homography to cancel out camera motion from the optical flow. This
results in significant improvement on motion-based HOF and MBH descriptors. We
further explore the recent Fisher vector as an alternative feature encoding
approach to the standard bag-of-words histogram, and consider different ways to
include spatial layout information in these encodings. We present a large and
varied set of evaluations, considering (i) classification of short basic
actions on six datasets, (ii) localization of such actions in feature-length
movies, and (iii) large-scale recognition of complex events. We find that our
improved trajectory features significantly outperform previous dense
trajectories, and that Fisher vectors are superior to bag-of-words encodings
for video recognition tasks. In all three tasks, we show substantial
improvements over the state-of-the-art results.