Context. Global MHD simulations show Kelvin-Helmholtz (KH) instabilities at
the contact surface of two merging neutron stars. That region has been
identified as the site of efficient amplification of magnetic fields. However,
these global simulations, due to numerical limitations, were unable to
determine the saturation level of the field strength, and thus the possible
back-reaction of the magnetic field onto the flow. Aims. We investigate the
amplification of initially weak fields in KH unstable shear flows, and the
back-reaction of the field onto the flow. Methods. We use a high-resolution
ideal MHD code to perform 2D and 3D local simulations of shear flows. Results.
In 2D, the magnetic field is amplified in less than 0.01ms until it reaches
locally equipartition with the kinetic energy. Subsequently, it saturates due
to resistive instabilities that disrupt the KH vortex and decelerate the shear
flow on a secular time scale. We determine scaling laws of the field
amplification with the initial field strength and the grid resolution. In 3D,
this hydromagnetic mechanism may be dominated by purely hydrodynamic
instabilities limiting the amplification. We find maximum magnetic fields of
10^16 G locally, and r.m.s. maxima within the box of 10^15 G. However, such
strong fields exist only for a short period. In the saturated state, the
magnetic field is mainly oriented parallel to the shear flow for strong initial
fields, while weaker initial fields tend to lead to a more balanced
distribution of the field energy. In all models the flow shows small-scale
features. The magnetic field is at most in equipartition with the decaying
shear flow. (abridged)