We explore some consequences of the ``alpha model,'' also called the
``Lagrangian-averaged'' model, for two-dimensional incompressible
magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) turbulence. This model is an extension of the
smoothing procedure in fluid dynamics which filters velocity fields locally
while leaving their associated vorticities unsmoothed, and has proved useful
for high Reynolds number turbulence computations. We consider several known
effects (selective decay, dynamic alignment, inverse cascades, and the
probability distribution functions of fluctuating turbulent quantities) in
magnetofluid turbulence and compare the results of numerical solutions of the
primitive MHD equations with their alpha-model counterparts' performance for
the same flows, in regimes where available resolution is adequate to explore
both. The hope is to justify the use of the alpha model in regimes that lie
outside currently available resolution, as will be the case in particular in
three-dimensional geometry or for magnetic Prandtl numbers differing
significantly from unity. We focus our investigation, using direct numerical
simulations with a standard and fully parallelized pseudo-spectral method and
periodic boundary conditions in two space dimensions, on the role that such a
modeling of the small scales using the Lagrangian-averaged framework plays in
the large-scale dynamics of MHD turbulence. Several flows are examined, and for
all of them one can conclude that the statistical properties of the large-scale
spectra are recovered, whereas small-scale detailed phase information (such as
e.g. the location of structures) is lost.