Networks on Chip is a recent solution paradigm adopted to increase the
performance of Multicore designs. The key idea is to interconnect various
computation modules (IP cores) in a network fashion and transport packets
simultaneously across them, thereby gaining performance. In addition to
improving performance by having multiple packets in flight, NoCs also present a
host of other advantages including scalability, power efficiency, and component
reuse through modular design. This work focuses on design and development of
high performance communication architectures for FPGAs using NoCs Once
completely developed, the above methodology could be used to augment the
current FPGA design flow for implementing multicore SoC applications. We design
and implement an NoC framework for FPGAs, MultiClock OnChip Network for
Reconfigurable Systems (MoCReS). We propose a novel microarchitecture for a
hybrid two layer router that supports both packetswitched communications,
across its local and directional ports, as well as, time multiplexed
circuitswitched communications among the multiple IP cores directly connected
to it. Results from place and route VHDL models of the advanced router
architecture show an average improvement of 20.4 percent in NoC bandwidth
(maximum of 24 percent compared to a traditional NoC). We parameterize the
hybrid router model over the number of ports, channel width and bRAM depth and
develop a library of network components (MoClib Library). For your paper to be
published in the conference proceedings, you must use this document as both an
instruction set and as a template into which you can type your own text. If
your paper does not conform to the required format, you will be asked to fix
it.