We report experimental results for fluctuations of injected power in confined
von K\'arm\'an swirling flows with constant external torque applied to the
stirrers. Two experiments were performed at nearly equal Reynolds numbers in
geometrically similar experimental setups, using air in one of them and water
in the other. We found that the probability density function of power
fluctuations is strongly asymmetric in air, while in water it is closer to a
Gaussian, showing that the effect that a big change on the fluid density has on
the flow-stirrer interaction is not reflected merely by a change in the
amplitude of stirrers' response. In the case of water, with a density roughly
830 times greater than air density, the forcing exerted by the flow on the
stirrers is stronger, so that they follow more closely the locally averaged
rotation of the flow. When the fluid is air, the forcing is much weaker,
resulting not only in a smaller stirrer response to the torque exerted by the
flow, but also in power fluctuations having a PDF which is strongly asymmetric
and a spectrum with a wide region that scales as $f^{-2}$. Thus, the asymmetry
of the probability density function of torque or angular speed fluctuations
seems to be related to the inability of the stirrers to respond to flow
stresses. This can occur, for example, when the forcing exerted by the flow is
weak ---because of small fluid density--- or when the stirrers' moment of
inertia is large. In addition, a correlation analysis reveals that the energy
transfer dynamics not only is faster in water than in air, but in each case
displays features that strongly differ qualitatively as well as quantitatively.