We consider the problem of designing a network of minimum cost while
satisfying a prescribed survivability criterion. The survivability criterion
requires that a feasible flow must still exists (i.e. all demands can be
satisfied without violating arc capacities) even after the disruption of a
subset of the network's arcs. Specifically, we consider the case in which a
disruption (random or malicious) can destroy a subset of the arcs, with the
cost of the disruption not to exceed a disruption budget. This problem takes
the form of a tri-level, two-player game, in which the network operator designs
(or augments) the network, then the attacker launches a disruption that
destroys a subset of arcs, and then the network operator attempts to find a
feasible flow over the residual network. We first show how this can be modeled
as a two-stage stochastic program from the network operator's perspective, with
each of the exponential number of potential attacks considered as a disruption
scenario. We then reformulate this problem, via a Benders decomposition, to
consider the recourse decisions implicitly, greatly reducing the number of
variables but at the expense of an exponential increase in the number of
constraints. We next develop a cut-generation based algorithm. Rather than
\emph{explicitly} considering each disruption scenario to identify these
Benders cuts, however, we develop a bi-level program and corresponding
separation algorithm that enables us to \emph{implicitly} evaluate the
exponential set of disruption scenarios. Our computational results demonstrate
the efficacy of this approach.