We present the first 3D MHD study in spherical geometry of the non-linear
dynamical evolution of magnetic flux tubes in a turbulent rotating convection
zone. We study numerically the rise of magnetic toroidal flux ropes from the
base of a modelled convection zone up to the top of our computational domain
where bipolar patches are formed. We compare the dynamical behaviour of flux
tubes in a fully convective shell possessing self-consistently generated mean
flows such as meridional circulation and differential rotation, with reference
calculations done in a quiet isentropic zone. We find that two parameters
influence the tubes during their rise through the convection zone: the initial
field strength and amount of twist, thus confirming previous findings in
Cartesian geometry. Further, when the tube is sufficiently strong with respect
to the equipartition field, it rises almost radially independently of the
initial latitude (either low or high). By contrast, weaker field cases indicate
that downflows and upflows control the rising velocity of particular regions of
the rope and could in principle favour the emergence of flux through Omega-loop
structures. For these latter cases, we focus on the orientation of bipolar
patches and find that sufficiently arched structures are able to create bipolar
regions with a predominantly East-West orientation. Meridional flow seems to
determine the trajectory of the magnetic rope when the field strength has been
significantly reduced near the top of the domain. Finally differential rotation
makes it more difficult for tubes introduced at low latitudes to reach the top
of the domain.