The role of turbulence in current generation and self-excitation of magnetic
fields has been studied in the geometry of a mechanically driven, spherical
dynamo experiment, using a three dimensional numerical computation. A simple
impeller model drives a flow which can generate a growing magnetic field,
depending upon the magnetic Reynolds number, Rm, and the fluid Reynolds number.
When the flow is laminar, the dynamo transition is governed by a simple
threshold in Rm, above which a growing magnetic eigenmode is observed. The
eigenmode is primarily a dipole field tranverse to axis of symmetry of the
flow. In saturation the Lorentz force slows the flow such that the magnetic
eigenmode becomes marginally stable. For turbulent flow, the dynamo eigenmode
is suppressed. The mechanism of suppression is due to a combination of a time
varying large-scale field and the presence of fluctuation driven currents which
effectively enhance the magnetic diffusivity. For higher Rm a dynamo reappears,
however the structure of the magnetic field is often different from the laminar
dynamo; it is dominated by a dipolar magnetic field which is aligned with the
axis of symmetry of the mean-flow, apparently generated by fluctuation-driven
currents. The fluctuation-driven currents have been studied by applying a weak
magnetic field to laminar and turbulent flows. The magnetic fields generated by
the fluctuations are significant: a dipole moment aligned with the symmetry
axis of the mean-flow is generated similar to those observed in the experiment,
and both toroidal and poloidal flux expulsion are observed.