We characterize the radial and angular variance of the Hubble flow in the
COMPOSITE sample of 4534 galaxies, on scales in which much of the flow is in
the nonlinear regime. With no cosmological assumptions other than the existence
of a suitably averaged linear Hubble law, we find with decisive Bayesian
evidence (ln B >> 5) that the Hubble constant averaged in independent spherical
radial shells is closer to its asymptotic value when referred to the rest frame
of the Local Group, rather than the standard rest frame of the Cosmic Microwave
Background. An exception occurs for radial shells in the range 40/h-60/h Mpc.
Angular averages reveal a dipole structure in the Hubble flow, whose amplitude
changes markedly over the range 32/h-62/h Mpc. Whereas the LG frame dipole is
initially constant and then decreases significantly, the CMB frame dipole
initially decreases but then increases. The map of angular Hubble flow
variation in the LG rest frame is found to coincide with that of the residual
CMB temperature dipole, with correlation coefficient -0.92. These results are
difficult to reconcile with the standard kinematic interpretation of the motion
of the Local Group in response to the clustering dipole, but are consistent
with a foreground non-kinematic anisotropy in the distance-redshift relation of
0.5% on scales up to 65/h Mpc. Effectively, the differential expansion of space
produced by nearby nonlinear structures of local voids and denser walls and
filaments cannot be reduced to a local boost. This hypothesis suggests a
reinterpretation of bulk flows, which may potentially impact on calibration of
supernovae distances, anomalies associated with large angles in the CMB
anisotropy spectrum, and the dark flow inferred from the kinematic
Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect. It is consistent with recent studies that find
evidence for a non-kinematic dipole in the distribution of distant radio
sources.