A fundamental problem in the study of complex networks is to provide
quantitative measures of correlation and information flow between different
parts of a system. To this end, several notions of communicability have been
introduced and applied to a wide variety of real-world networks in recent
years. Several such communicability functions are reviewed in this paper. It is
emphasized that communication and correlation in networks can take place
through many more routes than the shortest paths, a fact that may not have been
sufficiently appreciated in previously proposed correlation measures. In
contrast to these, the communicability measures reviewed in this paper are
defined by taking into account all possible routes between two nodes, assigning
smaller weights to longer ones. This point of view naturally leads to the
definition of communicability in terms of matrix functions, such as the
exponential, resolvent, and hyperbolic functions, in which the matrix argument
is either the adjacency matrix or the graph Laplacian associated with the
network. Considerable insight on communicability can be gained by modeling a
network as a system of oscillators and deriving physical interpretations, both
classical and quantum-mechanical, of various communicability functions.
Applications of communicability measures to the analysis of complex systems are
illustrated on a variety of biological, physical and social networks. The last
part of the paper is devoted to a review of the notion of locality in complex
networks and to computational aspects that by exploiting sparsity can greatly
reduce the computational efforts for the calculation of communicability
functions for large networks.