Respondent-driven sampling (RDS) is a commonly used substitute for random
sampling when studying hidden populations, such as injecting drug users or men
who have sex with men, for which no sampling frame is known. The method is an
extension of the snowball sample method and can, given that some assumptions
are met, generate unbiased population estimates. One key assumption, not likely
to be met, is that the acquaintance network in which the recruitment process
takes place is undirected, meaning that all recruiters should have the
potential to be recruited by the person they recruit. Here we investigate the
potential bias of directedness by simulating RDS on real and artificial network
structures. We show that directedness is likely to generate bias that cannot be
compensated for unless the sampled individuals know how many that potentially
may have recruited them (i.e. their indegree), which is unlikely in most
situations. Based on one known parameter, we propose an estimator for RDS on
directed networks when only outdegrees are observed.
  By comparison of current RDS estimators' performances on networks with
varying structures, we find that our new estimator, together with a recent
estimator, which requires the population size as a known quantity, have
relatively low level of estimate error and bias. Based on our new estimator,
sensitivity analysis can be made by varying values of the known parameter to
take uncertainty of network directedness and error in reporting degrees into
account. Finally, we have developed a bootstrap procedure for the new estimator
to construct confidence intervals.