Any non-spherical distribution of density inside planets and stars gives rise
to a non-spherical external gravity and change of shape. If part or all of the
observed zonal flows at the cloud deck of giant planets represent deep interior
dynamics, then the density perturbations associated with the deep zonal flows
could generate gravitational signals detectable by the planned Juno mission and
the Cassini Proximal Orbits. It is currently debated whether the thermal wind
equation (TWE) can be used to calculate the gravity field associated with deep
zonal flows. Here we present a critical comparison between the Euler equation
and the thermal wind equation. Our analysis shows that the applicability of the
TWE in calculating the gravity moments depends crucially on retaining the
non-sphericity of the background density and gravity. Only when the background
non-sphericity of the planet is taken into account, the TWE makes accurate
enough prediction (with a few tens of percent errors) for the high-degree
gravity moments associated with deep zonal flows. Since the TWE is derived from
the curl of the Euler equation and is a local relation, it necessarily says
nothing about any density perturbations that contribute irrotational terms to
the Euler equation and that has a non-local origin. However, the predicted
corrections from these density contributions to the low harmonic degree gravity
moments are not discernible from insignificant changes in interior models while
the corrections at high harmonic degree are very small, tens of percent or
less.