We address the long-time behavior of a non-rotational von Karman plate in an
inviscid potential flow. The model arises in aeroelasticity and models the
interaction between a thin, nonlinear panel and a flow of gas in which it is
immersed [6, 21, 23]. Recent results in [16, 18] show that the plate component
of the dynamics (in the presence of a physical plate nonlinearity) converge to
a global compact attracting set of finite dimension; these results were
obtained in the absence of mechanical damping of any type. Here we show that,
by incorporating mechanical damping the full flow-plate system, full
trajectories---both plate and flow---converge strongly to (the set of)
stationary states. Weak convergence results require "minimal" interior damping,
and strong convergence of the dynamics are shown with sufficiently large
damping. We require the existence of a "good" energy balance equation, which is
only available when the flows are subsonic. Our proof is based on first showing
the convergence properties for regular solutions, which in turn requires
propagation of initial regularity on the infinite horizon. Then, we utilize the
exponential decay of the difference of two plate trajectories to show that full
flow-plate trajectories are uniform-in-time Hadamard continuous. This allows us
to pass convergence properties of smooth initial data to finite energy type
initial data. Physically, our results imply that flutter (a non-static end
behavior) does not occur in subsonic dynamics. While such results were known
for rotational (compact/regular) plate dynamics [14] (and references therein),
the result presented herein is the first such result obtained for
non-regularized---the most physically relevant---models.