We investigate several robust preconditioners for solving the saddle-point
linear systems that arise from spatial discretization of unsteady and steady
variable-coefficient Stokes equations on a uniform staggered grid. Building on
the success of using the classical projection method as a preconditioner for
the coupled velocity-pressure system [B. E. Griffith, J. Comp. Phys., 228
(2009), pp. 75657595], as well as established techniques for steady and
unsteady Stokes flow in the finite-element literature, we construct
preconditioners that employ independent generalized Helmholtz and Poisson
solvers for the velocity and pressure subproblems. We demonstrate that only a
single cycle of a standard geometric multigrid algorithm serves as an effective
inexact solver for each of these subproblems. Contrary to traditional wisdom,
we find that the Stokes problem can be solved nearly as efficiently as the
independent pressure and velocity subproblems, making the overall cost of
solving the Stokes system comparable to the cost of classical projection or
fractional step methods for incompressible flow, even for steady flow and in
the presence of large density and viscosity contrasts. Two of the five
preconditioners considered here are found to be robust to GMRES restarts and to
increasing problem size, making them suitable for large-scale problems. Our
work opens many possibilities for constructing novel unsplit temporal
integrators for finite-volume spatial discretizations of the equations of low
Mach and incompressible flow dynamics.