We use high-resolution UV spectra taken by the Space Telescope Imaging
Spectrograph instrument on board the Hubble Space Telescope to study the 5.5 pc
line of sight to the K0 V star 36 Oph A. The one interstellar component
detected for this line of sight has a velocity inconsistent with the local
interstellar cloud (LIC) flow vector, but consistent with the flow vector of
the so-called G cloud, a very nearby warm cloud in the Galactic Center
direction. From our data, we measure the following values for the interstellar
temperature, nonthermal velocity, H I column density, and D/H value:
T=5900+/-500 K, xi=2.2+/-0.2$ km/s, log N(H)=17.85+/-0.15, and
D/H=(1.5+/-0.5)e-5. The temperature of the G cloud is somewhat lower than that
of the LIC, and Mg and Fe depletions are also lower, but the D/H value appears
to be the same. Based on upper limits for the LIC absorption, we estimate the
distance to the edge of the LIC to be d(edge)<0.19 pc, which the Sun will reach
in t(edge)<7400 yrs. The H I Lyman-alpha absorption line has properties
inconsistent with those of the other absorption lines, indicating the presence
of one or more absorption components not seen in the other lines. We present
evidence that hot neutral hydrogen local to both the Sun and the star is
responsible for the excess Lyman-alpha absorption. This hot H I is created by
the interaction between the ISM and the winds of the Sun and 36 Oph A. The
observed line of sight lies only 12 degrees from the upwind direction of the
LIC flow vector, where hydrodynamic models of the heliosphere suggest that
heliospheric H I absorption should be particularly prominent.