Here we propose a new approach to modeling gene expression based on the
theory of random dynamical systems (RDS) that provides a general coupling
prescription between the nodes of any given regulatory network given the
dynamics of each node is modeled by a RDS. The main virtues of this approach
are the following: (i) it provides a natural way to obtain arbitrarily large
networks by coupling together simple basic pieces, thus revealing the
modularity of regulatory networks; (ii) the assumptions about the stochastic
processes used in the modeling are fairly general, in the sense that the only
requirement is stationarity; (iii) there is a well developed mathematical
theory, which is a blend of smooth dynamical systems theory, ergodic theory and
stochastic analysis that allows one to extract relevant dynamical and
statistical information without solving the system; (iv) one may obtain the
classical rate equations form the corresponding stochastic version by averaging
the dynamic random variables. It is important to emphasize that unlike the
deterministic case, where coupling two equations is a trivial matter, coupling
two RDS is non-trivial, specially in our case, where the coupling is performed
between a state variable of one gene and the switching stochastic process of
another gene and, hence, it is not a priori true that the resulting coupled
system will satisfy the definition of a random dynamical system. We shall
provide the necessary arguments that ensure that our coupling prescription does
indeed furnish a notion of coupled random dynamical system. Finally, we
illustrate our framework with three simple examples of "single-gene dynamics",
which are the build blocks of our networks.