We study the behavior of vortex matter in artificial flow channels confined
by pinned vortices in the channel edges (CE's). The critical current $J_s$ is
governed by the interaction with static vortices in the CE's. We study
structural changes associated with (in)commensurability between the channel
width $w$ and the natural row spacing $b_0$, and their effect on $J_s$. The
behavior depends crucially on the presence of disorder in the CE arrays. For
ordered CE's, maxima in $J_s$ occur at matching $w=nb_0$ ($n$ integer), while
for $w\neq nb_0$ defects along the CE's cause a vanishing $J_s$. For weak CE
disorder, the sharp peaks in $J_s$ at $w=nb_0$ become smeared via nucleation
and pinning of defects. The corresponding quasi-1D $n$ row configurations can
be described by a (disordered)sine-Gordon model. For larger disorder and
$w\simeq nb_0$, $J_s$ levels at $\sim 30 %$ of the ideal lattice strength
$J_s^0$. Around 'half filling' ($w/b_0 \simeq n\pm 1/2$), disorder causes new
features, namely {\it misaligned} defects and coexistence of $n$ and $n \pm 1$
rows in the channel. This causes a {\it maximum} in $J_s$ around mismatch,
while $J_s$ smoothly decreases towards matching due to annealing of the
misaligned regions. We study the evolution of static and dynamic structures on
changing $w/b_0$, the relation between modulations of $J_s$ and transverse
fluctuations and dynamic ordering of the arrays. The numerical results at
strong disorder show good qualitative agreement with recent mode-locking
experiments.