The beep model is a very weak communications model in which devices in a
network can communicate only via beeps and silence. As a result of its weak
assumptions, it has broad applicability to many different implementations of
communications networks. This comes at the cost of a restrictive environment
for algorithm design.
  Despite being only recently introduced, the beep model has received
considerable attention, in part due to its relationship with other
communication models such as that of ad-hoc radio networks. However, there has
been no definitive published result for several fundamental tasks in the model.
We aim to rectify this with our paper.
  We present algorithms for the tasks of broadcast, gossiping, and
multi-broadcast. Our $O(D+\log M)$-time algorithm for broadcasting is a simple
formalization of a concept known as beep waves, and is asymptotically optimal.
We give an $O(n \log L)$-time depth-first search procedure, and show how this
can be used as the basis for an $O(n \log LM)$-time gossiping algorithm.
Finally, we present almost optimal algorithms for the more general problem of
multi-broadcast. When message provenance is required, we give an $O(k \log
\frac{LM}{k}+D \log L)$-time algorithm and a corresponding $\Omega(k \log
\frac{LM}{k}+D)$ lower bound. When provenance is not required, we give an
algorithm taking $O(k \log \frac {M}{k}+D \log L)$ time when $M>k$ and $O(M+D
\log L)$ otherwise, and a corresponding lower bound of $\Omega(k \log
\frac{M}{k}+D)$ when $M>k$ and $\Omega(M+D)$ otherwise.
  Our algorithms are all explicit, deterministic, and practical, and give
efficient means of communication while making arguably the minimum possible
assumptions about the network.