We probe the flow of two dimensional foams, consisting of a monolayer of
bubbles sandwiched between a liquid bath and glass plate, as a function of
driving rate, packing fraction and degree of disorder. First, we find that
bidisperse, disordered foams exhibit strongly rate dependent and inhomogeneous
(shear banded) velocity profiles, while monodisperse, ordered foams are also
shear banded, but essentially rate independent. Second, we introduce a simple
model based on balancing the averaged drag forces between the bubbles and the
top plate and the averaged bubble-bubble drag forces. This model captures the
observed rate dependent flows, and the rate independent flows. Third, we
perform independent rheological measurements, both for ordered and disordered
systems, and find these to be fully consistent with the scaling forms of the
drag forces assumed in the simple model, and we see that disorder modifies the
scaling. Fourth, we vary the packing fraction $\phi$ of the foam over a
substantial range, and find that the flow profiles become increasingly shear
banded when the foam is made wetter. Surprisingly, our model describes flow
profiles and rate dependence over the whole range of packing fractions with the
same power law exponents -- only a dimensionless number $k$ which measures the
ratio of the pre-factors of the viscous drag laws is seen to vary with packing
fraction. We find that $k \sim (\phi-\phi_c)^{-1}$, where $\phi_c \approx
0.84$, corresponding to the 2d jamming density, and suggest that this scaling
follows from the geometry of the deformed facets between bubbles in contact.
Overall, our work suggests a route to rationalize aspects of the ubiquitous
Herschel-Bulkley (power law) rheology observed in a wide range of disordered
materials.