Information of many kinds is flowing in software projects and organizations.
Requirements have to flow from the customer to the developers. Testers need to
know the requirements as well. Boundary conditions and design decisions have to
be at the right place at the right time. Information flow analysis with FLOW
facilitates modeling of mode and route of the flow of information and
experience independent of the development methodology. Experience often acts as
a control factor, because experienced developers can process and route
information more efficiently. Therefore, experience needs to be at the right
place at the right time, too. However, most valuable experiences never get
documented. Since information and experience is flowing in agile as well as in
traditional environments, the FLOW method does not distinguish between agile
and traditional, but only between how the flows are shaped.
  ----
  In Softwareprojekten flie{\ss}en vielerlei Informationen. Anforderungen
m\"ussen vom Kunden zu den Entwicklern gelangen. Auch Tester m\"ussen die
Anforderungen kennen. Randbedingungen und Entwurfsentscheidungen m\"ussen zur
rechten Zeit am rechten Ort sein. Die Informationsflussanalyse mit FLOW
erm\"oglicht es, unabh\"angig von der Entwicklungsmethode zu modellieren, wie
und auf welchem Wege Informationen und Erfahrungen flie{\ss}en. Erfahrungen
spielen dabei oft die Rolle von Steuergr\"o{\ss}en, denn erfahrene Mitarbeiter
k\"onnen Informationen kompetenter bearbeiten und weiterleiten. Auch die
Erfahrungen m\"ussen in geeigneter Form zur rechten Zeit am rechten Ort sein.
Viele Erfahrungen werden aber nie dokumentiert. Da Informationen und
Erfahrungen sowohl in agilen als auch in traditionellen Umgebungen flie{\ss}en
m\"ussen, wird in FLOW ein Modell aufgebaut, das nicht nach agil, traditionell
oder anderen Bezeichnungen unterscheidet, sondern einzig danach, wie die
Fl\"usse gestaltet sind.