In our recent work [H. Zhang, F.X. Trias, A. Oliva, D. Yang, Y. Tan, Y.
Sheng. PIBM: Particulate immersed boundary method for fluid-particle
interaction problems. Powder Technology. 272(2015), 1-13.], a particulate
immersed boundary method (PIBM) for simulating fluid-particle multiphase flow
was proposed and assessed in both two- and three-dimensional applications. In
this study, the PIBM was extended to solve thermal interaction problems between
spherical particles and fluid. The Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM) was adopted
to solve the fluid flow and temperature fields, the PIBM was responsible for
the non-slip velocity and temperature boundary conditions at the particle
surface, and the kinematics and trajectory of the solid particles were
evaluated by the Discrete Element Method (DEM). Four case studies were
implemented to demonstrate the capability of the current coupling scheme.
Firstly, numerical simulation of natural convection in a two-dimensional square
cavity with an isothermal concentric annulus was carried out for verification
purpose. The current results were found to have good agreements with previous
references. Then, sedimentation of two- and three-dimensional isothermal
particles in fluid was numerically studied, respectively. The instantaneous
temperature distribution in the cavity was captured. The effect of the thermal
buoyancy on particle behaviors was discussed. At last, sedimentation of
three-dimensional thermosensitive particles in fluid was numerically
investigated. Our results revealed that the LBM-PIBM-DEM is a promising scheme
for the solution of complex fluid-particle interaction problems with heat
transfer.