The invariance method of Lie-groups in the theory of turbulence carries the
high expectation of being a first principle method for generating statistical
scaling laws. The purpose of this comment is to show that this expectation has
not been met so far. In particular for wall-bounded turbulent flows, the
prospects for success are not promising in view of the facts we will present
herein. Although the invariance method of Lie-groups is explicitly able to
generate statistical scaling laws for wall-bounded turbulent flows, like the
log-law for example, these invariant results yet not only fail to fulfil the
basic requirements for a first principle result, but also are strongly
misleading. The reason is that not the functional structure of the log-law
itself is misleading, but that its invariant Lie-group based derivation
yielding this function is what is misleading. By revisiting the study of
Oberlack (2001) [Oberlack, M., 2001. A unified approach for symmetries in plane
parallel turbulent shear flows. J. Fluid Mech. 427, pp. 299-328] we will
demonstrate that all Lie-group generated scaling laws derived therein do not
convince as first principle solutions. Instead, a rigorous derivation reveals
complete arbitrariness rather than uniqueness in the construction of invariant
turbulent scaling laws. Nevertheless, even if the method of Lie-groups in its
full extent is applied and interpreted correctly, strong natural limits of this
method within the theory of turbulence exist, which, as will be finally
discussed, constitute insurmountable obstacles in the progress of achieving a
significant breakthrough.