We present two numerical schemes for passive tracer particles in the
hydrodynamical moving-mesh code AREPO, and compare their performance for
various problems, from simple setups to cosmological simulations. The purpose
of tracer particles is to allow the flow to be followed in a Lagrangian way,
tracing the evolution of the fluid with time, and allowing the thermodynamical
history of individual fluid parcels to be recorded. We find that the
commonly-used `velocity field tracers', which are advected using the fluid
velocity field, do not in general follow the mass flow correctly, and explain
why this is the case. This method can result in orders-of-magnitude biases in
simulations of driven turbulence and in cosmological simulations, rendering the
velocity field tracers inappropriate for following these flows. We then discuss
a novel implementation of `Monte Carlo tracers', which are moved along with
fluid cells, and are exchanged probabilistically between them following the
mass flux. This method reproduces the mass distribution of the fluid correctly.
The main limitation of this approach is that it is more diffusive than the
fluid itself. Nonetheless, we show that this novel approach is more reliable
than what has been employed previously and demonstrate that it is appropriate
for following hydrodynamical flows in mesh-based codes. The Monte Carlo tracers
can also naturally be transferred between fluid cells and other types of
particles, such as stellar particles, so that the mass flow in cosmological
simulations can be followed in its entirety.