Device-to-device (D2D) communication enables direct communication between
proximate devices thereby improving the overall spectrum utilization and
offloading traffic from cellular networks. This paper develops a new spatial
model for D2D networks in which the device locations are modeled as a Poisson
cluster process. Using this model, we study the performance of a typical D2D
receiver in terms of coverage probability under two realistic content
availability setups: (i) content of interest for a typical device is available
at a device chosen uniformly at random from the same cluster, which we term
uniform content availability, and (ii) content of interest is available at the
$k^{th}$ closest device from the typical device inside the same cluster, which
we term $k$-closest content availability. Using these coverage probability
results, we also characterize the area spectral efficiency (ASE) of the whole
network for the two setups. A key intermediate step in this analysis is the
derivation of the distributions of distances from a typical device to both the
intra- and inter-cluster devices. Our analysis reveals that an optimum number
of D2D transmitters must be simultaneously activated per cluster in order to
maximize ASE. This can be interpreted as the classical tradeoff between more
aggressive frequency reuse and higher interference power. The optimum number of
simultaneously transmitting devices and the resulting ASE increase as the
content is made available closer to the receivers. Our analysis also quantifies
the best and worst case performance of clustered D2D networks both in terms of
coverage and ASE.