Quasi-Periodic Oscillations (QPOs) are very puzzling since they remain
totally unexplained by popular earlier models of accretion disks. The
significant rms value in power density spectrum implies that the oscillation
involves in the dynamical and non-linear variation of certain region of the
accretion disk itself. The nature of the energy dependence implies that the
region which produces Comptonized hard tail is also responsible for QPOs.
Similarly, the occurrences of the QPOs are strongly related to the jet
formation and the spectral states. These features are the natural consequences
of the advective disk paradigm that we are advocating. In the mid 90s, some of
the present contributors first pointed out that the QPOs in all possible types of
black holes may be simply due to the oscillations of the CENBOL, the
CENtrifugal pressure supported BOundary Layer which is formed in the
sub-Keplerian flows around a black hole. This CENBOL could be axi-symmetric as
well as non-axisymteric in nature since its boundary, namely, the centrifugally
driven shocks could be axi-symmetric or non-axisymmetric. In addition, we
pointed out that the transition radius where the flow becomes Keplerian to
sub-Keplerian, as well as the location of the inner sonic point can also
oscillate and produce the QPOs. Since the shock locations are functions of the
specific angular momentum ($\lambda$) and specific energy (${\cal E}$) of the
flow, our model naturally predicts that the QPO frequency should vary with
mass, spin, $\lambda$ and ${\cal E}$. The QPO frequencies with specific ratios,
such as, 2:3 must be due to non-axisymmetric effects when the shock switches
between the two-armed and the three-armed spirals. We also discuss the possible
effects that the disk inclination might have with the line of sight.