Cascades on random networks are typically analyzed by assuming they map onto
percolation processes and then are solved using generating function
formulations. This approach assumes that the network is infinite and weakly
connected, yet furthermore approximates a dynamic cascading process as a static
percolation event. In this paper we propose a dynamic Markov model formulation
that assumes a finite network with arbitrary average nodal degree. We apply it
to the case where cascades follow a threshold rule, that is, that a node will
change state ("flip") only if a fraction, exceeding a given threshold, of its
neighbors has changed state previously. The corresponding state transition
matrix, recalculated after each step, records the probability that a node of
degree k has i flipped neighbors after j steps in the cascade's evolution. This
theoretical model reproduces a number of behaviors observed in simulations but
not yet reported in the literature. These include the ability to predict
cascades in a domain previously predicted to forbid cascades without assuming
that the network is locally tree-like, and, due to the dynamic nature of the
model, a "near death" behavior in which cascades initially appear about to die
but later explode. Cascades in the "no cascades" region require a sufficiently
large seed of initially flipped nodes whose size scales with the size of the
network or else the cascade will die out. Our theory also predicts the well
known properties of cascades, for instance that a single node seed can start a
global cascade in the appropriate regime regardless of the (finite) size of the
network. The theory and simulations developed here are compared with a
foundational paper by Watts which used generating function theory.