Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks (GRNs)
controlling many essential biological functions, including cellular
differentiation and cell cycle control. However, establishing the network
topologies that can exhibit bistability remains a challenge, in part due to the
exceedingly large variety of GRNs that exist for even a small number of
components. We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction
network theory in a comprehensive in silico survey to determine the capacity
for bistability of more than 40,000 simple networks that can be formed by two
transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins (assuming only
the most elementary biochemical processes). We find that there exist reaction
rate constants leading to bistability in ~90% of these GRN models, including
several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly
associated with bistable systems, and the majority of which could only be
identified as bistable through an original subnetwork-based analysis. A
topological sorting of the two-gene family of networks based on the presence or
absence of biochemical reactions reveals eleven minimal bistable networks
(i.e., bistable networks that do not contain within them a smaller bistable
subnetwork). The large number of previously unknown bistable network topologies
suggests that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with
relative ease and is not easily lost through network evolution. To highlight
the relevance of the systematic application of CRNT to bistable network
identification in real biological systems, we integrated publicly available
protein-protein interaction, protein-DNA interaction, and gene expression data
from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and identified several GRNs predicted to behave
in a bistable fashion.