We elaborate on a general method that we recently introduced for
characterizing the "natural" structures in complex physical systems via a
multiscale network based approach for the data mining of such structures. The
approach is based on "community detection" wherein interacting particles are
partitioned into "an ideal gas" of optimally decoupled groups of particles.
Specifically, we construct a set of network representations ("replicas") of the
physical system based on interatomic potentials and apply a multiscale
clustering ("multiresolution community detection") analysis using
information-based correlations among the replicas. Replicas may be (i)
different representations of an identical static system or (ii) embody dynamics
by when considering replicas to be time separated snapshots of the system (with
a tunable time separation) or (iii) encode general correlations when different
replicas correspond to different representations of the entire history of the
system as it evolves in space-time. We apply our method to computer simulations
of a binary Kob-Andersen Lennard-Jones system, a ternary model system, and to
atomic coordinates in a ZrPt system as gleaned by reverse Monte Carlo analysis
of experimentally determined structure factors. We identify the dominant
structures (disjoint or overlapping) and general length scales by analyzing
extrema of the information theory measures. We speculate on possible links
between (i) physical transitions or crossovers and (ii) changes in structures
found by this method as well as phase transitions associated with the
computational complexity of the community detection problem. We briefly also
consider continuum approaches and discuss the shear penetration depth in
elastic media; this length scale increases as the system becomes increasingly
rigid.