The Earth movers distance (EMD) is a measure of distance between probability
distributions which is at the heart of mass transportation theory. Recent
research has shown that the EMD plays a crucial role in studying the potential
impact of Demand-Responsive Transportation (DRT) and Mobility-on-Demand (MoD)
systems, which are growing paradigms for one-way vehicle sharing where people
drive (or are driven by) shared vehicles from a point of origin to a point of
destination. While the ubiquitous physical transportation setting is the road
network, characterized by systems of roads connected together by interchanges,
most analytical works about vehicle sharing represent distances between points
in a plane using the simple Euclidean metric. Instead, we consider the EMD when
the ground metric is taken from a class of one-dimensional, continuous metric
spaces, reminiscent of road networks. We produce an explicit formulation of the
Earth movers distance given any finite road network R. The result generalizes
the EMD with a Euclidean R1 ground metric, which had remained one of the only
known non-discrete cases with an explicit formula. Our formulation casts the
EMD as the optimal value of a finite-dimensional, real-valued optimization
problem, with a convex objective function and linear constraints. In the
special case that the input distributions have piece-wise uniform (constant)
density, the problem reduces to one whose objective function is convex
quadratic. Both forms are amenable to modern mathematical programming
techniques.