Given a set of robots with arbitrary initial location and no agreement on a
global coordinate system, convergence requires that all robots asymptotically
approach the exact same, but unknown beforehand, location. Robots are
oblivious-- they do not recall the past computations -- and are allowed to move
in a one-dimensional space. Additionally, robots cannot communicate directly,
instead they obtain system related information only via visual sensors. We draw
a connection between the convergence problem in robot networks, and the
distributed \emph{approximate agreement} problem (that requires correct
processes to decide, for some constant $\epsilon$, values distance $\epsilon$
apart and within the range of initial proposed values). Surprisingly, even
though specifications are similar, the convergence implementation in robot
networks requires specific assumptions about synchrony and Byzantine
resilience. In more details, we prove necessary and sufficient conditions for
the convergence of mobile robots despite a subset of them being Byzantine (i.e.
they can exhibit arbitrary behavior). Additionally, we propose a deterministic
convergence algorithm for robot networks and analyze its correctness and
complexity in various synchrony settings. The proposed algorithm tolerates f
Byzantine robots for (2f+1)-sized robot networks in fully synchronous networks,
(3f+1)-sized in semi-synchronous networks. These bounds are optimal for the
class of cautious algorithms, which guarantee that correct robots always move
inside the range of positions of the correct robots.