We abstract the essential aspects of network-error detecting and correcting
codes to arrive at the definitions of matroidal error detecting networks and
matroidal error correcting networks. An acyclic network (with arbitrary sink
demands) is then shown to possess a scalar linear error detecting (correcting)
network code if and only if it is a matroidal error detecting (correcting)
network associated with a representable matroid. Therefore, constructing such
network-error correcting and detecting codes implies the construction of
certain representable matroids that satisfy some special conditions, and vice
versa. We then present algorithms which enable the construction of matroidal
error detecting and correcting networks with a specified capability of
network-error correction. Using these construction algorithms, a large class of
hitherto unknown scalar linearly solvable networks with multisource multicast
and multiple-unicast network-error correcting codes is made available for
theoretical use and practical implementation, with parameters such as number of
information symbols, number of sinks, number of coding nodes, error correcting
capability, etc. being arbitrary but for computing power (for the execution of
the algorithms). The complexity of the construction of these networks is shown
to be comparable to the complexity of existing algorithms that design multicast
scalar linear network-error correcting codes. Finally we also show that linear
network coding is not sufficient for the general network-error detection
problem with arbitrary demands. In particular, for the same number of
network-errors, we show a network for which there is a nonlinear network-error
detecting code satisfying the demands at the sinks, while there are no linear
network-error detecting codes that do the same.