We study the statistical properties of a simple genetic regulatory network
that provides heterogeneity within a population of cells. This network consists
of a binary genetic switch in which stochastic flipping between the two switch
states is mediated by a "flipping" enzyme. Feedback between the switch state
and the flipping rate is provided by a linear feedback mechanism: the flipping
enzyme is only produced in the on switch state and the switching rate depends
linearly on the copy number of the enzyme. This work generalises the model of
[Phys. Rev. Lett., 101, 118104] to a broader class of linear feedback systems.
We present a complete analytical solution for the steady-state statistics of
the number of enzyme molecules in the on and off states, for the general case
where the enzyme can mediate flipping in either direction. For this general
case we also solve for the flip time distribution, making a connection to first
passage and persistence problems in statistical physics. We show that the
statistics of the model are non-Poissonian, leading to a peak in the flip time
distribution. The occurrence of such a peak is analysed as a function of the
parameter space. We present a new relation between the flip time distributions
measured for two relevant choices of initial condition. We also introduce a new
correlation measure to show that this model can exhibit long-lived temporal
correlations, thus providing a primitive form of cellular memory. Motivated by
DNA replication as well as by evolutionary mechanisms involving gene
duplication, we study the case of two switches in the same cell. This results
in correlations between the two switches; these can either positive or negative
depending on the parameter regime.