Steady-state solutions for a variety of relevant queueing systems are known
today, e.g., from queueing theory, effective bandwidths, and network calculus.
The behavior during transient phases, on the other hand, is understood to a
much lesser extent as its analysis poses significant challenges. Considering
the majority of short-lived flows, transient effects that have diverse causes,
such as TCP slow start, sleep scheduling in wireless networks, or signalling in
cellular networks, are, however, predominant. This paper contributes a general
model of regenerative service processes to characterize the transient behavior
of systems. The model leads to a notion of non-stationary service curves that
can be conveniently integrated into the framework of the stochastic network
calculus. We derive respective models of sleep scheduling and show the
significant impact of transient phases on backlogs and delays. We also consider
measurement methods that estimate the service of an unknown system from
observations of selected probe traffic. We find that the prevailing rate
scanning method does not recover the service during transient phases well. This
limitation is fundamental as it is explained by the non-convexity of
non-stationary service curves. A second key difficulty is proven to be due to
the super-additivity of network service processes. We devise a novel two-phase
probing technique that first determines a minimal pattern of probe traffic.
This probe is used to obtain an accurate estimate of the unknown transient
service.