We study the structure of social networks of students by examining the graphs
of Facebook "friendships" at five American universities at a single point in
time. We investigate each single-institution network's community structure and
employ graphical and quantitative tools, including standardized pair-counting
methods, to measure the correlations between the network communities and a set
of self-identified user characteristics (residence, class year, major, and high
school). We review the basic properties and statistics of the pair-counting
indices employed and recall, in simplified notation, a useful analytical
formula for the z-score of the Rand coefficient. Our study illustrates how to
examine different instances of social networks constructed in similar
environments, emphasizes the array of social forces that combine to form
"communities," and leads to comparative observations about online social lives
that can be used to infer comparisons about offline social structures. In our
illustration of this methodology, we calculate the relative contributions of
different characteristics to the community structure of individual universities
and subsequently compare these relative contributions at different
universities, measuring for example the importance of common high school
affiliation to large state universities and the varying degrees of influence
common major can have on the social structure at different universities. The
heterogeneity of communities that we observe indicates that these networks
typically have multiple organizing factors rather than a single dominant one.