Dynamic extinction colonisation models (also called contact processes) are
widely studied in epidemiology and in metapopulation theory. Contacts are
usually assumed to be possible only through a network of connected patches.
This network accounts for a spatial landscape or a social organisation of
interactions. Thanks to social network literature, heterogeneous networks of
contacts can be considered. A major issue is to assess the influence of the
network in the dynamic model. Most work with this common purpose uses
deterministic models or an approximation of a stochastic
Extinction-Colonisation model (sEC) which are relevant only for large networks.
When working with a limited size network, the induced stochasticity is
essential and has to be taken into account in the conclusions. Here, a rigorous
framework is proposed for limited size networks and the limitations of the
deterministic approximation are exhibited. This framework allows exact
computations when the number of patches is small. Otherwise, simulations are
used and enhanced by adapted simulation techniques when necessary. A
sensitivity analysis was conducted to compare four main topologies of networks
in contrasting settings to determine the role of the network. A challenging
case was studied in this context: seed exchange of crop species in the R\'eseau
Semences Paysannes (RSP), an emergent French farmers' organisation. A
stochastic Extinction-Colonisation model was used to characterize the
consequences of substantial changes in terms of RSP's social organisation on
the ability of the system to maintain crop varieties.