Large-scale white matter pathways crisscrossing the cortex create a complex
pattern of connectivity that underlies human cognitive function. Generative
mechanisms for this architecture have been difficult to identify in part
because little is known about mechanistic drivers of structured networks. Here
we contrast network properties derived from diffusion spectrum imaging data of
the human brain with 13 synthetic network models chosen to probe the roles of
physical network embedding and temporal network growth. We characterize both
the empirical and synthetic networks using familiar diagnostics presented in
statistical form, as scatter plots and distributions, to reveal the full range
of variability of each measure across scales in the network. We focus on the
degree distribution, degree assortativity, hierarchy, topological Rentian
scaling, and topological fractal scaling---in addition to several summary
statistics, including the mean clustering coefficient, shortest path length,
and network diameter. The models are investigated in a progressive, branching
sequence, aimed at capturing different elements thought to be important in the
brain, and range from simple random and regular networks, to models that
incorporate specific growth rules and constraints. We find that synthetic
models that constrain the network nodes to be embedded in anatomical brain
regions tend to produce distributions that are similar to those extracted from
the brain. We also find that network models hardcoded to display one network
property do not in general also display a second, suggesting that multiple
neurobiological mechanisms might be at play in the development of human brain
network architecture. Together, the network models that we develop and employ
provide a potentially useful starting point for the statistical inference of
brain network structure from neuroimaging data.