We propose a Statistical-Mechanics inspired framework for modeling economic
systems. Each agent composing the economic system is characterized by a few
variables of distinct nature (e.g. saving ratio, expectations, etc.). The
agents interact locally by their individual variables: for example, people
working in the same office may influence their peers' expectations
(optimism/pessimism are contagious), while people living in the same
neighborhood may influence their peers' saving patterns (stinginess/largeness
are contagious). Thus, for each type of variable there exists a different
underlying social network, which we refer to as a ``layer''. Each layer
connects the same set of agents by a different set of links defining a
different topology. In different layers, the nature of the variables and their
dynamics may be different (Ising, Heisenberg, matrix models, etc). The
different variables belonging to the same agent interact (the level of optimism
of an agent may influence its saving level), thus coupling the various layers.
We present a simple instance of such a network, where a one-dimensional Ising
chain (representing the interaction between the optimist-pessimist
expectations) is coupled through a random site-to-site mapping to a
one-dimensional generalized Blume-Capel chain (representing the dynamics of the
agents' saving ratios). In the absence of coupling between the layers, the
one-dimensional systems describing respectively the expectations and the saving
ratios do not feature any ordered phase (herding). Yet, such a herding phase
emerges in the coupled system, highlighting the non-trivial nature of the
present framework.