A black hole accretion may have both the Keplerian and the sub-Keplerian
component. In the so-called Chakrabarti-Titarchuk scenario, the Keplerian
component supplies low energy (soft) photons while the sub-Keplerian component
supplies hot electrons which exchange their energy with the soft photons
through Comptonization or inverse Comptonization processes. In the
sub-Keplerian component, a shock is generally produced due to the centrifugal
force. The postshock region is known as the CENtrifugal pressure-supported
BOundary Layer (CENBOL). In this paper, we compute the effects of the thermal
and the bulk motion Comptonization on the soft photons emitted from a Keplerian
disk by the CENBOL, the preshock sub-Keplerian disk and the outflowing jet. We
study the emerging spectrum when the converging inflow and the diverging
outflow (generated from the CENBOL) are simultaneously present. From the
strength of the shock, we calculate the percentage of matter being carried away
by the outflow and determine how the emerging spectrum depends on the outflow
rate. The preshock sub-Keplerian flow is also found to Comptonize the soft
photons significantly. The interplay between the up-scattering and
down-scattering effects determines the effective shape of the emerging
spectrum. By simulating several cases with various inflow parameters, we
conclude that whether the preshock flow, or the postshock CENBOL or the
emerging jet is dominant in shaping the emerging spectrum depends strongly on
the geometry of the flow and the strength of the shock in the sub-Keplerian
flow.