We re-analyze the possibility of large scale dark (or bulk) flow with respect
to the CMB background based upon the redshift-distance relation for Type Ia
supernovae (SN Ia). We have made two analyses: one identifying the three
dimensional Cartesian velocity components; the other analyzes the cosine
dependence on the sky. Fits were for z < 0.05 and z > 0.05 using both Union2.1
and SDSS-II supernova survey. We also study simulated data in which a bulk flow
is imposed to determine whether the difficulty in detecting a bulk flow at high
redshift is due to uncertainty in the redshift-distance relation, confusion
with peculiar velocities, or the absence of a bulk flow. We find a bulk flow
velocity of $270 \pm 30 \text{ km s}^{-1}$ in the direction $(l,b)=(295 \pm 30,
10 \pm 5)^{\circ}$ in the Cartesian anaylsis, while the cosine analysis that
gives $325 \pm 50 \text{ km s}^{-1}$ in the direction $(l,b)=(276 \pm 15, 37
\pm 3)^{\circ}$, consistent with previous analyses. In the redshift bin z >
0.05, however, we find only marginal evidence for a bulk flow velocity. We also
find that the SDSS-II supernova data set has insufficient sky coverage to
provide a meaningful result. From simulated data sets, we deduce that the
current uncertainty at high redshifts arises mostly from the current error in
the distance modulus. We estimate that with a sample like the Union2.1 data
set, a detection would require both significant sky coverage of SN Ia out to z
= 0.3 and a distance modulus error reduction from 0.2 to $\lesssim$0.02 mag.
However, a greatly expanded data set of ~3$\times 10^4$ events might detect a
bulk flow even with a typical distance modulus error of 0.2 mag. This data set
size may be achievable with the next generation of large surveys like LSST.