We have analyzed X-ray spectra from six galaxy clusters which contain cooling
flows: A85, A478, A1795, A2142, A2147, & A2199. The X-ray spectra were taken
with the HEAO1-A2 Medium and High Energy Detectors and the Einstein Solid State
Spectrometer. For each cluster, we simultaneously fit the spectra from these
three detectors with models incorporating one or more emission components
comprised of either thermal or cooling flow models. Five of the clusters (all
but A2142) are better fit by a multi-component model (a cooling flow plus one
or two thermal components or a two thermal component model) than by isothermal
models. In four of the clusters (A85, A1795, A2147, & A2199), we find evidence
for cool gas outside of the canonical cooling flow region. These latter four
clusters can be characterized by three temperature components: a temperature
inversion in the central region, a hotter region with an emission-weighted
temperature which is higher than that of an isothermal model fit to the entire
cluster, and a cooler region with an emission-weighted temperature of ~1 keV.
The cool component outside the cooling flow region has a large minimum emission
measure which we attribute, in part, to diffuse cool gas in the outer cluster
atmosphere. If at least some of the cool exterior gas is virialized, this would
imply a radially decreasing temperature profile. Together with the density
profiles we have found, this leads to a baryon fraction in gas which increases
with radius and is larger than that for an isothermal cluster atmosphere.
Consequently, if clusters of galaxies trace the mass distribution in the
Universe, the gas mass fraction we have calculated for an isothermal gas (which
is ~15%) together with the nominal galaxy contribution (~5%) gives a baryon
fraction of ~20%. Using the upper limit to the baryon density derived from Big