In this paper, a two-step strategy for parametric sensitivity analysis for
such systems is proposed, exploiting advantages and synergies between two
recently proposed sensitivity analysis methodologies for stochastic dynamics.
The first method performs sensitivity analysis of the stochastic dynamics by
means of the Fisher Information Matrix on the underlying distribution of the
trajectories; the second method is a reduced-variance, finite-difference,
gradient-type sensitivity approach relying on stochastic coupling techniques
for variance reduction. Here we demonstrate that these two methods can be
combined and deployed together by means of a new sensitivity bound which
incorporates the variance of the quantity of interest as well as the Fisher
Information Matrix estimated from the first method. The first step of the
proposed strategy labels sensitivities using the bound and screens out the
insensitive parameters in a controlled manner based also on the new sensitivity
bound. In the second step of the proposed strategy, the finite-difference
method is applied only for the sensitivity estimation of the (potentially)
sensitive parameters that have not been screened out in the first step. Results
on an epidermal growth factor network with fifty parameters and on a protein
homeostasis with eighty parameters demonstrate that the proposed strategy is
able to quickly discover and discard the insensitive parameters and in the
remaining potentially sensitive parameters it accurately estimates the
sensitivities. The new sensitivity strategy can be several times faster than
current state-of-the-art approaches that test all parameters, especially in
"sloppy" systems. In particular, the computational acceleration is quantified
by the ratio between the total number of parameters over the number of the
sensitive parameters.