Atmospheric flows exhibit cantorian fractal space-time fluctuations
signifying long-range spatiotemporal correlations. A recently developed cell
dynamical system model shows that such non-local connections are intrinsic to
quantum-like chaos governing flow dynamics. The dynamical evolution of fractal
structures can be quantified in terms of ordered energy flow described by
mathematical functions which occur in the field of number theory. The
quantum-like chaos in atmospheric flows can be quantified in terms of the
following mathematical functions / concepts: (1) The fractal structure of the
flow pattern is resolved into an overall logarithmic spiral trajectory with the
quasiperiodic Penrose tiling pattern for the internal structure and is
equivalent to a hierarchy of vortices. The incorporation of Fibonacci
mathematical series, representative of ramified bifurcations, indicates ordered
growth of fractal patterns. (2) The steady state emergence of progressively
larger fractal structures incorporates unique primary perturbation domains of
progressively increasing number equal to z/lnz where z, the length step growth
stage is equal to the length scale ratio of large eddy to turbulent eddy. In
number theory z/lnz gives the number of primes less than z. The model also
predicts that z/lnz represents the normalised cumulative variance spectrum of
the eddies and which follows statistical normal distribution. The important
result of the study is that the prime number spectrum is the same as the eddy
energy spectrum for quantum-like chaos in atmospheric flows.