In this paper we present distributed and adaptive algorithms for motion
coordination of a group of m autonomous vehicles. The vehicles operate in a
convex environment with bounded velocity and must service demands whose time of
arrival, location and on-site service are stochastic; the objective is to
minimize the expected system time (wait plus service) of the demands. The
general problem is known as the m-vehicle Dynamic Traveling Repairman Problem
(m-DTRP). The best previously known control algorithms rely on centralized
a-priori task assignment and are not robust against changes in the environment,
e.g. changes in load conditions; therefore, they are of limited applicability
in scenarios involving ad-hoc networks of autonomous vehicles operating in a
time-varying environment. First, we present a new class of policies for the
1-DTRP problem that: (i) are provably optimal both in light- and heavy-load
condition, and (ii) are adaptive, in particular, they are robust against
changes in load conditions. Second, we show that partitioning policies, whereby
the environment is partitioned among the vehicles and each vehicle follows a
certain set of rules in its own region, are optimal in heavy-load conditions.
Finally, by combining the new class of algorithms for the 1-DTRP with suitable
partitioning policies, we design distributed algorithms for the m-DTRP problem
that (i) are spatially distributed, scalable to large networks, and adaptive to
network changes, (ii) are within a constant-factor of optimal in heavy-load
conditions and stabilize the system in any load condition. Simulation results
are presented and discussed.