Advancing the size and complexity of neural network models leads to an ever
increasing demand for computational resources for their simulation.
Neuromorphic devices offer a number of advantages over conventional computing
architectures, such as high emulation speed or low power consumption, but this
usually comes at the price of reduced configurability and precision. In this
article, we investigate the consequences of several such factors that are
common to neuromorphic devices, more specifically limited hardware resources,
limited parameter configurability and parameter variations. Our final aim is to
provide an array of methods for coping with such inevitable distortion
mechanisms. As a platform for testing our proposed strategies, we use an
executable system specification (ESS) of the BrainScaleS neuromorphic system,
which has been designed as a universal emulation back-end for neuroscientific
modeling. We address the most essential limitations of this device in detail
and study their effects on three prototypical benchmark network models within a
well-defined, systematic workflow. For each network model, we start by defining
quantifiable functionality measures by which we then assess the effects of
typical hardware-specific distortion mechanisms, both in idealized software
simulations and on the ESS. For those effects that cause unacceptable
deviations from the original network dynamics, we suggest generic compensation
mechanisms and demonstrate their effectiveness. Both the suggested workflow and
the investigated compensation mechanisms are largely back-end independent and
do not require additional hardware configurability beyond the one required to
emulate the benchmark networks in the first place. We hereby provide a generic
methodological environment for configurable neuromorphic devices that are
targeted at emulating large-scale, functional neural networks.