Given a capacitated undirected graph $G=(V,E)$ with a set of terminals $K
\subset V$, a mimicking network is a smaller graph $H=(V_H,E_H)$ that exactly
preserves all the minimum cuts between the terminals. Specifically, the vertex
set of the sparsifier $V_H$ contains the set of terminals $K$ and for every
bipartition $U, K-U $ of the terminals $K$, the size of the minimum cut
separating $U$ from $K-U$ in $G$ is exactly equal to the size of the minimum
cut separating $U$ from $K-U$ in $H$.
  This notion of a mimicking network was introduced by Hagerup, Katajainen,
Nishimura and Ragde (1995) who also exhibited a mimicking network of size
$2^{2^{k}}$ for every graph with $k$ terminals. The best known lower bound on
the size of a mimicking network is linear in the number of terminals. More
precisely, the best known lower bound is $k+1$ for graphs with $k$ terminals
(Chaudhuri et al. 2000).
  In this work, we improve both the upper and lower bounds reducing the
doubly-exponential gap between them to a single-exponential gap. Specifically,
we obtain the following upper and lower bounds on mimicking networks: 1) Given
a graph $G$, we exhibit a construction of mimicking network with at most
$(|K|-1)$'th Dedekind number ($\approx 2^{{(k-1)} \choose {\lfloor {{(k-1)}/2}
\rfloor}}$) of vertices (independent of size of $V$). Furthermore, we show that
the construction is optimal among all {\it restricted mimicking networks} -- a
natural class of mimicking networks that are obtained by clustering vertices
together. 2) There exists graphs with $k$ terminals that have no mimicking
network of size smaller than $2^{\frac{k-1}{2}}$.
  We also exhibit improved constructions of mimicking networks for trees and
graphs of bounded tree-width.