In biochemical networks, reactions often occur on disparate timescales and
can be characterized as either "fast" or "slow." The quasi-steady state
approximation (QSSA) utilizes timescale separation to project models of
biochemical networks onto lower-dimensional slow manifolds. As a result, fast
elementary reactions are not modeled explicitly, and their effect is captured
by non-elementary reaction rate functions (e.g. Hill functions). The accuracy
of the QSSA applied to deterministic systems depends on how well timescales are
separated. Recently, it has been proposed to use the non-elementary rate
functions obtained via the deterministic QSSA to define propensity functions in
stochastic simulations of biochemical networks. In this approach, termed the
stochastic QSSA, fast reactions that are part of non-elementary reactions are
not simulated, greatly reducing computation time. However, it is unclear when
the stochastic QSSA provides an accurate approximation of the original
stochastic simulation. We show that, unlike the deterministic QSSA, the
validity of the stochastic QSSA does not follow from timescale separation
alone, but also depends on the sensitivity of the non-elementary reaction rate
functions to changes in the slow species. The stochastic QSSA becomes more
accurate when this sensitivity is small. Different types of QSSAs result in
non-elementary functions with different sensitivities, and the total QSSA
results in less sensitive functions than the standard or the pre-factor QSSA.
We prove that, as a result, the stochastic QSSA becomes more accurate when
non-elementary reaction functions are obtained using the total QSSA. Our work
provides a novel condition for the validity of the QSSA in stochastic
simulations of biochemical reaction networks with disparate timescales.