We study the transport properties of passive inertial particles in a $2-d$
incompressible flows. Here the particle dynamics is represented by the $4-d$
dissipative embedding map of $2-d$ area-preserving standard map which models
the incompressible flow. The system is a model for impurity dynamics in a fluid
and is characterized by two parameters, the inertia parameter $\alpha$, and the
dissipation parameter $\gamma$. We obtain the statistical characterisers of
transport for this system in these dynamical regimes. These are, the recurrence
time statistics, the diffusion constant, and the distribution of jump lengths.
The recurrence time distribution shows a power law tail in the dynamical
regimes where there is preferential concentration of particles in sticky
regions of the phase space, and an exponential decay in mixing regimes. The
diffusion constant shows behaviour of three types - normal, subdiffusive and
superdiffusive, depending on the parameter regimes. Phase diagrams of the
system are constructed to differentiate different types of diffusion behaviour,
as well as the behaviour of the absolute drift. We correlate the dynamical
regimes seen for the system at different parameter values with the transport
properties observed at these regimes, and in the behaviour of the transients.
This system also shows the existence of a crisis and unstable dimension
variability at certain parameter values. The signature of the unstable
dimension variability is seen in the statistical characterisers of transport.
We discuss the implications of our results for realistic systems.