In the applications of solar magneto-seismology(SMS), employing the ratio of
the period of the fundamental mode to twice the one of its first overtone,
$P_1/2P_2$, plays an important role. We examine how field-aligned flows affect
the dispersion properties, and hence the period ratios, of standing modes
supported by magnetic slabs in the solar atmosphere. We numerically solve the
dispersion relations and devise a graphic means to construct standing modes.
For coronal slabs, we find that the flow effects are significant, for the fast
kink and sausage modes alike. For the kink ones, they may reduce $P_1/2P_2$ by
up to 23% compared with the static case, and the minimum allowed $P_1/2P_2$ can
fall below the lower limit analytically derived for static slabs. For the
sausage modes, while introducing the flow reduces $P_1/2P_2$ by typically
$\lesssim 5$ % relative to the static case, it significantly increases the
threshold aspect ratio only above which standing sausage modes can be
supported, meaning that their detectability is restricted to even wider slabs.
In the case of photospheric slabs, the flow effect is not as strong. However,
standing modes are distinct from the coronal case in that standing kink modes
show a $P_1/2P_2$ that deviates from unity even for a zero-width slab, while
standing sausage modes no longer suffer from a threshold aspect ratio. We
conclude that transverse structuring in plasma density and flow speed should be
considered in seismological applications of multiple periodicities to solar
atmospheric structures.