We study the synchronization of coupled maps on a variety of networks
including regular one and two dimensional networks, scale free networks, small
world networks, tree networks, and random networks. For small coupling
strengths nodes show turbulent behavior but form phase synchronized clusters as
coupling increases. We identify two different ways of cluster formation,
self-organized clusters which have mostly intra-cluster couplings and driven
clusters which have mostly inter-cluster couplings. The synchronized clusters
may be of dominant self-organized type, dominant driven type or mixed type
depending on the type of network and the parameters of the dynamics. There are
some nodes of the floating type that show intermittent behaviour between
getting attached to some clusters and evolving independently. The residence
times of a floating node in a synchronized cluster show an exponential
distribution. We define different states of the coupled dynamics by considering
the number and type of synchronized clusters. For the local dynamics governed
by the logistic map we study the phase diagram in the plane of the coupling
constant ($\epsilon$) and the logistic map parameter ($\mu$). For large
coupling strengths and nonlinear coupling we find that the scale free networks
and the Caley tree networks lead to better cluster formation than the other
types of networks with the same average connectivity. For most of our study we
use the number of connections of the order of the number of nodes which allows
us to distinguish between the two mechanisms of cluster formation. As the
number of connections increases the number of nodes forming clusters and the
size of the clusters in general increase.