Triggered by the explosion of mobile traffic, 5G (5th Generation) cellular
network requires evolution to increase the system rate 1000 times higher than
the current systems in 10 years. Motivated by this common problem, there are
several studies to integrate mm-wave access into current cellular networks as
multi-band heterogeneous networks to exploit the ultra-wideband aspect of the
mm-wave band. The contributors of this paper have proposed comprehensive
architecture of cellular networks with mm-wave access, where mm-wave small cell
basestations and a conventional macro basestation are connected to
Centralized-RAN (C-RAN) to effectively operate the system by enabling power
efficient seamless handover as well as centralized resource control including
dynamic cell structuring to match the limited coverage of mm-wave access with
high traffic user locations via user-plane/control-plane splitting. In this
paper, to prove the effectiveness of the proposed 5G cellular networks with
mm-wave access, system level simulation is conducted by introducing an expected
future traffic model, a measurement based mm-wave propagation model, and a
centralized cell association algorithm by exploiting the C-RAN architecture.
The numerical results show the effectiveness of the proposed network to realize
1000 times higher system rate than the current network in 10 years which is not
achieved by the small cells using commonly considered 3.5 GHz band.
Furthermore, the paper also gives latest status of mm-wave devices and
regulations to show the feasibility of using mm-wave in the 5G systems.