In recent years experiments have demonstrated that living cells can measure
low chemical concentrations with high precision, and much progress has been
made in understanding what sets the fundamental limit to the precision of
chemical sensing. Chemical concentration measurements start with the binding of
ligand molecules to receptor proteins, which is an inherently noisy process,
especially at low concentrations. The signaling networks that transmit the
information on the ligand concentration from the receptors into the cell have
to filter this noise extrinsic to the cell as much as possible. These networks,
however, are also stochastic in nature, which means that they will also add
noise to the transmitted signal. In this review, we will first discuss how the
diffusive transport and binding of ligand to the receptor sets the receptor
correlation time, and then how downstream signaling pathways integrate the
noise in the receptor state; we will discuss how the number of receptors, the
receptor correlation time, and the effective integration time together set a
fundamental limit on the precision of sensing. We then discuss how cells can
remove the receptor noise while simultaneously suppressing the intrinsic noise
in the signaling network. We describe why this mechanism of time integration
requires three classes of resources---receptors and their integration time,
readout molecules, energy---and how each resource class sets a fundamental
sensing limit. We also briefly discuss the scheme of maximum-likelihood
estimation, the role of receptor cooperativity, and how cellular copy protocols
differ from canonical copy protocols typically considered in the computational
literature, explaining why cellular sensing systems can never reach the
Landauer limit on the optimal trade-off between accuracy and energetic cost.