This paper reports on the first systematic study of congestion-aware routing
algorithms for wireless mesh networks to achieve an improved end-end delay
performance. In particular, we compare 802.11 compatible implementations of a
set of congestion-aware routing protocols against our implementation of state
of the art shortest path routing protocol (SRCR). We implement congestion-aware
routing algorithms Backpressure (BP), Enhanced-Backpressure (E-BP) adapted from
[1], [2] suitably adjusted for 802.11 implementation. We then propose and
implement Congestion Diversity Protocol (CDP) adapted from [3] recognizing the
limitations of BP and E-BP for 802.11-based wireless networks. SRCR solely
utilizes link qualities, while BP relies on queue differential to route
packets. CDP and E-BP rely on distance metrics which take into account queue
backlogs and link qualities in the network. E-BP computes its metric by summing
the ETX and queue differential, while CDP determines its metric by calculating
the least draining time to the destination. Our small testbed consisting of
twelve 802.11g nodes enables us to empirically compare the performance of
congestion-aware routing protocols (BP, E-BP and CDP) against benchmark SRCR.
For medium to high load UDP traffic, we observe that CDP exhibits significant
improvement with respect to both end-end delay and throughput over other
protocols with no loss of performance for TCP traffic. Backpressure-based
routing algorithms (BP and E-BP) show poorer performance for UDP and TCP
traffic. Finally, we carefully study the effects of the modular approach to
congestion-aware routing design in which the MAC layer is left intact