Let X=(x,y). Previously we have found all rational solutions of the
2-dimensional projective translation equation, or PrTE,
(1-z)f(X)=f(f(Xz)(1-z)/z); here f(X)=(u(x,y),v(x,y)) is a pair of two (real or
complex) functions. Solutions of this functional equation are called projective
flows. A vector field of a rational flow is a pair of 2-homogenic rational
functions. On the other hand, only special pairs of 2-homogenic rational
functions give rise to rational flows. In this paper we are interested in all
non-singular (satisfying the boundary condition) and unramified (without
branching points, i.e. single-valued functions in C^2\{union of curves})
projective flows whose vector field is still rational. We prove that, up to
conjugation with 1-homogenic birational plane transformation, these are of 6
types: 1) the identity flow; 2) one flow for each non-negative integer N -
these flows are rational of level N; 3) the level 1 exponential flow, which is
also conjugate to the level 1 tangent flow; 4) the level 3 flow expressable in
terms of Dixonian (equianharmonic) elliptic functions; 5) the level 4 flow
expressable in terms of lemniscatic elliptic functions; 6) the level 6 flow
expressable in terms of Dixonian elliptic functions again. This reveals another
aspect of the PrTE: in the latter four cases this equation is equivalent and
provides a uniform framework to addition formulas for exponential, tangent, or
special elliptic functions (also addition formulas for polynomials and the
logarithm, though the latter appears only in branched flows). Moreover, the
PrTE turns out to have a connection with Polya-Eggenberger urn models. Another
purpose of this study is expository, and we provide the list of open problems
and directions in the theory of PrTE; for example, we define the notion of
quasi-rational projective flows which includes curves of arbitrary genus.