Small cells have been proposed as a vehicle for wireless networks to keep up
with surging demand. Small cells come with a significant challenge of providing
backhaul to transport data to(from) a gateway node in the core network. Fiber
based backhaul offers the high rates needed to meet this requirement, but is
costly and time-consuming to deploy, when not readily available. Wireless
backhaul is an attractive option for small cells as it provides a less
expensive and easy-to-deploy alternative to fiber. However, there are multitude
of bands and features (e.g. LOS/NLOS, spatial multiplexing etc.) associated
with wireless backhaul that need to be used intelligently for small cells.
Candidate bands include: sub-6 GHz band that is useful in non-line-of-sight
(NLOS) scenarios, microwave band (6-42 GHz) that is useful in point-to-point
line-of-sight (LOS) scenarios, and millimeter wave bands (e.g. 60, 70 and 80
GHz) that are recently being commercially used in LOS scenarios. In many
deployment topologies, it is advantageous to use aggregator nodes, located at
the roof tops of tall buildings near small cells. These nodes can provide high
data rate to multiple small cells in NLOS paths, sustain the same data rate to
gateway nodes using LOS paths and take advantage of all available bands. This
work performs the joint cost optimal aggregator node placement, power
allocation, channel scheduling and routing to optimize the wireless backhaul
network. We formulate mixed integer nonlinear programs (MINLP) to capture the
different interference and multiplexing patterns at sub-6 GHz and microwave
band. We solve the MINLP through linear relaxation and branch-and-bound
algorithm and apply our algorithm in an example wireless backhaul network of
downtown Manhattan.