Botnets are considered one of the most dangerous and serious security threats
facing the networks and the Internet. Comparing with the other security
threats, botnet members have the ability to be directed and controlled via C&C
messages from the botmaster over common protocols such as IRC and HTTP, or even
over covert and unknown applications. As for IRC botnets, general security
instances like firewalls and IDSes do not provide by themselves a viable
solution to prevent them completely. These devices could not differentiate well
between the legitimate and malicious traffic of the IRC protocol. So, this
paper is proposing an IDS-based and multi-phase IRC botnet and botnet behavior
detection model based on C&C responses messages and malicious behaviors of the
IRC bots inside the network environment. The proposed model has been evaluated
on five network traffic traces from two different network environments (Virtual
network and DARPA 2000 Windows NT Attack Data Set). The results show that the
proposed model could detect all the infected IRC botnet member(s), state their
current status of attack, filter their malicious IRC messages, pass the other
normal IRC messages and detect the botnet behavior regardless of the botnet
communication protocol with very low false positive rate. The proposed model
has been compared with some of the existing and well-known approaches,
including BotHunter, BotSniffer and Rishi regarding botnet characteristics
taken in each approach. The comparison showed that the proposed model has made
a progress on the comparative models by not to rely on a certain time window or
specific bot signatures.