This paper presents an analysis of the local peculiar velocity field based on
the Wiener Filter reconstruction method. We used our currently available
catalog of distance measurements containing 1,797 galaxies within 3000 km/s:
Cosmicflows-1. The Wiener Filter method is used to recover the full 3D peculiar
velocity field from the observed map of radial velocities and to recover the
underlying linear density field. The velocity field within a data zone of 3000
km/s is decomposed into a local component that is generated within the data
zone and a tidal one that is generated by the mass distribution outside that
zone. The tidal component is characterized by a coherent flow toward the
Norma-Hydra-Centaurus (Great Attractor) region while the local component is
dominated by a flow toward the Virgo Cluster and away from the Local Void. A
detailed analysis shows that the local flow is predominantly governed by the
Local Void and the Virgo Cluster plays a lesser role. The analysis procedure
was tested against a mock catalog. It is demonstrated that the Wiener Filter
accurately recovers the input velocity field of the mock catalog on the scale
of the extraction of distances and reasonably recovers the velocity field on
significantly larger scales. The Bayesian Wiener Filter reconstruction is
carried out within the ?CDM WMAP5 framework. The Wiener Filter reconstruction
draws particular attention to the importance of voids in proximity to our
neighborhood. The prominent structure of the Local Supercluster is wrapped in a
horseshoe collar of under density with the Local Void as a major component.