Biased random walks on complex networks are a particular type of walks whose
motion is biased on properties of the destination node, such as its degree. In
recent years they have been exploited to design efficient strategies to explore
a network, for instance by constructing maximally mixing trajectories or by
sampling homogeneously the nodes. In multiplex networks, the nodes are related
through different types of links (layers or communication channels), and the
presence of connections at different layers multiplies the number of possible
paths in the graph. In this work we introduce biased random walks on multiplex
networks and provide analytical solutions for their long-term properties such
as the stationary distribution and the entropy rate. We focus on degree-biased
walks and distinguish between two subclasses of random walks: extensive biased
walks consider the properties of each node separately at each layer, intensive
biased walks deal instead with intrinsically multiplex variables. We study the
effect of different structural properties, including the number of layers, the
presence and sign of inter-layer degree correlations, and the redundancy of
edges across layers, on the steady-state behaviour of the walkers, and we
investigate how to design an efficient exploration of the system. Finally, we
apply our results to the case of a multidimensional social network and to a
multimodal transportation system, showing how an appropriate tuning of the bias
parameters towards nodes which are truly multiplex allows to obtain a good
trade-off between a maximal entropy rate and a homogeneous sampling of the
nodes of the network.