We have conducted ALMA observations in the 1.3 mm continuum and 12CO (2-1),
C18O (2-1) and SO (5_6-4_5) lines toward L1489 IRS, a Class I protostar
surrounded by a Keplerian disk and an infalling envelope. The Keplerian disk is
clearly identified in the 12CO and C18O emission, and its outer radius (~700
AU) and mass (~0.005 Msun) are comparable to those of disks around T Tauri
stars. The protostellar mass is estimated to be 1.6 Msun with the inclination
angle of 66 deg. In addition to the Keplerian disk, there are blueshifted and
redshifted off-axis protrusions seen in the C18O emission pointing toward the
north and the south, respectively, adjunct to the middle part of the Keplerian
disk. The shape and kinematics of these protrusions can be interpreted as
streams of infalling flows with a conserved angular momentum following
parabolic trajectories toward the Keplerian disk, and the mass infalling rate
is estimated to be ~5E-7 Msun/yr. The specific angular momentum of the
infalling flows (~2.5E-3 km/s*pc) is comparable to that at the outer radius of
the Keplerian disk (~4.8E-3 km/s*pc). The SO emission is elongated along the
disk major axis and exhibits a linear velocity gradient along the axis, which
is interpreted as that the SO emission primarily traces a ring region in the
flared Keplerian disk at radii of ~250-390 AU. The local enhancement of the SO
abundance in the ring region can be due to the accretion shocks at the
centrifugal radius where the infalling flows fall onto the disk. Our ALMA
observations unveiled both the Keplerian disk and the infalling gas onto the
disk, and the disk can further grow by accreting material and angular momenta
from the infalling gas.