The annihilation of neutralino dark matter in the Galactic Center (GC) may
result in radio signals that can be used to detect or constrain the dark matter
halo density profile or dark matter particle properties. At the Galactic
Center, the accretion flow onto the central Black Hole (BH) sustains strong
magnetic fields that can induce synchrotron emission by electrons and positrons
generated in neutralino annihilations during advection onto the BH. Here we
reanalyze the radiative processes relevant for the neutralino annihilation
signal at the GC, with realistic assumptions about the accretion flow and its
magnetic properties. We find that neglecting these effects, as done in previous
papers, leads to the incorrent electron and photon spectra. We find that the
magnetic fields associated with the flow are significantly stronger than
previously estimated. We derive the appropriate equilibrium distribution of
electrons and positron and the resulting radiation, considering adiabatic
compression in the accretion flow, inverse Compton scattering off synchrotron
photons (synchrotron self-Compton scattering), and synchrotron self-absorption
of the emitted radiation. We derive the signal for a Navarro-Frenk-White (NFW)
dark matter halo profile and a NFW profile with a dark matter spike due to the
central BH. We find that the observed radio emission from the GC is
inconsistent with the scenario in which a spiky distribution of neutralinos is
present. We discuss several important differences between our calculations and
those previously presented in the literature.