We study how the matter dispersed when a supermassive black hole tidally
disrupts a star joins an accretion flow. Combining a relativistic hydrodynamic
simulation of the stellar disruption with a relativistic hydrodynamics
simulation of the tidal debris motion, we track such a system until ~80% of the
stellar mass bound to the black hole has settled into an accretion flow. Shocks
near the stellar pericenter and also near the apocenter of the most
tightly-bound debris dissipate orbital energy, but only enough to make the
characteristic radius comparable to the semi-major axis of the most-bound
material, not the tidal radius as previously thought. The outer shocks are
caused by post-Newtonian effects, both on the stellar orbit during its
disruption and on the tidal forces. Accumulation of mass into the accretion
flow is non-monotonic and slow, requiring ~3--10x the orbital period of the
most tightly-bound tidal streams, while the inflow time for most of the mass
may be comparable to or longer than the mass accumulation time. Deflection by
shocks does, however, remove enough angular momentum and energy from some mass
for it to move inward even before most of the mass is accumulated into the
accretion flow. Although the accretion rate rises sharply and then decays
roughly as a power-law, its maximum is ~0.1x the previous expectation, and the
duration of the peak is ~5x longer than previously predicted. The geometric
mean of the black hole mass and stellar mass inferred from a measured event
timescale is therefore ~0.2x the value given by classical theory.