Bubbly turbulent Taylor-Couette (TC) flow is globally and locally studied at
Reynolds numbers of Re = 5 x 10^5 to 2 x 10^6 with a stationary outer cylinder
and a mean bubble diameter around 1 mm. We measure the drag reduction (DR)
based on the global dimensional torque as a function of the global gas volume
fraction a_global over the range 0% to 4%. We observe a moderate DR of up to 7%
for Re = 5.1 x 10^5. Significantly stronger DR is achieved for Re = 1.0 x 10^6
and 2.0 x 10^6 with, remarkably, more than 40% of DR at Re = 2.0 x 10^6 and
a_global = 4%.
  To shed light on the two apparently different regimes of moderate DR and
strong DR, we investigate the local liquid flow velocity and the local bubble
statistics, in particular the radial gas concentration profiles and the bubble
size distribution, for the two different cases; Re = 5.1 x 10^5 in the moderate
DR regime and Re = 1.0 x 10^6 in the strong DR regime, both at a_global = 3 +/-
0.5%.
  By defining and measuring a local bubble Weber number (We) in the TC gap
close to the IC wall, we observe that the crossover from the moderate to the
strong DR regime occurs roughly at the crossover of We ~ 1. In the strong DR
regime at Re = 1.0 x 10^6 we find We > 1, reaching a value of 9 (+7, -2) when
approaching the inner wall, indicating that the bubbles increasingly deform as
they draw near the inner wall. In the moderate DR regime at Re = 5.1 x 10^5 we
find We ~ 1, indicating more rigid bubbles, even though the mean bubble
diameter is larger, namely 1.2 (+0.7, -0.1) mm, as compared to the Re = 1.0 x
10^6 case, where it is 0.9 (+0.6, -0.1) mm. We conclude that bubble
deformability is a relevant mechanism behind the observed strong DR. These
local results match and extend the conclusions from the global flow experiments
as found by van den Berg et al. (2005) and from the numerical simulations by
Lu, Fernandez & Tryggvason (2005).