Mackey showed that for a compact Lie group $K$, the pair $(K,C^{0}(K))$ has a
unique non-trivial irreducible covariant pair of representations. We study the
relevance of this result to the unitary equivalence of quantizations for an
infinite-dimensional family of $K\times K$ invariant polarizations on
$T^{\ast}K$. The K\"{a}hler polarizations in the family are generated by
(complex) time-$\tau$ Hamiltonian flows applied to the (Schr\"{o}dinger)
vertical real polarization. The unitary equivalence of the corresponding
quantizations of $T^{\ast}K$ is then studied by considering covariant pairs of
representations of $K$ defined by geometric prequantization and of
representations of $C^0(K)$ defined via Heisenberg time-$(-\tau)$ evolution
followed by time-$(+\tau)$ geometric-quantization-induced evolution. We show
that in the semiclassical and large imaginary time limits, the unitary
transform whose existence is guaranteed by Mackey's theorem can be approximated
by composition of the time-$(+\tau)$ geometric-quantization-induced evolution
with the time-$(-\tau)$ evolution associated with the momentum space [W. D.
Kirwin and S. Wu, Momentum space for compact Lie groups and the Peter-Weyl
theorem, to appear] quantization of the Hamiltonian function generating the
flow. In the case of quadratic Hamiltonians, this asymptotic result is exact
and unitary equivalence between quantizations is achieved by identifying the
Heisenberg imaginary time evolution with heat operator evolution, in accordance
with the coherent state transform of Hall.