Reverse-phase protein array (RPPA) analysis is a powerful, relatively new
platform that allows for high-throughput, quantitative analysis of protein
networks. One of the challenges that currently limit the potential of this
technology is the lack of methods that allow for accurate data modeling and
identification of related networks and samples. Such models may improve the
accuracy of biological sample classification based on patterns of protein
network activation and provide insight into the distinct biological
relationships underlying different types of cancer. Motivated by RPPA data, we
propose a Bayesian sparse graphical modeling approach that uses selection
priors on the conditional relationships in the presence of class information.
The novelty of our Bayesian model lies in the ability to draw information from
the network data as well as from the associated categorical outcome in a
unified hierarchical model for classification. In addition, our method allows
for intuitive integration of a priori network information directly in the model
and allows for posterior inference on the network topologies both within and
between classes. Applying our methodology to an RPPA data set generated from
panels of human breast cancer and ovarian cancer cell lines, we demonstrate
that the model is able to distinguish the different cancer cell types more
accurately than several existing models and to identify differential regulation
of components of a critical signaling network (the PI3K-AKT pathway) between
these two types of cancer. This approach represents a powerful new tool that
can be used to improve our understanding of protein networks in cancer.