Weak-wave turbulence theory for rapidly rotating flows is developed in this
paper. The governing equations are an asymptotically reduced set of equations
that are derived from the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. These
equations are applicable for rapidly rotating flow regimes and are best suited
to describe anisotropic dynamics of rotating flows. The independent variables
of these equations inherently reside in a helical wave basis that is the most
suitable basis for inertial waves. A coupled system of equations for the two
global invariants: \textit{energy} and \textit{helicity}, is derived by
extending a simpler symmetrical system to the more general non-symmetrical
helical case. This approach of deriving the kinetic equations for helicity
follows naturally by exploiting the symmetries in the system and is different
from the derivations presented in earlier work of \citet{Galtier03, Galtier14}
that uses multiple correlation functions to account for the asymmetry due to
helicity. Stationary solutions, including Kolmogorov solutions, for the flow
invariants are obtained as a scaling law of the anisotropic wave numbers. The
scaling law solutions compare affirmatively with results from recent
experimental and simulation data. The theory developed in this paper pertains
to the wave dynamics supported by an asymptotically reduced set of hydrodynamic
equations and therefore encompasses a different dynamical regime compared to
the weak turbulence theory presented in the work of \citet{Galtier03,
Galtier14}.