Flat radio spectra with large brightness temperatures at the core of AGN and
X-ray binaries are usually interpreted as the partially self-absorbed bases of
jet flows emitting synchrotron radiation. Here we extend previous models of
jets propagating at large angles to our line of sight to self-consistently
include the effects of energy losses of the relativistic electrons due to the
synchrotron process itself and the adiabatic expansion of the jet flow. We also
take into account energy gains through self-absorption. Two model classes are
presented. The ballistic jet flows, with the jet material travelling along
straight trajectories, and adiabatic jets. Despite the energy losses, both
scenarios can result in flat emission spectra, however, the adiabatic jets
require a specific geometry. No re-acceleration process along the jet is needed
for the electrons. We apply the models to observational data of the X-ray
binary Cygnus X-1. Both models can be made consistent with the observations.
The resulting ballistic jet is extremely narrow with a jet opening angle of
only 5". Its energy transport rate is small compared to the time-averaged jet
power and therefore suggests the presence of non-radiating protons in the jet
flow. The adiabatic jets require a strong departure from energy equipartition
between the magnetic field and the relativistic electrons. These models also
imply a jet power two orders of magnitude higher than the Eddington limiting
luminosity of a 10 solar mass black hole. The models put strong constraints on
the physical conditions in the jet flows on scales well below achievable
resolution limits.