We investigate the evolution of 5 granular-scale magnetic flux cancellations
just outside the moat region of a sunspot by using accurate spectropolarimetric
measurements and G-band images with the Solar Optical Telescope aboard Hinode.
The opposite polarity magnetic elements approach a junction of the
intergranular lanes and then they collide with each other there. The
intergranular junction has strong red shifts, darker intensities than the
regular intergranular lanes, and surface converging flows. This clearly
confirms that the converging and downward convective motions are essential for
the approaching process of the opposite-polarity magnetic elements. However,
motion of the approaching magnetic elements does not always match with their
surrounding surface flow patterns in our observations. This suggests that, in
addition to the surface flows, subsurface downward convective motions and
subsurface magnetic connectivities are important for understanding the approach
and collision of the opposite polarity elements observed in the photosphere. We
find that the horizontal magnetic field appears between the canceling opposite
polarity elements in only one event. The horizontal fields are observed along
the intergranular lanes with Doppler red shifts. This cancellation is most
probably a result of the submergence (retraction) of low-lying photospheric
magnetic flux. In the other 4 events, the horizontal field is not observed
between the opposite polarity elements at any time when they approach and
cancel each other. These approaching magnetic elements are more concentrated
rather than gradually diffused, and they have nearly vertical fields even while
they are in contact each other. We thus infer that the actual flux cancellation
is highly time dependent events at scales less than a pixel of Hinode SOT
(about 200 km) near the solar surface.