A moving frame formulation of non-stretching geometric curve flows in
Euclidean space is used to derive a 1+1 dimensional hierarchy of integrable
SO(3)-invariant vector models containing the Heisenberg ferromagnetic spin
model as well as a model given by a spin-vector version of the mKdV equation.
These models describe a geometric realization of the NLS hierarchy of soliton
equations whose bi-Hamiltonian structure is shown to be encoded in the Frenet
equations of the moving frame. This derivation yields an explicit
bi-Hamiltonian structure, recursion operator, and constants of motion for each
model in the hierarchy. A generalization of these results to geometric surface
flows is presented, where the surfaces are non-stretching in one direction
while stretching in all transverse directions. Through the Frenet equations of
a moving frame, such surface flows are shown to encode a hierarchy of 2+1
dimensional integrable SO(3)-invariant vector models, along with their
bi-Hamiltonian structure, recursion operator, and constants of motion,
describing a geometric realization of 2+1 dimensional bi-Hamiltonian NLS and
mKdV soliton equations. Based on the well-known equivalence between the
Heisenberg model and the Schrodinger map equation in 1+1 dimensions, a
geometrical formulation of these hierarchies of 1+1 and 2+1 vector models is
given in terms of dynamical maps into the 2-sphere. In particular, this
formulation yields a new integrable generalization of the Schrodinger map
equation in 2+1 dimensions as well as a mKdV analog of this map equation
corresponding to the mKdV spin model in 1+1 and 2+1 dimensions.