Background Semantic Web Technology (SWT) makes it possible to integrate and
search the large volume of life science datasets in the public domain, as
demonstrated by well-known linked data projects such as LODD, Bio2RDF, and
Chem2Bio2RDF. Integration of these sets creates large networks of information.
We have previously described a tool called WENDI for aggregating information
pertaining to new chemical compounds, effectively creating evidence paths
relating the compounds to genes, diseases and so on. In this paper we examine
the utility of automatically inferring new compound-disease associations (and
thus new links in the network) based on semantically marked-up versions of
these evidence paths, rule-sets and inference engines.
  Results Through the implementation of a semantic inference algorithm, rule
set, Semantic Web methods (RDF, OWL and SPARQL) and new interfaces, we have
created a new tool called Chemogenomic Explorer that uses networks of
ontologically annotated RDF statements along with deductive reasoning tools to
infer new associations between the query structure and genes and diseases from
WENDI results. The tool then permits interactive clustering and filtering of
these evidence paths.
  Conclusions We present a new aggregate approach to inferring links between
chemical compounds and diseases using semantic inference. This approach allows
multiple evidence paths between compounds and diseases to be identified using a
rule-set and semantically annotated data, and for these evidence paths to be
clustered to show overall evidence linking the compound to a disease. We
believe this is a powerful approach, because it allows compound-disease
relationships to be ranked by the amount of evidence supporting them.