Our objective is to find the five best college sports coaches of past century
for three different sports. We decided to look at men's basketball, football,
and baseball. We wanted to use an approach that could definitively determine
team skill from the games played, and then use a machine-learning algorithm to
calculate the correct coach skills for each team in a given year. We created a
networks-based model to calculate team skill from historical game data. A
digraph was created for each year in each sport. Nodes represented teams, and
edges represented a game played between two teams. The arrowhead pointed
towards the losing team. We calculated the team skill of each graph using a
right-hand eigenvector centrality measure. This way, teams that beat good teams
will be ranked higher than teams that beat mediocre teams. The eigenvector
centrality rankings for most years were well correlated with tournament
performance and poll-based rankings. We assumed that the relationship between
coach skill $C_s$, player skill $P_s$, and team skill $T_s$ was $C_s \cdot P_s
= T_s$. We then created a function to describe the probability that a given
score difference would occur based on player skill and coach skill. We
multiplied the probabilities of all edges in the network together to find the
probability that the correct network would occur with any given player skill
and coach skill matrix. We was able to determine player skill as a function of
team skill and coach skill, eliminating the need to optimize two unknown
matrices. The top five coaches in each year were noted, and the top coach of
all time was calculated by dividing the number of times that coach ranked in
the yearly top five by the years said coach had been active.