Numerical and physical experiments on two-dimensional (2d) turbulence show
that the differences of transverse components of velocity field are well
described by a gaussian statistics and Kolmogorov scaling exponents. In this
case the dissipation fluctuations are irrelevant in the limit of small
viscosity. In general, one can assume existence of critical
space-dimensionality $d=d_{c}$, at which the energy flux and all odd-order
moments of velocity difference change sign and the dissipation fluctuations
become dynamically unimportant. At $d<d_{c}$ the flow can be described by the
``mean-field theory'', leading to the observed gaussian statistics and
Kolmogorov scaling of transverse velocity differences. It is shown that in the
vicinity of $d=d_{c}$ the ratio of the relaxation and translation
characteristic times decreases to zero, thus giving rise to a small parameter
of the theory. The expressions for pressure and dissipation contributions to
the exact equation for the generating function of transverse velocity
differences are derived in the vicinity of $d=d_{c}$. The resulting equation
describes experimental data on two-dimensional turbulence and demonstrate onset
of intermittency as $d-d_{c}>0$ and $r/L\to 0$ in three-dimensional flows in
close agreement with experimental data. In addition, some new exact relations
between correlation functions of velocity differences are derived. It is also
predicted that the single-point pdf of transverse velocity difference in
developing as well as in the large-scale stabilized two-dimensional turbulence
is a gaussian.