We investigate the condensation phase transitions of conserved-mass
aggregation (CA) model on weighted scale-free networks (WSFNs). In WSFNs, the
weight $w_{ij}$ is assigned to the link between the nodes $i$ and $j$. We
consider the symmetric weight given as $w_{ij}=(k_i k_j)^\alpha$. In CA model,
the mass $m_i$ on the randomly chosen node $i$ diffuses to a linked neighbor of
$i$,$j$, with the rate $T_{ji}$ or an unit mass chips off from the node $i$ to
$j$ with the rate $\omega T_{ji}$. The hopping probability $T_{ji}$ is given as
$T_{ji}= w_{ji}/\sum_{<l>} w_{li}$, where the sum runs over the linked
neighbors of the node $i$. On the WSFNs, we numerically show that a certain
critical $\alpha_c$ exists below which CA model undergoes the same type of the
condensation transitions as those of CA model on regular lattices. However for
$\alpha \geq \alpha_c$, the condensation always occurs for any density $\rho$
and $\omega$. We analytically find $\alpha_c = (\gamma-3)/2$ on the WSFN with
the degree exponent $\gamma$. To obtain $\alpha_c$, we analytically derive the
scaling behavior of the stationary distribution $P^{\infty}_k$ of finding a
walker at nodes with degree $k$, and the probability $D(k)$ of finding two
walkers simultaneously at the same node with degree $k$. We find $P^{\infty}_k
\sim k^{\alpha+1-\gamma}$ and $D(k) \sim k^{2(\alpha+1)-\gamma}$ respectively.
With $P^{\infty}_k$, we also show analytically and numerically that the average
mass $m(k)$ on a node with degree $k$ scales as $k^{\alpha+1}$ without any
jumps at the maximal degree of the network for any $\rho$ as in the SFNs with
$\alpha=0$.