The transitional boundary layer flow over a flat plate is investigated. The
boundary layer flow is known to develop unstable Tollmien-Schlichting waves
above a critical value of the Reynolds number. However, it is also known that
this transition can be observed for sub-critical Reynolds numbers. In that
case, the basin of attraction of the laminar state coexists with the sustained
turbulence. In this article, the trajectory on the separatrix between these two
states is simulated. The state on the separatrix is independent from the
initial condition and is dynamically connected to both the laminar flow and the
turbulence. Such an edge state provides information regarding the basic
features of the transitional flow. The solution takes the form of a low speed
streak, flanked by two quasi-streamwise sinuous vortices. The shape of the
streaks is close to that simulated with the linear optimal perturbation method.
This solution is compared to existing results concerning streak breakdown. The
simulations are realized in a temporal framework for a local boundary layer,
with periodic boundary conditions in the streamwise direction. A dedicated
model, based on a scale separation, is presented. The mean flow is a solution
of the Prandtl boundary layer equations while the superposed small-scale
fluctuations are a solution of the periodic Navier-Stokes equations. The model
is validated with turbulent flow simulations and satisfactorily reproduces the
physical characteristics of a boundary layer flow, especially in the outer
region, where external fluid is entrained toward the boundary layer.