We present a novel graphical framework for modeling non-negative sequential
data with hierarchical structure. Our model corresponds to a network of coupled
non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) modules, which we refer to as a
positive factor network (PFN). The data model is linear, subject to
non-negativity constraints, so that observation data consisting of an additive
combination of individually representable observations is also representable by
the network. This is a desirable property for modeling problems in
computational auditory scene analysis, since distinct sound sources in the
environment are often well-modeled as combining additively in the corresponding
magnitude spectrogram. We propose inference and learning algorithms that
leverage existing NMF algorithms and that are straightforward to implement. We
present a target tracking example and provide results for synthetic observation
data which serve to illustrate the interesting properties of PFNs and motivate
their potential usefulness in applications such as music transcription, source
separation, and speech recognition. We show how a target process characterized
by a hierarchical state transition model can be represented as a PFN. Our
results illustrate that a PFN which is defined in terms of a single target
observation can then be used to effectively track the states of multiple
simultaneous targets. Our results show that the quality of the inferred target
states degrades gradually as the observation noise is increased. We also
present results for an example in which meaningful hierarchical features are
extracted from a spectrogram. Such a hierarchical representation could be
useful for music transcription and source separation applications. We also
propose a network for language modeling.