For most people, social contacts play an integral part in finding a new job.
As observed by Granovetter's seminal study, the proportion of jobs obtained
through social contacts is usually large compared to those obtained through
postings or agencies. At the same time, job markets are a natural example of
two-sided matching markets. An important solution concept in such markets is
that of stable matchings, and the use of the celebrated Gale-Shapley algorithm
to compute them. So far, the literature has evolved separately, either focusing
on the implications of information flowing through a social network, or on
developing a mathematical theory of job markets through the use of two-sided
matching techniques.
  In this paper we provide a model of the job market that brings both aspects
of job markets together. To model the social scientists' observations, we
assume that workers learn only about positions in firms through social
contacts. Given that information structure, we study both static properties of
what we call locally stable matchings (i.e., stable matchings subject to
informational constraints given by a social network) and dynamic properties
through a reinterpretation of Gale-Shapley's algorithm as myopic best response
dynamics.
  We prove that, in general, the set of locally stable matching strictly
contains that of stable matchings and it is in fact NP-complete to determine if
they are identical. We also show that the lattice structure of stable matchings
is in general absent. Finally, we focus on myopic best response dynamics
inspired by the Gale-Shapley algorithm. We study the efficiency loss due to the
informational constraints, providing both lower and upper bounds.