We study a general class of bicriteria network design problems. A generic
problem in this class is as follows: Given an undirected graph and two
minimization objectives (under different cost functions), with a budget
specified on the first, find a <subgraph \from a given subgraph-class that
minimizes the second objective subject to the budget on the first. We consider
three different criteria - the total edge cost, the diameter and the maximum
degree of the network. Here, we present the first polynomial-time approximation
algorithms for a large class of bicriteria network design problems for the
above mentioned criteria. The following general types of results are presented.
  First, we develop a framework for bicriteria problems and their
approximations. Second, when the two criteria are the same %(note that the cost
functions continue to be different) we present a ``black box'' parametric
search technique. This black box takes in as input an (approximation) algorithm
for the unicriterion situation and generates an approximation algorithm for the
bicriteria case with only a constant factor loss in the performance guarantee.
Third, when the two criteria are the diameter and the total edge costs we use a
cluster-based approach to devise a approximation algorithms --- the solutions
output violate both the criteria by a logarithmic factor. Finally, for the
class of treewidth-bounded graphs, we provide pseudopolynomial-time algorithms
for a number of bicriteria problems using dynamic programming. We show how
these pseudopolynomial-time algorithms can be converted to fully
polynomial-time approximation schemes using a scaling technique.