Wireless network scheduling and control techniques (e.g., opportunistic
scheduling) rely heavily on access to Channel State Information (CSI). However,
obtaining this information is costly in terms of bandwidth, time, and power,
and could result in large overhead. Therefore, a critical question is how to
optimally manage network resources in the absence of such information. To that
end, we develop a cross-layer solution for downlink cellular systems with
imperfect (and possibly no) CSI at the transmitter. We use rateless codes to
resolve channel uncertainty. To keep the decoding complexity low, we explicitly
incorporate time-average block-size constraints, and aim to maximize the system
utility. The block-size of a rateless code is determined by both the network
control decisions and the unknown CSI of many time slots. Therefore, unlike
standard utility maximization problems, this problem can be viewed as a
constrained partial observed Markov decision problem (CPOMDP), which is known
to be hard due to the "curse of dimensionality." However, by using a modified
Lyapunov drift method, we develop a dynamic network control scheme, which
yields a total network utility within O(1/Lav) of utility-optimal point
achieved by infinite block-size channel codes, where Lav is the enforced value
of the time-average block-size of rateless codes. This opens the door of being
able to trade complexity/delay for performance gains in the absence of accurate
CSI. Our simulation results show that the proposed scheme improves the network
throughput by up to 68% over schemes that use fixed-rate codes.