Big data research is currently split on whether and to what extent Twitter
can be characterised as an informational or social network. We contribute to
this line of inquiry through an investigation of digital humanities scholars'
uses and gratifications of Twitter. We conducted a thematic analysis of 25
semistructured interview transcripts to learn about these scholars'
professional use of Twitter. Our findings show that Twitter is considered a
critical tool for informal communication within DH invisible colleges,
functioning at varying levels as both an informational network (learning to
'Twitter' and maintaining awareness) and a social network (imagining audiences
and engaging other digital humanists). We find that Twitter follow
relationships reflect common academic interests and are closely tied to
scholars' preexisting social ties and conference or event co-attendance. The
concept of the invisible college continues to be relevant but requires
revisiting. The invisible college formed on Twitter is messy, consisting of
overlapping social contexts (professional, personal, and public), scholars with
different habits of engagement, and both formal and informal ties. Our research
illustrates the value of using multiple methods to explore the complex
questions arising from big data studies and points toward future research that
could implement big data techniques on a small scale, focusing on sub-topics or
emerging fields, to expose the nature of scholars' invisible colleges made
visible on Twitter.