Network analysis became a powerful tool in recent years. Heat shock is a
well-characterized model of cellular dynamics. S. cerevisiae is an appropriate
model organism, since both its protein-protein interaction network
(interactome) and stress response at the gene expression level have been well
characterized. However, the analysis of the reorganization of the yeast
interactome during stress has not been investigated yet. We calculated the
changes of the interaction-weights of the yeast interactome from the changes of
mRNA expression levels upon heat shock. The major finding of our study is that
heat shock induced a significant decrease in both the overlaps and connections
of yeast interactome modules. In agreement with this the weighted diameter of
the yeast interactome had a 4.9-fold increase in heat shock. Several key
proteins of the heat shock response became centers of heat shock-induced local
communities, as well as bridges providing a residual connection of modules
after heat shock. The observed changes resemble to a "stratus-cumulus" type
transition of the interactome structure, since the unstressed yeast interactome
had a globally connected organization, similar to that of stratus clouds,
whereas the heat shocked interactome had a multifocal organization, similar to
that of cumulus clouds. Our results showed that heat shock induces a partial
disintegration of the global organization of the yeast interactome. This change
may be rather general occurring in many types of stresses. Moreover, other
complex systems, such as single proteins, social networks and ecosystems may
also decrease their inter-modular links, thus develop more compact modules, and
display a partial disintegration of their global structure in the initial phase
of crisis. Thus, our work may provide a model of a general, system-level
adaptation mechanism to environmental changes.