Network interdiction can be viewed as a game between two players, an
"interdictor" and a "flow player". The flow player wishes to send as much
material as possible through a network, while the interdictor attempts to
minimize the amount of transported material by removing a certain number of
arcs, say $\Gamma$ arcs. We introduce the randomized network interdiction
problem that allows the interdictor to use randomness to select arcs to be
removed. We model the problem in two different ways: arc-based and path-based
formulations, depending on whether flows are defined on arcs or paths,
respectively. We present insights into the modeling power, complexity, and
approximability of both formulations. In particular, we prove that
$Z_{\text{NI}}/Z_{\text{RNI}}\leq \Gamma+1$,
$Z_{\text{NI}}/Z_{\text{RNI}}^{\text{Path}}\leq \Gamma+1$,
$Z_{\text{RNI}}/Z_{\text{RNI}}^{\text{Path}}\leq \Gamma$, where
$Z_{\text{NI}}$, $Z_{\text{RNI}}$, and $Z_{\text{RNI}}^{\text{Path}}$ are the
optimal values of the network interdiction problem and its randomized versions
in arc-based and path-based formulations, respectively. We also show that these
bounds are tight. We show that it is NP-hard to compute the values
$Z_{\text{RNI}}$ and $Z_{\text{RNI}}^{\text{Path}}$ for a general $\Gamma$, but
they are computable in polynomial time when $\Gamma=1$. Further, we provide a
$(\Gamma+1)$-approximation for $Z_{\text{NI}}$, a $\Gamma$-approximation for
$Z_{\text{RNI}}$, and a $\big(1+\lfloor \Gamma/2\rfloor \cdot \lceil
\Gamma/2\rceil/(\Gamma+1)\big)$-approximation for
$Z_{\text{RNI}}^{\text{Path}}$.