Systemic properties of living cells are the result of molecular dynamics
governed by so-called genetic regulatory networks (GRN). These networks capture
all possible features of cells and are responsible for the immense levels of
adaptation characteristic to living systems. At any point in time only small
subsets of these networks are active. Any active subset of the GRN leads to the
expression of particular sets of molecules (expression modes). The subsets of
active networks change over time, leading to the observed complex dynamics of
expression patterns. Understanding of this dynamics becomes increasingly
important in systems biology and medicine. While the importance of
transcription rates and catalytic interactions has been widely recognized in
modeling genetic regulatory systems, the understanding of the role of
degradation of biochemical agents (mRNA, protein) in regulatory dynamics
remains limited. Recent experimental data suggests that there exists a
functional relation between mRNA and protein decay rates and expression modes.
In this paper we propose a model for the dynamics of successions of sequences
of active subnetworks of the GRN. The model is able to reproduce key
characteristics of molecular dynamics, including homeostasis, multi-stability,
periodic dynamics, alternating activity, differentiability, and self-organized
critical dynamics. Moreover the model allows to naturally understand the
mechanism behind the relation between decay rates and expression modes. The
model explains recent experimental observations that decay-rates (or turnovers)
vary between differentiated tissue-classes at a general systemic level and
highlights the role of intracellular decay rate control mechanisms in cell
differentiation.