We compute the Functional Renormalization Group (FRG) disorder- correlator
function R(v) for d-dimensional elastic manifolds pinned by a random potential
in the limit of infinite embedding space dimension N. It measures the
equilibrium response of the manifold in a quadratic potential well as the
center of the well is varied from 0 to v. We find two distinct scaling regimes:
(i) a "single shock" regime, v^2 ~ 1/L^d where L^d is the system volume and
(ii) a "thermodynamic" regime, v^2 ~ N. In regime (i) all the equivalent
replica symmetry breaking (RSB) saddle points within the Gaussian variational
approximation contribute, while in regime (ii) the effect of RSB enters only
through a single anomaly. When the RSB is continuous (e.g., for short-range
disorder, in dimension 2 <= d <= 4), we prove that regime (ii) yields the
large-N FRG function obtained previously. In that case, the disorder correlator
exhibits a cusp in both regimes, though with different amplitudes and of
different physical origin. When the RSB solution is 1-step and non- marginal
(e.g., d < 2 for SR disorder), the correlator R(v) in regime (ii) is
considerably reduced, and exhibits no cusp. Solutions of the FRG flow
corresponding to non-equilibrium states are discussed as well. In all cases the
regime (i) exhibits a cusp non-analyticity at T=0, whose form and thermal
rounding at finite T is obtained exactly and interpreted in terms of shocks.
The results are compared with previous work, and consequences for manifolds at
finite N, as well as extensions to spin glasses and related models are
discussed.