The null geodesics of a Schwarzschild black hole are studied from a dynamical
systems perspective. Written in terms of Kerr-Schild coordinates, the null
geodesic equation takes on the simple form of a particle moving under the
influence of a Newtonian central force with an inverse-cubic potential. We
apply a McGehee transformation to these equations, which clearly elucidates the
full phase space of solutions. All the null geodesics belong to one of four
families of invariant manifolds and their limiting cases, further characterized
by the angular momentum L of the orbit: for |L|>|L_c|, (1) the set that flow
outward from the white hole, turn around, then fall into the black hole, (2)
the set that fall inward from past null infinity, turn around outside the black
hole to continue to future null infinity, and for |L|<|L_c|, (3) the set that
flow outward from the white hole and continue to future null infinity, (4) the
set that flow inward from past null infinity and into the black hole. The
critical angular momentum Lc corresponds to the unstable circular orbit at
r=3M, and the homoclinic orbits associated with it. There are two additional
critical points of the flow at the singularity at r=0. Though the solutions of
geodesic motion and Hamiltonian flow we describe here are well known, what we
believe is a novel aspect of this work is the mapping between the two
equivalent descriptions, and the different insights each approach can give to
the problem. For example, the McGehee picture points to a particularly
interesting limiting case of the class (1) that move from the white to black
hole: in the limit as L goes to infinity, as described in Schwarzschild
coordinates, these geodesics begin at r=0, flow along t=constant lines, turn
around at r=2M, then continue to r=0. During this motion they circle in azimuth
exactly once, and complete the journey in zero affine time.