Group-based brain connectivity networks have great appeal for researchers
interested in gaining further insight into complex brain function and how it
changes across different mental states and disease conditions. Accurately
constructing these networks presents a daunting challenge given the
difficulties associated with accounting for inter-subject topological
variability. Viable approaches to this task must engender networks that capture
the constitutive topological properties of the group of subjects' networks that
it is aiming to represent. The conventional approach has been to use a mean or
median correlation network (Achard et al., 2006; Song et al., 2009) to embody a
group of networks. However, the degree to which their topological properties
conform with those of the groups that they are purported to represent has yet
to be explored. Here we investigate the performance of these mean and median
correlation networks. We also propose an alternative approach based on an
exponential random graph modeling framework and compare its performance to that
of the aforementioned conventional approach. Simpson et al. (2010) illustrated
the utility of exponential random graph models (ERGMs) for creating brain
networks that capture the topological characteristics of a single subject's
brain network. However, their advantageousness in the context of producing a
brain network that "represents" a group of brain networks has yet to be
examined. Here we show that our proposed ERGM approach outperforms the
conventional mean and median correlation based approaches and provides an
accurate and flexible method for constructing group-based representative brain
networks.