Community detection in social graphs has attracted researchers' interest for
a long time. With the widespread of social networks on the Internet it has
recently become an important research domain. Most contributions focus upon the
definition of algorithms for optimizing the so-called modularity function. In
the first place interest was limited to unipartite graph inputs and partitioned
community outputs. Recently bipartite graphs, directed graphs and overlapping
communities have been investigated. Few contributions embrace at the same time
the three types of nodes. In this paper we present a method which unifies
commmunity detection for the three types of nodes and at the same time merges
partitionned and overlapping communities. Moreover results are visualized in
such a way that they can be analyzed and semantically interpreted. For
validation we experiment this method on well known simple benchmarks. It is
then applied to real data in three cases. In two examples of photos sets with
tagged people we reveal social networks. A second type of application is of
particularly interest. After applying our method to Human Brain Tractography
Data provided by a team of neurologists, we produce clusters of white fibers in
accordance with other well known clustering methods. Moreover our approach for
visualizing overlapping clusters allows better understanding of the results by
the neurologist team. These last results open up the possibility of applying
community detection methods in other domains such as data analysis with
original enhanced performances.