We analyze the gains of opportunistic communication in multiuser interference
channels. Consider a fully connected $n$-user Gaussian interference channel. At
each time instance only $K\leq n$ transmitters are allowed to be communicating
with their respective receivers and the remaining $(n-K)$ transmitter-receiver
pairs remain inactive. For finite $n$, if the transmitters can acquire channel
state information (CSI) and if all channel gains are bounded away from zero and
infinity, the seminal results on interference alignment establish that for any
$K$ {\em arbitrary} active pairs the total number of spatial degrees of freedom
per orthogonal time and frequency domain is $\frac{K}{2}$. Also it is
noteworthy that without transmit-side CSI the interference channel becomes
interference-limited and the degrees of freedom is 0. In {\em dense} networks
($n\rightarrow\infty$), however, as the size of the network increase, it
becomes less likely to sustain the bounding conditions on the channel gains. By
exploiting this fact, we show that when $n$ obeys certain scaling laws, by {\em
opportunistically} and {\em dynamically} selecting the $K$ active pairs at each
time instance, the number of degrees of freedom can exceed $\frac{K}{2}$ and in
fact can be made arbitrarily close to $K$. More specifically when all
transmitters and receivers are equipped with one antenna, then the network size
scaling as $n\in\omega(\snr^{d(K-1)})$ is a {\em sufficient} condition for
achieving $d\in[0,K]$ degrees of freedom. Moreover, achieving these degrees of
freedom does not necessitate the transmitters to acquire channel state
information. Hence, invoking opportunistic communication in the context of
interference channels leads to achieving higher degrees of freedom that are not
achievable otherwise.