The properties of mesoscale Lagrangian turbulence in the Adriatic Sea are
studied from a drifter data set spanning 1990-1999, focusing on the role of
inhomogeneity and nonstationarity. A preliminary study is performed on the
dependence of the turbulent velocity statistics on bin averaging, and a
preferential bin scale of 0.25 is chosen. Comparison with independent estimates
obtained using an optimized spline technique confirms this choice. Three main
regions are identified where the velocity statistics are approximately
homogeneous: the two boundary currents, West (East) Adriatic Current, WAC
(EAC), and the southern central gyre, CG. The CG region is found to be
characterized by symmetric probability density function of velocity,
approximately exponential autocorrelations and well defined integral quantities
such as di usivity and time scale. The boundary regions, instead, are
significantly asymmetric with skewness indicating preferential events in the
direction of the mean flow. The autocorrelation in the along mean flow
direction is characterized by two time scales, with a secondary exponential
with slow decay time of 11-12 days particularly evident in the EAC region.
Seasonal partitioning of the data shows that this secondary scale is especially
prominent in the summer-fall season. Possible physical explanations for the
secondary scale are discussed in terms of low frequency fluctuations of
forcings and in terms of mean flow curvature inducing fluctuations in the
particle trajectories. Consequences of the results for transport modelling in
the Adriatic Sea are discussed.