In an important paper, M.E.J. Newman claimed that a general network-based
stochastic Susceptible-Infectious-Removed (SIR) epidemic model is isomorphic to
a bond percolation model, where the bonds are the edges of the contact network
and the bond occupation probability is equal to the marginal probability of
transmission from an infected node to a susceptible neighbor. In this paper, we
show that this isomorphism is incorrect and define a semi-directed random
network we call the epidemic percolation network that is exactly isomorphic to
the SIR epidemic model in any finite population. In the limit of a large
population, (i) the distribution of (self-limited) outbreak sizes is identical
to the size distribution of (small) out-components, (ii) the epidemic threshold
corresponds to the phase transition where a giant strongly-connected component
appears, (iii) the probability of a large epidemic is equal to the probability
that an initial infection occurs in the giant in-component, and (iv) the
relative final size of an epidemic is equal to the proportion of the network
contained in the giant out-component. For the SIR model considered by Newman,
we show that the epidemic percolation network predicts the same mean outbreak
size below the epidemic threshold, the same epidemic threshold, and the same
final size of an epidemic as the bond percolation model. However, the bond
percolation model fails to predict the correct outbreak size distribution and
probability of an epidemic when there is a nondegenerate infectious period
distribution. We confirm our findings by comparing predictions from percolation
networks and bond percolation models to the results of simulations. In an
appendix, we show that an isomorphism to an epidemic percolation network can be
defined for any time-homogeneous stochastic SIR model.