Flow instabilities are widely studied because of their economical and
theoretical interest, however few results have been published about the polymer
electrification during the extrusion. Nevertheless the generation of the
electrical charges is characteristic of the interaction between the polymer
melt and the die walls. In our study, the capillary extrusion of a metallocene
polyethylene (mPE) through a tungsten carbide die is characterized through
accurate electrical measurements thanks a Faraday pail. No significant charges
are observed since the extrudate surface remains smooth. However, as soon as
the sharkskin distortion appears, measurable charges are collected (around 5
10-8 C/m2). Higher level of charges are measured during the spurt or the
gross-melt fracture (g.m.f) defects. This work is focused on the electrical
charging during the sharkskin instability. The variation of the electrical
charges versus the apparent wall shear stress is investigated for different die
geometries. This curve exhibits a linear increase, followed by a sudden growth
just before the onset of the spurt instability. This abrupt charging
corresponds also to the end of the sharkskin instability. It is also well-known
that wall slip appears just at the same time, with smaller velocity values than
during spurt flow. Our results indicate that electrification could be a
signature of the wall slip. We show also that the electrification curves can be
shifted according to the time-temperature superposition principle, leading to
the conclusion that molecular features of the polymer are also involved in this
process.