We present the third in the series of papers describing Poisson properties of
planar directed networks in the disk or in the annulus. In this paper we
concentrate on special networks N_{u,v} in the disk that correspond to the
choice of a pair (u,v) of Coxeter elements in the symmetric group and the
corresponding networks N_{u,v}^\circ in the annulus. Boundary measurements for
N_{u,v} represent elements of the Coxeter double Bruhat cell G^{u,v} in GL_n.
The Cartan subgroup acts on G^{u,v} by conjugation. The standard Poisson
structure on the space of weights of N_{u,v} induces a Poisson structure on
G^{u,v}, and hence on its quotient by the Cartan subgroup, which makes the
latter into the phase space for an appropriate Coxeter--Toda lattice. The
boundary measurement for N_{u,v}^\circ is a rational function that coincides up
to a nonzero factor with the Weyl function for the boundary measurement for
N_{u,v}. The corresponding Poisson bracket on the space of weights of
N_{u,v}^\circ induces a Poisson bracket on the certain space of rational
functions, which appeared previously in the context of Toda flows.
  Following the ideas developed in our previous papers, we introduce a cluster
algebra A on this space, compatible with the obtained Poisson bracket.
Generalized B\"acklund--Darboux transformations map solutions of one
Coxeter--Toda lattice to solutions of another preserving the corresponding Weyl
function. Using network representation, we construct generalized
B\"acklund-Darboux transformations as appropriate sequences of cluster
transformations in A.