The modeling and analysis of networks and network data has seen an explosion
of interest in recent years and represents an exciting direction for potential
growth in statistics. Despite the already substantial amount of work done in
this area to date by researchers from various disciplines, however, there
remain many questions of a decidedly foundational nature - natural analogues of
standard questions already posed and addressed in more classical areas of
statistics - that have yet to even be posed, much less addressed. Here we raise
and consider one such question in connection with network modeling.
Specifically, we ask, "Given an observed network, what is the sample size?"
Using simple, illustrative examples from the class of exponential random graph
models, we show that the answer to this question can very much depend on basic
properties of the networks expected under the model, as the number of vertices
$n_V$ in the network grows. In particular, adopting the (asymptotic) scaling of
the variance of the maximum likelihood parameter estimates as a notion of
effective sample size ($n_{\mathrm{eff}}$), we show that when modeling the
overall propensity to have ties and the propensity to reciprocate ties, whether
the networks are sparse or not under the model (i.e., having a constant or an
increasing number of ties per vertex, respectively) is sufficient to yield an
order of magnitude difference in $n_{\mathrm{eff}}$, from $O(n_V)$ to
$O(n^2_V)$. In addition, we report simulation study results that suggest
similar properties for models for triadic (friend-of-a-friend) effects. We then
explore some practical implications of this result, using both simulation and
data on food-sharing from Lamalera, Indonesia.