Fluctuating hydrodynamics has been successfully combined with several
computational methods to rapidly compute the correlated random velocities of
Brownian particles. In the overdamped limit where both particle and fluid
inertia are ignored, one must also account for a Brownian drift term in order
to successfully update the particle positions. In this paper, we introduce and
study a midpoint time integration scheme we refer to as the drifter-corrector
(DC) that resolves the drift term for fluctuating hydrodynamics-based methods
even when constraints are imposed on the fluid flow to obtain higher-order
corrections to the particle hydrodynamic interactions. We explore this scheme
in the context of the fluctuating force-coupling method (FCM) where the
constraint is imposed on the rate-of-strain averaged over the volume occupied
by the particle. For the DC, the constraint need only be imposed once per time
step, leading to a significant reduction in computational cost with respect to
other schemes. In fact, for fluctuating FCM, the DC reduces the total
additional cost of including Brownian motion to just a single flow solve per
time-step. By performing a series of simulations, we show that the DC is
effective in both reproducing the equilibrium distribution and the evolution of
particulate suspensions. In addition, we demonstrate that fluctuating FCM
coupled with the DC provides an efficient and accurate method for large-scale
dynamic simulation of colloidal dispersions and the study of processes such as
colloidal gelation.