This thesis can be framed in a more general concept designated as "High
resolution in solar physics". The first part of the thesis is dedicated to the
topic of high-resolution observations and image restoration. It begins with a
theoretical reviewing of the problem that represents the atmospheric turbulence
and the instrumental aberrations on the image quality. This problem force us to
implement post-facto image restoration techniques that, added to the real-time
corrections performed by the Adaptive Optics, gives us images closer to
reality. To have good solar observations overcoming the negative influence of
the Earth' s atmosphere, one effort is being made with the development of the
Sunrise mission. This project consists in a balloon-borne mission that will
launch a 1-m telescope to the stratosphere and will record data with
unprecedented temporal, spatial and spectral resolution. The main aim of
Sunrise is to study the formation of magnetic structures in the solar
atmosphere and their interaction with the convective plasma flows. The on-board
instrument Imaging Magnetograph eXperiment (IMaX) will be able to produce
magnetic field maps of extensive solar regions by measuring the light
polarization in certain spectral lines. As a member of the IMaX team, I have
developed an in-flight calibration method to characterize the aberrations
affecting the images in IMaX. The second part of the thesis is centered on the
study of horizontal flows in solar active regions. Data from ground-based and
space observations are used as well as reconstruction techniques to restore the
images. We focus on the proper motions of structures in and around solar active
regions. The way to quantify the horizontal flows in the field-of-view consist
of using local correlation tracking techniques that generate flow maps.