We simultaneously observed the Stokes parameters of the photospheric iron
line pair at 630.2 nm and the intensity profile of the chromospheric Ca II H
line at 396.8 nm in a quiet Sun region at a heliocentric angle of 53 deg. We
perform a statistical analysis of network and inter-network properties.The
H-index is the integrated emission in a 0.1 nm band around the Ca core. We
separate a non-magnetically, H_non, and a magnetically, H_mag, heated component
from a non-heated component, H_co in the H-index. The average network and
inter-network H-indices are equal to 12 and 10 pm, respectively. The emission
in the network is correlated with the magnetic flux density, approaching a
value of H 10 pm for vanishing flux. The inter-network magnetic field is
dominated by weak field strengths with values down to 200 G and its mean
absolute flux density is 11 Mx cm$^{-2}$. We find that a dominant fraction of
the calcium emission caused by the heated atmosphere in the magnetic network,
has non-magnetic origin (H_mag = 2pm, H_non = 3pm). Considering the effect of
straylight, the contribution from an atmosphere with no temperature rise to the
H-index (H_co = 6pm) is about half of the observed H-index in the
inter-network. The H-index in the inter-network is not correlated to any
property of the photospheric magnetic field, suggesting that magnetic flux
concentrations have a negligible role in the chromospheric heating in this
region. The height range of the thermal coupling between the photosphere and
low/mid chromosphere increases in presence of magnetic field. In addition, we
demonstrate that a poor signal-to-noise level in the Stokes profiles leads to a
significant over-estimation of the magnetic field strength.