In this paper, the physical conditions within the inhomogeneous solar
atmosphere have been reconstructed by means of solving the inverse problem of
Non Local Thermodynamic Equilibrium (NLTE) radiative transfer. The profiles of
$\lambda=523.42$ nm FeI spectral line of high spatial and time resolution were
used as observational data. The velocity field has been studied for the real
solar granulation in superadiabatic layer and overshooting convection region.
Also, we investigate the vertical structure of inhomogeneous solar photosphere
and consider penetration of granules from convective region into upper layers
of stable atmosphere. The microturbulent velocity appears to be minimal at the
bottom of overshooting convection region and increases sharply through
superadiabatic layer and upper photosphere. High-turbulent layers emerge either
in the central part of a flow or at the boundary of an incipient flow with
following drift toward the centre of the flow. Wide descending flows tend to
disintegrate into structures having turbulence augmented, these structures
correspond to the flows of matter. High microturbulence of the intensive flows
provokes steep temperature depression in upper photosphere leading to the
second inversion of temperature for the intergranules. The inversion of
vertical velocities is observed to be frequent in the solar granulation. Some
of the convective flows reach the minimum temperature region. Vertical
convective velocities of the matter flows were found to be smaller in the
middle and upper photosphere. Also, the effect of finite resolution on the
spacial variations of the velocities in solar photosphere has been estimated.