Information overload has become an ubiquitous problem in modern society.
Social media users and microbloggers receive an endless flow of information,
often at a rate far higher than their cognitive abilities to process the
information. In this paper, we conduct a large scale quantitative study of
information overload and evaluate its impact on information dissemination in
the Twitter social media site. We model social media users as information
processing systems that queue incoming information according to some policies,
process information from the queue at some unknown rates and decide to forward
some of the incoming information to other users. We show how timestamped data
about tweets received and forwarded by users can be used to uncover key
properties of their queueing policies and estimate their information processing
rates and limits. Such an understanding of users' information processing
behaviors allows us to infer whether and to what extent users suffer from
information overload.
  Our analysis provides empirical evidence of information processing limits for
social media users and the prevalence of information overloading. The most
active and popular social media users are often the ones that are overloaded.
Moreover, we find that the rate at which users receive information impacts
their processing behavior, including how they prioritize information from
different sources, how much information they process, and how quickly they
process information. Finally, the susceptibility of a social media user to
social contagions depends crucially on the rate at which she receives
information. An exposure to a piece of information, be it an idea, a convention
or a product, is much less effective for users that receive information at
higher rates, meaning they need more exposures to adopt a particular contagion.