We study the distribution of the resistance fluctuations of biased resistor
networks in nonequilibrium steady states. The stationary conditions arise from
the competition between two stochastic and biased processes of breaking and
recovery of the elementary resistors. The fluctuations of the network
resistance are calculated by Monte Carlo simulations which are performed for
different values of the applied current, for networks of different size and
shape and by considering different levels of intrinsic disorder. The
distribution of the resistance fluctuations generally exhibits relevant
deviations from Gaussianity, in particular when the current approaches the
threshold of electrical breakdown. For two-dimensional systems we have shown
that this non-Gaussianity is in general related to finite size effects, thus it
vanishes in the thermodynamic limit, with the remarkable exception of highly
disordered networks. For these systems, close to the critical point of the
conductor-insulator transition, non-Gaussianity persists in the large size
limit and it is well described by the universal Bramwell-Holdsworth-Pinton
distribution. In particular, here we analyze the role of the shape of the
network on the distribution of the resistance fluctuations. Precisely, we
consider quasi-one-dimensional networks elongated along the direction of the
applied current or trasversal to it. A significant anisotropy is found for the
properties of the distribution. These results apply to conducting thin films or
wires with granular structure stressed by high current densities.