Semantic memory is the subsystem of human memory that stores knowledge of
concepts or meanings, as opposed to life specific experiences. The organization
of concepts within semantic memory can be understood as a semantic network,
where the concepts (nodes) are associated (linked) to others depending on
perceptions, similarities, etc. Lexical access is the complementary part of
this system and allows the retrieval of such organized knowledge. While
conceptual information is stored under certain underlying organization (and
thus gives rise to a specific topology), it is crucial to have an accurate
access to any of the information units, e.g. the concepts, for efficiently
retrieving semantic information for real-time needings. An example of an
information retrieval process occurs in verbal fluency tasks, and it is known
to involve two different mechanisms: -clustering-, or generating words within a
subcategory, and, when a subcategory is exhausted, -switching- to a new
subcategory. We extended this approach to random-walking on a network
(clustering) in combination to jumping (switching) to any node with certain
probability and derived its analytical expression based on Markov chains.
Results show that this dual mechanism contributes to optimize the exploration
of different network models in terms of the mean first passage time.
Additionally, this cognitive inspired dual mechanism opens a new framework to
better understand and evaluate exploration, propagation and transport phenomena
in other complex systems where switching-like phenomena are feasible.