There is a rich recent literature on how to assist secure communication
between a single transmitter and receiver at the physical layer of wireless
networks through techniques such as cooperative jamming. In this paper, we
consider how these single-hop physical layer security techniques can be
extended to multi-hop wireless networks and show how to augment physical layer
security techniques with higher layer network mechanisms such as coding and
routing. Specifically, we consider the secure minimum energy routing problem,
in which the objective is to compute a minimum energy path between two network
nodes subject to constraints on the end-to-end communication secrecy and
goodput over the path. This problem is formulated as a constrained optimization
of transmission power and link selection, which is proved to be NP-hard.
Nevertheless, we show that efficient algorithms exist to compute both exact and
approximate solutions for the problem. In particular, we develop an exact
solution of pseudo-polynomial complexity, as well as an epsilon-optimal
approximation of polynomial complexity. Simulation results are also provided to
show the utility of our algorithms and quantify their energy savings compared
to a combination of (standard) security-agnostic minimum energy routing and
physical layer security. In the simulated scenarios, we observe that, by
jointly optimizing link selection at the network layer and cooperative jamming
at the physical layer, our algorithms reduce the network energy consumption by
half.