This paper analyzes the continuous-time simultaneous route-and-departure
choice (SRDC) dynamic user equilibrium (DUE) that incorporates boundedness of
user rationality. As such, the bounded rationality dynamic user equilibrium
(BR-DUE) model assumes that travelers do not always seek the least costly
route-and-departure-time choice. Rather, their perception of travel cost is
affected by an indifference band which describes travelers' tolerance towards
the difference between their experienced travel costs and the minimum travel
cost. We further extend our subject of investigation to include a variable
tolerance (VT) BR-DUE with endogenously determined tolerances that may depend
not only on a particular path, but also on the established path flows (path
departure rates). The VT-BR- DUE model captures more realistic driving
behaviors that stem from path heterogeneity, and drivers' observations of
prevailing traffic conditions.
  For the first time in the literature, the continuous-time VT-BR-DUE problem,
together with the BR-DUE problem as a special case, is formulated as an
infinite dimensional variational inequality, a differential variational
inequality, and a fixed point problem. Existence results for VT-BR-DUE and
BR-DUE are provided based on assumptions weaker than those made for SRDC DUEs.
Moreover, we propose, based on the fixed point formulation, a fixed-point
iterative algorithm that computes VT-BR-DUE and BR-DUE in continuous time,
which is then tested on several networks in terms of solution characteristics,
convergence, and computational time.