We consider energy-efficient scheduling on multiprocessors, where the speed
of each processor can be individually scaled, and a processor consumes power
$s^{\alpha}$ when running at speed $s$, for $\alpha>1$. A scheduling algorithm
needs to decide at any time both processor allocations and processor speeds for
a set of parallel jobs with time-varying parallelism. The objective is to
minimize the sum of the total energy consumption and certain performance
metric, which in this paper includes total flow time and makespan. For both
objectives, we present instantaneous parallelism clairvoyant (IP-clairvoyant)
algorithms that are aware of the instantaneous parallelism of the jobs at any
time but not their future characteristics, such as remaining parallelism and
work. For total flow time plus energy, we present an $O(1)$-competitive
algorithm, which significantly improves upon the best known non-clairvoyant
algorithm and is the first constant competitive result on multiprocessor speed
scaling for parallel jobs. In the case of makespan plus energy, which is
considered for the first time in the literature, we present an
$O(\ln^{1-1/\alpha}P)$-competitive algorithm, where $P$ is the total number of
processors. We show that this algorithm is asymptotically optimal by providing
a matching lower bound. In addition, we also study non-clairvoyant scheduling
for total flow time plus energy, and present an algorithm that achieves $O(\ln
P)$-competitive for jobs with arbitrary release time and
$O(\ln^{1/\alpha}P)$-competitive for jobs with identical release time. Finally,
we prove an $\Omega(\ln^{1/\alpha}P)$ lower bound on the competitive ratio of
any non-clairvoyant algorithm, matching the upper bound of our algorithm for
jobs with identical release time.