Zonal and meridional axisymmetric flows can deeply impact the rotational and
chemical evolution of stars. Therefore, momentum exchanges between waves
propagating in stars, differential rotation, and meridional circulation must be
carefully evaluated. In this work, we study axisymmetric mean flows in rapidly
and initially uniformly rotating massive stars driven by small amplitude
non-axisymmetric $\kappa$-driven oscillations. We treat them as perturbations
of second-order of the oscillation amplitudes and derive their governing
equations as a set of coupled linear ordinary differential equations. This
allows us to compute 2-D zonal and meridional mean flows driven by low
frequency $g$- and $r$-modes in slowly pulsating B (SPB) stars and $p$-modes in
$\beta$ Cephei stars. Oscillation-driven mean flows usually have large
amplitudes only in the surface layers. In addition, the kinetic energy of the
induced 2-D zonal rotational motions is much larger than that of the meridional
motions. In some cases, meridional flows have a complex radial and latitudinal
structure. For SPB stars, we find that there are low frequency retrograde
$g$-modes and $r$-modes that drive mean flows with positive velocity components
in the radial and azimuthal directions at the stellar surface. This suggests
that low frequency retrograde modes can transport angular momentum to the
surface layers, which may help to form a circumstellar gaseous disc. Moreover,
pulsation-driven and rotation-driven meridional flows can have similar
amplitudes. These results show the importance of taking wave-- mean flow
interactions into account when studying the evolution of massive stars.