Asymptotic-in-time feedback control of a panel interacting with an inviscid,
subsonic flow is considered. The classical model [22] is given by a clamped
nonlinear plate strongly coupled to a convected wave equation on the half
space. In the absence of imposed energy dissipation the plate dynamics converge
to a compact and finite dimensional set [16,17]. With a sufficiently large
velocity feedback control on the structure we show that the full flow-plate
system exhibits strong convergence to the stationary set in the natural energy
topology. In doing so, we demonstrate the existence of an exponential attractor
for the plate dynamics. That the exponential attractor exhibits additional
smoothness is the technical crux of the main result. This property cannot be
taken for granted, as exponential attractors are often compact but not
necessarily smooth (in contrast with global maximal attractors).
  Our result implies that flutter (a periodic or chaotic end behavior) can be
eliminated (in subsonic flows) with sufficient frictional damping in the
structure. While such a result has been proved in the past for regularized
plate models (with rotational inertia terms or thermal considerations
[14,33,38,39]), this is the first treatment which does not incorporate
smoothing effects for the structure. In order to contend with this set of new
difficulties, the theory of exponential and smooth attractors for the nonlinear
structural dynamics is developed; this depends upon a specific decomposition of
the dynamics (critically depending on the nonlinearity). This result is of
independent interest.