The increasing demand for advanced services in wireless networks raises the
problem for quality of service (QoS) provisioning with proper resource
management. In this research, such a provisioning technique for wireless
networks is performed by Call Admission Control (CAC). A new approach in CAC
named by Uniform Fractional Band (UFB) is proposed in this work for the
wireless networks for providing proper priority between new calls and handover
calls. This UFB scheme is basically a new style of handover priority scheme.
Handover priority is provided by two stages in this scheme which help the
network to utilize more resources. In addition, the handover call rate
estimation and its impact on QoS provisioning is discussed widely to attain the
optimum QoS in proposed handover priority scheme. In multiple services
providing wireless network, excessive call blocking of lower priority traffic
is very often event at very high traffic rate which is a concerning issue for
QoS provisioning. To attain such QoS provisioning for multiple services,
another CAC scheme is proposed in this research work. This scheme is recognized
by Uniform Band Thinning (UBT) scheme which is based on uniform thinning
technique (UTT) and this is quite similar idea as UFB scheme. In this scheme, a
set of channels experiences the fractionizing policy. This scheme reduces the
call blocking probabilities (CBP) of lower priority traffic classes without
notably increasing the CBP of the higher priority traffic classes. The
analytical functions of this scheme are deduced in general form which is useful
to deduce for any number of traffic classes. In addition, numerical analysis of
the proposed UBT scheme shows that the performances in terms of call blocking
probability, overall call blocking probability, and channel utilization are
improved and optimized compared to the conventional fixed guard channel scheme.