We report on the transient dynamics of an attractive silica dispersion that
displays strong physical aging. Extensive rheology coupled to ultrasonic
velocimetry allows us to characterize the global stress response together with
the local dynamics of the gel during shear startup experiments. In practice,
after being rejuvenated by a preshear, the dispersion is left to age during a
time $t_w$ before being submitted to a constant shear rate $\dot \gamma$. We
investigate in detail the effects of both $t_w$ and $\dot \gamma$ on the
fluidization dynamics and build a complete phase diagram of the gel behavior.
At large enough shear rates, the gel is fully fluidized and flows homogeneously
independently of its age. Under lower shear rates, the strong interplay between
aging and shear rejuvenation leads, together with wall slip, to a more complex
phenomenology. The gel may either display transient shear banding towards
complete fluidization, or steady-state shear banding. In the former case, we
unravel that the progressive fluidization occurs by successive steps that
appear as peaks on the global stress relaxation signal. Flow imaging reveals
that the shear band grows up to complete fluidization of the material by sudden
avalanche-like events that are correlated to large peaks in the slip velocity
at the moving wall. In the case of steady-state shear banding, we recover the
classical scenario involving a critical shear rate $ \dot \gamma_c$ below which
no homogeneous steady flow is possible. We show here that $\dot \gamma_c$
displays a nonlinear behavior with $t_w$. Our work paves the way for a thorough
description of transient flows of weak attractive gels, and highlights the
subtle interplay between shear, wall slip and aging that constitutes a major
challenge in terms of modeling that has yet not been met.