Silicon photonics enables on-chip ultra-high bandwidth optical communications
networks which is critical for the future of microelectronics1,2. By encoding
information on-chip using multiple wavelength channels through the process of
wavelength division multiplexing (WDM), communication bandwidths in excess of 1
Tbit s-1 are possible3. Already several optical components critical to WDM
networks have been demonstrated in silicon, however a fully integrated multiple
wavelength source capable of driving such a network has not yet been realized.
Optical amplification, a necessary component for producing a source, can be
achieved in silicon through stimulated Raman scattering4,5, parametric mixing6,
and the use of silicon nanocrystals7 or nanopatterned silicon8. Losses in most
of these previously demonstrated devices have prevented oscillations in those
structures. Raman oscillators have been demonstrated9-11, but the narrow Raman
gain window limits operation to a tightly restricted (~ 1 nm) wavelength range
and thus is insufficient for WDM. Losses in other previously demonstrated
devices have prevented oscillations in those structures. Here we demonstrate
the first monolithically integrated CMOS-compatible multiple wavelength source
by creating an optical parametric oscillator (OPO) formed by a silicon nitride
ring resonator on silicon coupled to an integrated waveguide. The device can
generate more than 100 new wavelengths, spaced by a few nm, with operating
powers below 50 mW. This source can form the backbone of a fully operational
high-bandwidth optical communications network on a microelectronic chip
enabling the next generation of multi-core microprocessors.