Friend suggestion is a fundamental problem in social networks with the goal
of assisting users in creating more relationships, and thereby enhances
interest of users to the social networks. This problem is often considered to
be the link prediction problem in the network. ZingMe is one of the largest
social networks in Vietnam. In this paper, we analyze the current approach for
the friend suggestion problem in ZingMe, showing its limitations and
disadvantages. We propose a new efficient approach for friend suggestion that
uses information from the network structure, attributes and interactions of
users to create resources for the evaluation of friend connection amongst
users. Friend connection is evaluated exploiting both direct communication
between the users and information from other ones in the network. The proposed
approach has been implemented in a new system version of ZingMe. We conducted
experiments, exploiting a dataset derived from the users' real use of ZingMe,
to compare the newly proposed approach to the current approach and some
well-known ones for the accuracy of friend suggestion. The experimental results
show that the newly proposed approach outperforms the current one, i.e., by an
increase of 7% to 98% on average in the friend suggestion accuracy. The
proposed approach also outperforms other ones for users who have a small number
of friends with improvements from 20% to 85% on average. In this paper, we also
discuss a number of open issues and possible improvements for the proposed
approach.