Surfaces serve as highly efficient catalysts for a vast variety of chemical
reactions. Typically, such surface reactions involve billions of molecules
which diffuse and react over macroscopic areas. Therefore, stochastic
fluctuations are negligible and the reaction rates can be evaluated using rate
equations, which are based on the mean-field approximation. However, in case
that the surface is partitioned into a large number of disconnected microscopic
domains, the number of reactants in each domain becomes small and it strongly
fluctuates. This is, in fact, the situation in the interstellar medium, where
some crucial reactions take place on the surfaces of microscopic dust grains.
In this case rate equations fail and the simulation of surface reactions
requires stochastic methods such as the master equation. However, in the case
of complex reaction networks, the master equation becomes infeasible because
the number of equations proliferates exponentially. To solve this problem, we
introduce a stochastic method based on moment equations. In this method the
number of equations is dramatically reduced to just one equation for each
reactive species and one equation for each reaction. Moreover, the equations
can be easily constructed using a diagrammatic approach. We demonstrate the
method for a set of astrophysically relevant networks of increasing complexity.
It is expected to be applicable in many other contexts in which problems that
exhibit analogous structure appear, such as surface catalysis in nanoscale
systems, aerosol chemistry in stratospheric clouds and genetic networks in
cells.