Knotty structures of Herbig-Haro jets are common phenomena, and knowing the
origin of these structures is essential for understanding the processes of jet
formation. Basically, there are two theoretical approaches: different types of
instabilities in stationary flow, and velocity variations in the flow. We
investigate the structures with different radial velocities in the knots of the
HL Tau jet as well as its unusual behaviour starting from 20 arcsec from the
source. Collation of radial velocity data with proper motion measurements of
emission structures in the jet of HL Tau makes it possible to understand the
origin of these structures and decide on the mechanism for the formation of the
knotty structures in Herbig-Haro flows. We present observations obtained with a
6 m telescope (Russia) using the SCORPIO camera with scanning Fabry-Perot
interferometer. Two epochs of the observations of the HL/XZ Tau region in
Halpha emission (2001 and 2007) allowed us to measure proper motions for high
and low radial velocity structures. The structures with low and high radial
velocities in the HL Tau jet show the same proper motion. The point where the
HL Tau jet bents to the north (it coincides with the trailing edge of so-called
knot A) is stationary, i.e. does not have any perceptible proper motion and is
visible in Halpha emission only. We conclude that the high- and low- velocity
structures in the HL Tau jet represent bow-shocks and Mach disks in the
internal working surfaces of episodic outflows. The bend of the jet and the
brightness increase starting some distance from the source coincides with the
observed stationary deflecting shock. The increase of relative surface
brightness of bow-shocks could be the result of the abrupt change of the
physical conditions of the ambient medium as well as the interaction of a
highly collimated flow and the side wind from XZ Tau.