Trip distribution laws are basic for the travel demand characterization
needed in transport and urban planning. Several approaches have been considered
in the last years. One of them is the so-called gravity law, in which the
number of trips is assumed to be related to the population at origin and
destination and to decrease with the distance. The mathematical expression of
this law resembles Newton's law of gravity, which explains its name. Another
popular approach is inspired by the theory of intervening opportunities and it
has been concreted into the so-called radiation models. Individuals are
supposed to travel until they find a job opportunity, so the population and
jobs spatial distributions naturally lead to a trip flow network. In this
paper, we perform a thorough comparison between the gravity and the radiation
approaches in their ability at estimating commuting flows. We test the gravity
and the radiation laws against empirical trip data at different scales and
coming from different countries. Different versions of the gravity and the
radiation laws are used to estimate the probability that an individual has to
commute from one unit to another, called trip distribution law. Based on these
probability distribution the commuting networks are simulated with different
trip distribution models. We show that the gravity law performs better than the
radiation law to estimate the commuting flows, to preserve the structure of the
network and to fit the commuting distance distribution although it fails at
predicting commuting flows at large distances. Finally, we show that both
approaches can be used in absence of detailed data for calibration since the
only parameter of both the gravity and the radiation laws depends only on the
scale of the geographic unit.