A Wardrop equilibrium for multiple routes requires equal travel time on each
path used. With real-time traffic data regarding travel times, it is important
to analyze how to use the information provided. In particular, can a Wardrop
equilibrium be realized? Simulations using the three-phase model on a two-route
example are presented to answer this question. One route (the main line) is a
two-lane highway with a stalled vehicle in the right lane and the other route
is a low-speed bypass. For a critical incoming flow, a phase transition between
free flow and congested flow near the stalled vehicle is observed, making this
a challenging example. In the first scenario, drivers choose routes selfishly
on the basis of current travel times. The result is strong oscillations in
travel time because of the inherent delay in the information provided. The
second scenario involves a hypothetical control system that limits the number
of vehicles on the main line to prevent the free-flow to congested-flow phase
transition by diverting sufficient flow to the bypass. The resulting steady
state is neither a Wardrop equilibrium nor a system optimum, but an
intermediate state in which the main-line travel time is less than on the
bypass but the average for all vehicles is close to a minimum. In a third
scenario, anticipation is used as a driver-advice system to provide a fair
indicator of which route to take. Prediction is based on real-time data
comparing the number of vehicles on the main line at the time a vehicle leaves
the origin to the actual travel time when it reaches the destination. Steady
states that approximate Wardrop equilbria, or close to them, are obtained.