In recent years extensive studies on the Earth's climate system have been
carried out by means of advanced complex network statistics. The great majority
of these studies, however, have been focusing on investigating interaction
structures within single climatological fields directly on or parallel to the
Earth's surface. In this work, we develop a novel approach of node weighted
interacting network measures to study ocean-atmosphere coupling in the Northern
Hemisphere and construct 18 coupled climate networks, each consisting of two
subnetworks. In all cases, one subnetwork represents monthly sea-surface
temperature (SST) anomalies while the other is based on the monthly
geopotential height (HGT) of isobaric surfaces at different pressure levels
covering the troposphere as well as the lower stratosphere. The weighted
cross-degree density proves to be consistent with the leading coupled pattern
obtained from maximum covariance analysis, while network measures of higher
order allow for a further analysis of the correlation structure between the two
fields. Zonally averaged local network measures reveal the sets of latitudinal
bands for which there exists a strong coupling between parts of the ocean and
the atmosphere. Global network measures quantify the strength of these
interactions and identify atmospheric layers which form dynamical clusters of
comparable strength with the ocean. All measures consistently indicate that the
ocean-to-atmosphere coupling in the Northern Hemisphere follows a hierarchical
structure in the sense that large areas in the ocean couple with multiple
dynamically dissimilar areas in the atmosphere. We propose, that these patterns
can be attributed to large-scale ocean currents that interact with and mediate
between smaller dynamical clusters in the atmosphere.