Online multiplayer games are a popular form of social interaction, used by
hundreds of millions of individuals. However, little is known about the social
networks within these online games, or how they evolve over time. Understanding
human social dynamics within massive online games can shed new light on social
interactions in general and inform the development of more engaging systems.
Here, we study a novel, large friendship network, inferred from nearly 18
billion social interactions over 44 weeks between 17 million individuals in the
popular online game Halo: Reach. This network is one of the largest, most
detailed temporal interaction networks studied to date, and provides a novel
perspective on the dynamics of online friendship networks, as opposed to mere
interaction graphs. Initially, this network exhibits strong structural turnover
and decays rapidly from a peak size. In the following period, however, both
network size and turnover stabilize, producing a dynamic structural
equilibrium. In contrast to other studies, we find that the Halo friendship
network is non-densifying: both the mean degree and the average pairwise
distance are stable, suggesting that densification cannot occur when
maintaining friendships is costly. Finally, players with greater long-term
engagement exhibit stronger local clustering, suggesting a group-level social
engagement process. These results demonstrate the utility of online games for
studying social networks, shed new light on empirical temporal graph patterns,
and clarify the claims of universality of network densification.