We examine vortex pinning and dynamics in thin-film superconductors
interacting with square and rectangular pinning arrays for varied vortex
densities including densities significantly larger than the pinning density.
For both square and rectangular pinning arrays, the critical depinning force
shows maxima at only certain integer matching fields where the vortices can
form highly ordered arrays. For rectangular arrays the depinning force and
commensurability effects are anisotropic with a much lower depinning threshold
for vortex motion in the easy flow directions. We find evidence for a crossover
in pinning behavior in rectangular pinning arrays as the field is increased. We
also show analytically, and confirm with simulations, that for $B = 2B_{\phi}$
the strongest pinning can be achieved for rectangular pinning arrangements
rather than square for one direction of driving force. Under an applied driving
force we find a remarkable variety of distinct complex flow phases in both
square and rectangular arrays. These flow phases include stable sinusoidal and
intricate pinched patterns where vortices from different channels do not mix.
As a function of the driving force certain flow states become unstable and
transitions between different phases are observed which coincide with changes
in the net vortex velocities. In the rectangular arrays the types of flow
depend on the direction of drive. We also show that two general types of
plastic flow occur: stable flows, where vortices always flow along the same
paths, and unstable or chaotic flows.