Mobile Ad Hoc Network (MANET) is a collection of two or more devices or nodes
or terminals with wireless communications and networking capability that
communicate with each other without the aid of any centralized administrator
also the wireless nodes that can dynamically form a network to exchange
information without using any existing fixed network infrastructure. And it's
an autonomous system in which mobile hosts connected by wireless links are free
to be dynamically and some time act as routers at the same time, and we discuss
in this paper the distinct characteristics of traditional wired networks,
including network configuration may change at any time, there is no direction
or limit the movement and so on, and thus needed a new optional path Agreement
(Routing Protocol) to identify nodes for these actions communicate with each
other path, An ideal choice way the agreement should not only be able to find
the right path, and the Ad Hoc Network must be able to adapt to changing
network of this type at any time. and we talk in details in this paper all the
information of Mobile Ad Hoc Network which include the History of ad hoc,
wireless ad hoc, wireless mobile approaches and types of mobile ad Hoc
networks, and then we present more than 13 types of the routing Ad Hoc Networks
protocols have been proposed. In this paper, the more representative of routing
protocols, analysis of individual characteristics and advantages and
disadvantages to collate and compare, and present the all applications or the
Possible Service of Ad Hoc Networks.