Convection-dominated accretion flows (CDAF) are expected to have a shallower
density profile and a higher radiation efficiency as compared to
advection-dominated accretion flows (ADAF). Both solutions have been developed
to account for the observed properties of the low luminosity, high temperature
X-ray sources believed to involve accretion onto massive black holes.
Self-similar CDAFs also have steeper poloidal density gradients and
temperatures close to the virial temperature. All these characteristics make
CDAFs more capable of producing polar outflows driven by Compton heating as
compared to other classical accretion disks. We investigate the conditions for
producing such outflows in CDAFs and look for the mass accretion rate, or,
equally, the luminosity of CDAFs for which such outflows will exist. When the
electron temperature saturates around 10^11 K at the inner region, polar
outflows are probable for 8x10^-7 <~ L/L_E <~ 4x10^-5, where L_E is the
Eddington luminosity. Outflows are well collimated with small opening angles.
The luminosity range for which outflow solutions exist is narrower for lower
electron temperature flows and disappears completely for electron temperature
<~ 6x10^9 K. When the magnetic field is present, we find that outflows are
possible if the magnetic field is less than from 10% to 1% of the equipartition
field. We also find that outflows are more likely to be produced when the
viscosity parameter alpha is small. The tendency for jet-like collimated
outflows for these solutions is presumably astrophysically relevant given the
high frequency of jets from AGNs.