The stability of networks is greatly influenced by their degree distributions
and in particular by their broadness. Networks with broader degree
distributions are usually more robust to random failures but less robust to
localized attacks. To better understand the effect of the broadness of the
degree distribution we study here two models where the broadness is controlled
and compare their robustness against localized attacks (LA) and random attacks
(RA). We study analytically and by numerical simulations the cases where the
degrees in the networks follow a Bi-Poisson distribution $P(k)=\alpha
e^{-\lambda_1}\frac{\lambda_1^k}{k!}+(1-\alpha)
e^{-\lambda_2}\frac{\lambda_2^k}{k!},\alpha\in[0,1]$, and a Gaussian
distribution $P(k)=A \cdot exp{(-\frac{(k-\mu)^2}{2\sigma^2})}$ with a
normalization constant $A$ where $k\geq 0$. In the Bi-Poisson distribution the
broadness is controlled by the values of $\alpha$, $\lambda_1$ and $\lambda_2$,
while in the Gaussian distribution it is controlled by the standard deviation,
$\sigma$. We find that only for $\alpha=0$ or $\alpha=1$, namely degrees
obeying a pure Poisson distribution, LA and RA are the same but for all other
cases networks are more vulnerable under LA compared to RA. For Gaussian
distribution, with an average degree $\mu$ fixed, we find that when $\sigma^2$
is smaller than $\mu$ the network is more vulnerable against random attack.
However, when $\sigma^2$ is larger than $\mu$ the network becomes more
vulnerable against localized attack. Similar qualitative results are also shown
for interdependent networks.