In this paper, we present an experimental analysis of the asynchronous push &
pull rumour spreading protocol. This protocol is, to date, the best-performing
rumour spreading protocol for simple, scalable, and robust information
dissemination in distributed systems. We analyse the effect that multiple
parameters have on the protocol's performance, such as using memory to avoid
contacting the same neighbor twice in a row, varying the stopping criteria used
by nodes to decide when to stop spreading the rumour, employing more
sophisticated neighbor selection policies instead of the standard uniform
random choice, and others. Prior work has focused on either providing
theoretical upper bounds regarding the number of rounds needed to spread the
rumour to all nodes, or, proposes improvements by adjusting isolated
parameters. To our knowledge, our work is the first to study how multiple
parameters affect system behaviour both in isolation and combination and under
a wide range of values. Our analysis is based on experimental simulations using
real-world social network datasets, thus complementing prior theoretical work
to shed light on how the protocol behaves in practical, real-world systems. We
also study the behaviour of the protocol on a special type of social graph,
called signed networks (e.g., Slashdot and Epinions), whose links indicate
stronger trust relationships. Finally, through our detailed analysis, we
demonstrate how a few simple additions to the protocol can improve the total
time required to inform 100% of the nodes by a maximum of 99.69% and an average
of 82.37%.