The recent interest in using microorganisms for biofuels is motivation enough
to study bioconvection and cell dispersion in tubes subject to imposed flow. To
optimize light and nutrient uptake, many microorganisms swim in directions
biased by environmental cues (e.g. phototaxis in algae and chemotaxis in
bacteria). Such taxes inevitably lead to accumulations of cells, which, as many
microorganisms have a density different to the fluid, can induce hydrodynamic
instabilites. The large-scale fluid flow and spectacular patterns that arise
are termed bioconvection. However, the extent to which bioconvection is
affected or suppressed by an imposed fluid flow, and how bioconvection
influences the mean flow profile and cell transport are open questions. This
experimental study is the first to address these issues by quantifying the
patterns due to suspensions of the gravitactic and gyrotactic green
biflagellate alga Chlamydomonas in horizontal tubes subject to an imposed flow.
With no flow, the dependence of the dominant pattern wavelength at pattern
onset on cell concentration is established for three different tube diameters.
For small imposed flows, the vertical plumes of cells are observed merely to
bow in the direction of flow. For sufficiently high flow rates, the plumes
progressively fragment into piecewise linear diagonal plumes, unexpectedly
inclined at constant angles and translating at fixed speeds. The pattern
wavelength generally grows with flow rate, with transitions at critical rates
that depend on concentration. Even at high imposed flow rates, bioconvection is
not wholly suppressed and perturbs the flow field.