We generalize a sampling algorithm for lattice animals (connected clusters on
a regular lattice) to a Monte Carlo algorithm for `graph animals', i.e.
connected subgraphs in arbitrary networks. As with the algorithm in [N. Kashtan
et al., Bioinformatics 20, 1746 (2004)], it provides a weighted sample, but the
computation of the weights is much faster (linear in the size of subgraphs,
instead of super-exponential). This allows subgraphs with up to ten or more
nodes to be sampled with very high statistics, from arbitrarily large networks.
Using this together with a heuristic algorithm for rapidly classifying
isomorphic graphs, we present results for two protein interaction networks
obtained using the TAP high throughput method: one of Escherichia coli with 230
nodes and 695 links, and one for yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) with roughly
ten times more nodes and links. We find in both cases that most connected
subgraphs are strong motifs (Z-scores >10) or anti-motifs (Z-scores <-10) when
the null model is the ensemble of networks with fixed degree sequence. Strong
differences appear between the two networks, with dominant motifs in E. coli
being (nearly) bipartite graphs and having many pairs of nodes which connect to
the same neighbors, while dominant motifs in yeast tend towards completeness or
contain large cliques. We also explore a number of methods that do not rely on
measurements of Z-scores or comparisons with null models. For instance, we
discuss the influence of specific complexes like the 26S proteasome in yeast,
where a small number of complexes dominate the $k$-cores with large k and have
a decisive effect on the strongest motifs with 6 to 8 nodes. We also present
Zipf plots of counts versus rank. They show broad distributions that are not
power laws, in contrast to the case when disconnected subgraphs are included.