The applications of wireless power transfer technology to wireless
communications can help build a wireless powered communication network (WPCN)
with larger throughput, higher robustness, and increased flexibility compared
to the conventional battery-powered network. However, due to the fundamental
differences in wireless information and power transmissions, many important
aspects of conventional battery-powered wireless communication networks need to
be redesigned for efficient operations of WPCNs. In this paper, we study the
node placement optimization problem in WPCNs, where the wireless devices (WDs)
harvest the radio frequency energy transferred by dedicated energy nodes (ENs)
in the downlink, and use the harvested energy to transmit data to information
access points (APs) in the uplink. In particular, we are interested in
minimizing the network deployment cost with minimum number of ENs and APs by
optimizing their locations, while satisfying the energy harvesting and
communication performance requirements of the WDs. Specifically, we first study
the minimum-cost placement problem when the ENs and APs are separately located,
where an alternating optimization method is proposed to jointly optimize the
locations of ENs and APs. Based on the obtained results, we further study the
placement optimization when each pair of EN and AP are co-located and
integrated as a hybrid access point, and propose an efficient algorithm to
solve this problem. Simulation results show that the proposed methods can
effectively reduce the network deployment cost and yet guarantee the given
performance requirements, which is a key consideration in the future
applications of WPCNs.