We study the feasibility of cognitive radio (CR) communication in the
presence of a $K$-user multi-input multi-output (MIMO) interference channel as
the primary network. Assuming that the primary interference network has unused
spatial degrees of freedom (DoFs), we first investigate the sufficient
condition on the number of antennas at the secondary transmitter under which
the secondary system can communicate while causing no interference to the
primary receivers. We show that, to maximize the benefit, the secondary
transmitter should have at least the same number of antennas as the spatial
DoFs of the primary system. We then derive the secondary precoding and decoding
matrices to have zero interference leakage into the primary network while the
signal-to-interference plus noise ratio (SINR) at the secondary receiver is
maximized. As the success of the secondary communication depends on the
availability of unused DoFs, we then propose a fast sensing method based on the
eigenvalue analysis of the received signal covariance matrix to determine the
availability of unused DoFs or equivalently spatial holes. Since the proposed
fast sensing method cannot identify the indices of inactive primary streams, we
also provide a fine sensing method based on the generalized likelihood ratio
test (GLRT) to decide the absence of individual primary streams. Simulation
results show that the proposed CR sensing and transmission scheme can, in
practice, provide a significant throughput while causing no interference to the
primary receivers, and that the sensing detects the spatial holes of the
primary network with high detection probability.