This paper is devoted to the investigation of the origin and mechanism of
randomization in late boundary layer transition over a flat plate without
pressure gradient. The flow randomization is a crucial phase before flow
transition to the turbulent state. According to existing literatures, the
randomization was caused by the big background noises and non-periodic spanwise
boundary conditions. It was assumed that the large ring structure is affected
by background noises first, and then the change of large ring structure affects
the small length scales quickly, which directly leads to randomization and
formation of turbulence. However, by careful analysis of our high order DNS
results, we believe that the internal instability of multiple ring cycles
structure is the main reason. What we observed is that randomization begins
when the third cycle overlaps the first and second cycles. A significant
asymmetric phenomenon is originated from the second cycle in the middle of both
streamwise and spanwise directions. More technically, a visible asymmetric
phenomenon in the middle vortex ring cycle starts at time step t=16.25T and
x=838.9{\delta}in where the top and bottom level rings are still completely
symmetric. The non-symmetric structure of middle level ring affects the small
length scale in boundary layer bottom quickly. The randomization phenomenon
spreads to top level through ejections. Finally, the whole flow domain becomes
randomized. A hypothesis of C- and K-types shift is given as a possible
mechanism of flow randomization.