The rapid e-commerce growth has made both business community and customers
face a new situation. Due to intense competition on one hand and the customer's
option to choose from several alternatives business community has realized the
necessity of intelligent marketing strategies and relationship management. Web
usage mining attempts to discover useful knowledge from the secondary data
obtained from the interactions of the users with the Web. Web usage mining has
become very critical for effective Web site management, creating adaptive Web
sites, business and support services, personalization, network traffic flow
analysis and so on. The study of ant colonies behavior and their
self-organizing capabilities is of interest to knowledge retrieval/management
and decision support systems sciences, because it provides models of
distributed adaptive organization, which are useful to solve difficult
optimization, classification, and distributed control problems, among others.
In this paper, we propose an ant clustering algorithm to discover Web usage
patterns (data clusters) and a linear genetic programming approach to analyze
the visitor trends. Empirical results clearly shows that ant colony clustering
performs well when compared to a self-organizing map (for clustering Web usage
patterns) even though the performance accuracy is not that efficient when
comparared to evolutionary-fuzzy clustering (i-miner) approach. KEYWORDS: Web
Usage Mining, Swarm Intelligence, Ant Systems, Stigmergy, Data-Mining, Linear
Genetic Programming.