Flow between concentric spheres of radius ratio $\eta =
r_\mathrm{i}/r_\mathrm{o} = 0.35$ is studied in a 3 m outer diameter
experiment. We have measured the torques required to maintain constant boundary
speeds as well as localized wall shear stress, velocity, and pressure. At low
Ekman number $E = 2.1\times10^{-7}$ and modest Rossby number $0.07 < Ro < 3.4$,
the resulting flow is highly turbulent, with a Reynolds number ($Re=Ro/E$)
exceeding fifteen million. Several turbulent flow regimes are evident as $Ro$
is varied for fixed $E$. We focus our attention on one flow transition in
particular, between $Ro = 1.8$ and $Ro = 2.6$, where the flow shows bistable
behavior. For $Ro$ within this range, the flow undergoes intermittent
transitions between the states observed alone at adjacent $Ro$ outside the
switching range. The two states are clearly distinguished in all measured flow
quantities, including a striking reduction in torque demanded from the inner
sphere by the state lying at higher $Ro$. The reduced angular momentum
transport appears to be associated with the development of a fast zonal
circulation near the experiment core. The lower torque state exhibits waves,
one of which is similar to an inertial mode known for a full sphere, and
another which appears to be a strongly advected Rossby-type wave. These results
represent a new laboratory example of the overlapping existence of distinct
flow states in high Reynolds number flow. Turbulent multiple stability and the
resilience of transport barriers associated with zonal flows are important
topics in geophysical and astrophysical contexts.