The high-level contribution of this paper is a simulation-based analysis to
evaluate the tradeoffs between lifetime and hop count of link-disjoint,
node-disjoint and zone-disjoint multi-path routes vis-\`a-vis single-path
minimum hop routes for mobile ad hoc networks. The link-disjoint, node-disjoint
and zone-disjoint algorithms proposed in this paper can be used to arrive at
benchmarks for the time between successive multi-path route discoveries, the
number of disjoint paths per multi-path set and the hop count per multi-path
set. We assume a multi-path set exists as long as at least one path in the set
exists. Simulation results indicate that the number of zone-disjoint paths per
multi-path set can be at most 2, which is far lower than the number of node and
link-disjoint paths available per multi-path set. Also, the time between
zone-disjoint multi-path discoveries would be far lower than the time between
node and link-disjoint multi-path route discoveries and can be at most 45% more
than the time between single minimum-hop path route discoveries. However, there
is no appreciable difference in the average hop counts per zone-disjoint,
node-disjoint and link-disjoint multi-path sets and it can be only at most 15%
more than the average minimum hop count determined using single-path routing.
We also observe that even though the number of link-disjoint paths per
multi-path set can be as large as 35-78% more than the number of node-disjoint
paths per multi-path set, the time between two successive link-disjoint
multi-path discoveries can be at most 15-25% more than the time between two
successive node-disjoint multi-path discoveries, without any significant
difference in the hop count per multi-path set.