Results from a photometric search for extrasolar planetary transits across
the eclipsing binary CM Dra are presented. The TEP (Transits of Extrasolar
Planets) network has observed this star since 1994, and a lightcurve with 617
hours of coverage has been obtained. The data give a complete phase coverage of
the CM Dra system at each of the 3 years of observations, with a noise of less
than 5 mmag. New epoch and period values for CM Dra are derived, and a low
flare rate of 0.025/hr has been confirmed. The absence of periodic variations
in eclipse minimum times excludes the presence of very massive planets with
periods of less than a few years. The lightcurve was visually scanned for the
presence of unusual events which may be indicative of transits of extrasolar
planets with 'massive earth' sizes. Six suspicious events were found which are
being followed up for future transits, by planets with sizes between 1.5 and
2.5 RE (Earth Radii). However, none of these events has amplitudes compatible
with planets larger than 2.5 RE. Coplanar planets larger than 2.5 RE and with
orbital periods of less than 60 days can therefore be ruled out with a
confidence of about 80%. Planets smaller than 1.5 RE cannot be detected in the
data without a sub-noise detection algorithm. A preliminary signal detection
analysis shows that there is a 50% detection confidence for 2 RE planets with a
period from 10 to 30 days with the current data. This data-set demonstrates
that it is possible to detect terrestrial sized planets with ground based
photometry, and that strong constraints on the sizes of planets orbiting in the
plane of the CM Dra system can be set.