The Virtual Rooms Videoconferencing Service (VRVS) provides a worldwide
videoconferencing service and collaborative environment to the research and
education communities. This system provides a low cost, bandwidth-efficient,
extensible means for videoconferencing and remote collaboration over networks
within the High Energy and Nuclear Physics communities (HENP). VRVS has become
a standard part of the toolset used daily by a large sector of HENP, and it is
used increasingly for other DoE/NSF-supported programs. The current features
included multi-protocol, multi-OS support for all significant video enabled
clients including: H.323, Mbone, QuickTime, MPEG2, Java Media Framework, and
other clients. The current architecture makes VRVS a distributed, highly
functional, and efficient software-only system for multipoint audio, video and
web conferencing and collaboration over global IP networks. VRVS has developed
the VRVS-AG Reflector and a specialized Web interface that enables end users to
connect to any Access Grid (AG) session, in any of the AG "virtual venues" from
anywhere worldwide. The VRVS system has now been running for the last five and
half years, offering to the HENP community a working and reliable tool for
collaboration within groups and among physicists dispersed world-wide. The goal
of this ongoing effort is to develop the next generation collaborative systems
running over next generation networks. The new developments area integrate
emerging standards, include all security aspects, and will extend the range of
VRVS video technologies supported to cover the latest high end standards
quality. We will focus the discussion on the new capability provides by the
latest version V3.0 and its future evolution.