We study horizontal supergranule-scale motions revealed by TRACE observation
of the chromospheric emission, and investigate the coupling between the
chromosphere and the underlying photosphere. A highly e?cient feature-tracking
technique called balltracking has been applied for the first time to the image
sequences obtained by TRACE (Transition Region and Coronal Explorer) in the
passband of white light and the three ultraviolet passbands centered at 1700
{\AA}, 1600 {\AA}, and 1550 {\AA}. The resulting velocity fields have been
spatially smoothed and temporally averaged in order to reveal horizontal
supergranule-scale motions that may exist at the emission heights of these
passbands. We find indeed a high correlation between the horizontal velocities
derived in the white-light and ultraviolet passbands. The horizontal velocities
derived from the chromospheric and photospheric emission are comparable in
magnitude. The horizontal motions derived in the UV passbands might indicate
the existence of a supergranule-scale magnetoconvection in the chromosphere,
which may shed new light on the study of mass and energy supply to the corona
and solar wind at the height of the chromosphere. However, it is also possible
that the apparent motions reflect the chromospheric brightness evolution as
produced by acoustic shocks which might be modulated by the photospheric
granular motions in their excitation process, or advected partly by the
supergranule-scale flow towards the network while propagating upward from the
photosphere. To reach a firm conclusion, it is necessary to investigate the
role of granular motions in the excitation of shocks through numerical
modeling, and future high-cadence chromospheric magnetograms must be
scrutinized.