Recent observations of Krucker & Benz (1998) give strong support to Parker's
hypothesis (Parker 1988) that small scale dissipative events make the main
contribution to quiet Sun coronal heating. They also showed that these small
scale events are associated not only with the magnetic network, but also with
the cell interiors (Benz & Krucker, 1998). Taking into account in addition the
results of the analysis performed by Priest with co-contributors (Priest et al.
2000) who demonstrated that the heating is quasi-homogeneous along the arcs we
come to the conclusion that the sources driving these dissipative events are
also small scale sources. Typically they are of the order of or smaller than
the linear scale of the events observed, that is smaller than 2000 km. To
describe statistical properties of quiet Sun corona heating by microflares,
nanoflares, and even smaller events, we consider a cellular automata model
subject to uniform small scale driving and dissipation. The model consists of
two elements, the magnetic field source supposed to be associated with the
small scale hydrodynamic turbulence convected from the photosphere and local
dissipation of small scale currents. The dissipation is assumed to be provided
by either anomalous resistivity, when the current density exceeds a certain
threshold value, or by the magnetic reconnection. The main problem considered
is how the statistical characteristics of dissipated energy flow depend upon
characteristics of the magnetic field source and on physical mechanism
responsible for the magnetic field dissipation. As the threshold value of
current is increased, we observe the transition from Gaussian statistics to
power-law type. In addition, we find that the dissipation provided by
reconnection results in stronger deviations from Gaussian distribution.