Recently, a rigorous yet concise formula has been derived to evaluate the
information flow, and hence the causality in a quantitative sense, between time
series. To assess the importance of a resulting causality, it needs to be
normalized. The normalization is achieved through distinguishing three types of
fundamental mechanisms that govern the marginal entropy change of the flow
recipient. A normalized or relative flow measures its importance relative to
other mechanisms. In analyzing realistic series, both absolute and relative
information flows need to be taken into account, since the normalizers for a
pair of reverse flows belong to two different entropy balances; it is quite
normal that two identical flows may differ a lot in relative importance in
their respective balances. We have reproduced these results with several
autoregressive models. We have also shown applications to a climate change
problem and a financial analysis problem. For the former, reconfirmed is the
role of the Indian Ocean Dipole as an uncertainty source to the El Ni\~no
prediction. This might partly account for the unpredictability of certain
aspects of El Ni\~no that has led to the recent portentous but spurious
forecasts of the 2014 "Monster El Ni\~no". For the latter, an unusually strong
one-way causality has been identified from IBM (International Business Machines
Corporation) to GE (General Electric Company) in their early era, revealing to
us an old story, which has almost gone to oblivion, about "Seven Dwarfs"
competing a giant for the mainframe computer market.