The turbulence field is stacked on the laminar flow. In this research, the
laminar flow is described as a macro deformation which forms an instant
curvature space. On such a curvature space, the turbulence is viewed as a micro
deformation. So, the fluid flow is described by the geometrical field theory of
finite deformation. Based on the Lagrange mechanics and the deformation energy
concept, using the Least Action Principle, the Euler-Lagrange motion equations
are obtained. According to A E Green formulation, the stress concept is
introduced by deformation tensor. The fluid motion is described by the
multiplication of a macro deformation tensor and a micro deformation tensor. By
this way, the geometrical field of fluid motion is well constructed. Then, the
spatial derivative of deformation energy is expressed by the gradient of
deformation tensors. By this way, the deformation energy related items in the
Euler-Lagrange motion equations are expressed by the stress tensor and
deformation tensor. The obtained Euler-Lagrange motion equations, then, are
decomposed into average deformation equations and turbulence equations. For
several special cases, the new results are compared with the conventional
Navier-Stokes equation with Reynolds stress modification.The comparisons also
show that the Bernoulli Equation is a natural precondition for the conventional
Navier-Stokes equation.Generally, the turbulence wave is an inward-traveling
wave. Unlike the normal outward-traveling wave related with the average
deformation, the inward-traveling wave is the intrinsic feature of turbulence.
So, the turbulence is well defined by the equations obtained in this research.
For several typical cases, the simplified turbulence wave equations are given
out with simple discussion.