Network sampling is integral to the analysis of social, information, and
biological networks. Since many real-world networks are massive in size,
continuously evolving, and/or distributed in nature, the network structure is
often sampled in order to facilitate study. For these reasons, a more thorough
and complete understanding of network sampling is critical to support the field
of network science. In this paper, we outline a framework for the general
problem of network sampling, by highlighting the different objectives,
population and units of interest, and classes of network sampling methods. In
addition, we propose a spectrum of computational models for network sampling
methods, ranging from the traditionally studied model based on the assumption
of a static domain to a more challenging model that is appropriate for
streaming domains. We design a family of sampling methods based on the concept
of graph induction that generalize across the full spectrum of computational
models (from static to streaming) while efficiently preserving many of the
topological properties of the input graphs. Furthermore, we demonstrate how
traditional static sampling algorithms can be modified for graph streams for
each of the three main classes of sampling methods: node, edge, and
topology-based sampling. Our experimental results indicate that our proposed
family of sampling methods more accurately preserves the underlying properties
of the graph for both static and streaming graphs. Finally, we study the impact
of network sampling algorithms on the parameter estimation and performance
evaluation of relational classification algorithms.