A key aim of systems biology is the reconstruction of molecular networks,
however we do not yet have networks that integrate information from all
datasets available for a particular clinical condition. This is in part due to
the limited scalability, in terms of required computational time and power, of
existing algorithms. Network reconstruction methods should also be scalable in
the sense of allowing scientists from different backgrounds to efficiently
integrate additional data. We present a network model of acute myeloid leukemia
(AML). In the current version (AML 2.1) we have used gene expression data (both
microarray and RNA-seq) from five different studies comprising a total of 771
AML samples and a protein-protein interactions dataset. Our scalable network
reconstruction method is in part based on the well-known property of gene
expression correlation among interacting molecules. The difficulty of
distinguishing between direct and indirect interactions is addressed optimizing
the coefficient of variation of gene expression, using a validated gold
standard dataset of direct interactions. Computational time is much reduced
compared to other network reconstruction methods. A key feature is the study of
the reproducibility of interactions found in independent clinical datasets. An
analysis of the most significant clusters, and of the network properties
(intraset efficiency, degree, betweenness centrality and PageRank) of common
AML mutations demonstrated the biological significance of the network. A
statistical analysis of the response of blast cells from eleven AML patients to
a library of kinase inhibitors provided an experimental validation of the
network. A combination of network and experimental data identified CDK1, CDK2,
CDK4 and CDK6 and other kinases as potential therapeutic targets in AML.