We present a Bayesian probabilistic model to estimate the brain white matter
atlas from high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) data. This model
incorporates a shape prior of the white matter anatomy and the likelihood of
individual observed HARDI datasets. We first assume that the atlas is generated
from a known hyperatlas through a flow of diffeomorphisms and its shape prior
can be constructed based on the framework of large deformation diffeomorphic
metric mapping (LDDMM). LDDMM characterizes a nonlinear diffeomorphic shape
space in a linear space of initial momentum uniquely determining diffeomorphic
geodesic flows from the hyperatlas. Therefore, the shape prior of the HARDI
atlas can be modeled using a centered Gaussian random field (GRF) model of the
initial momentum. In order to construct the likelihood of observed HARDI
datasets, it is necessary to study the diffeomorphic transformation of
individual observations relative to the atlas and the probabilistic
distribution of orientation distribution functions (ODFs). To this end, we
construct the likelihood related to the transformation using the same
construction as discussed for the shape prior of the atlas. The probabilistic
distribution of ODFs is then constructed based on the ODF Riemannian manifold.
We assume that the observed ODFs are generated by an exponential map of random
tangent vectors at the deformed atlas ODF. Hence, the likelihood of the ODFs
can be modeled using a GRF of their tangent vectors in the ODF Riemannian
manifold. We solve for the maximum a posteriori using the
Expectation-Maximization algorithm and derive the corresponding update
equations. Finally, we illustrate the HARDI atlas constructed based on a
Chinese aging cohort of 94 adults and compare it with that generated by
averaging the coefficients of spherical harmonics of the ODF across subjects.