In order to understand whether, and to what extent, spectral representation
can effectively highlight the nonlinear interaction among different scales, it
is necessary to consider the state that precedes the onset of instabilities and
turbulence in flows. In this condition, a system is still stable, but is
however subject to a swarming of arbitrary 3D small perturbations. These can
arrive any instant, and then undergo a transient evolution which is ruled out
by the initial-value problem associated to the Navier-Stokes linearized
formulation. The set of 3D small perturbations constitutes a system of multiple
spatial and temporal scales which are subject to all the processes included in
the perturbative Navier-Stokes equations: linearized convective transport,
linearized vortical stretching and tilting, and the molecular diffusion.
Leaving aside nonlinear interaction among the different scales, these features
are tantamount to the features of the turbulent state. We determine the
exponent of the inertial range of arbitrary longitudinal and transversal
perturbations acting on a typical shear flow, i.e. the bluff-body wake. Then,
we compare the present results with the exponent of the corresponding developed
turbulent state (notoriously equal to -5/3). For longitudinal perturbations, we
observe a decay rate of -3 in the inertial range, typically met in
two-dimensional turbulence. For purely 3D perturbations, instead, the energy
decreases with a factor of -5/3. If we consider a combination of longitudinal
and transversal perturbative waves, the energy spectrum seems to have a decay
of -3 for larger wavenumbers ([50, 100]), while for smaller wavenumbers
([3,50]) the decay is of the order -5/3. We can conclude that the value of the
exponent of the inertial range has a much higher level of universality, which
is not necessarily associated to the nonlinear interaction.