A recent approach in modeling and analysis of the supply and demand in
heterogeneous wireless cellular networks has been the use of two independent
Poisson point processes (PPPs) for the locations of base stations (BSs) and
user equipments (UEs). This popular approach has two major shortcomings. First,
although the PPP model may be a fitting one for the BS locations, it is less
adequate for the UE locations mainly due to the fact that the model is not
adjustable (tunable) to represent the severity of the heterogeneity
(non-uniformity) in the UE locations. Besides, the independence assumption
between the two PPPs does not capture the often-observed correlation between
the UE and BS locations.
  This paper presents a novel heterogeneous spatial traffic modeling which
allows statistical adjustment. Simple and non-parameterized, yet sufficiently
accurate, measures for capturing the traffic characteristics in space are
introduced. Only two statistical parameters related to the UE distribution,
namely, the coefficient of variation (the normalized second-moment), of an
appropriately defined inter-UE distance measure, and correlation coefficient
(the normalized cross-moment) between UE and BS locations, are adjusted to
control the degree of heterogeneity and the bias towards the BS locations,
respectively. This model is used in heterogeneous wireless cellular networks
(HetNets) to demonstrate the impact of heterogeneous and BS-correlated traffic
on the network performance. This network is called HetHetNet since it has two
types of heterogeneity: heterogeneity in the infrastructure (supply), and
heterogeneity in the spatial traffic distribution (demand).