This paper extends our recent theoretical work concerning the feasibility of
stable and accurate computation of turbulence using a large eddy simulation
[Ida and Taniguchi, Phys. Rev. E 68, 036705 (2003)]. In our previous paper, it
was shown, based on a simple assumption regarding the instantaneous streamwise
velocity, that the application of the Gaussian filter to the incompressible
Navier-Stokes equations can result in the appearance of a numerically unstable
term that can be decomposed into positive and negative viscosities. That result
raises the question as to whether an accurate solution can be achieved by a
numerically stable subgrid-scale model. In the present paper, based on
assumptions regarding the statistically averaged velocity, we present similar
theoretical investigations to show that in several situations, the shears
appearing in the statistically averaged velocity field numerically destabilize
the fluctuation components because of the derivation of a numerically unstable
term that represents negative diffusion in a fixed direction. This finding can
explain the problematic numerical instability that has been encountered in
large eddy simulations of wall-bounded flows. The present result suggests that
this numerical problem is universal in large eddy simulations, and that if
there is no failure in modeling, the resulting subgrid-scale model can still
have unstable characteristics; that is, the known instability problems of
several existing subgrid-scale models are not something that one may remove
simply by an artificial technique, but must be taken seriously so as to treat
them accurately.