I consider the hydrodynamic stability of imploding gases as a model for
inertial confinement fusion capsules, sonoluminescent bubbles and the
gravitational collapse of astrophysical gases. For oblate modes under a
homologous flow, a monatomic gas is governed by the Schwarzschild criterion for
buoyant stability. Under buoyantly unstable conditions, fluctuations experience
power-law growth in time, with a growth rate that depends upon mean flow
gradients and is independent of mode number. If the flow accelerates throughout
the implosion, oblate modes amplify by a factor (2C)^(|N0| ti)$, where C is the
convergence ratio of the implosion, N0 is the initial buoyancy frequency and ti
is the implosion time scale. If, instead, the implosion consists of a coasting
phase followed by stagnation, oblate modes amplify by a factor exp(pi |N0| ts),
where N0 is the buoyancy frequency at stagnation and ts is the stagnation time
scale. Even under stable conditions, vorticity fluctuations grow due to the
conservation of angular momentum as the gas is compressed. For non-monatomic
gases, this results in weak oscillatory growth under conditions that would
otherwise be buoyantly stable; this over-stability is consistent with the
conservation of wave action in the fluid frame. By evolving the complete set of
linear equations, it is demonstrated that oblate modes are the fastest-growing
modes and that high mode numbers are required to reach this limit (Legendre
mode l > 100 for spherical flows). Finally, comparisons are made with a
Lagrangian hydrodynamics code, and it is found that a numerical resolution of
~30 zones per wavelength is required to capture these solutions accurately.
This translates to an angular resolution of ~(12/l) degrees, or < 0.1 degree to
resolve the fastest-growing modes.