We investigate the effects of rotation on the evolution of the Parker
instability in an exponentially-stratified and uniformly-rotating magnetized
gas disk by carrying out three-dimensional numerical simulations with an
isothermal magnetohydrodynamic code. The instability has been initialized by
random velocity perturbations. In the linear stage, the evolution is not much
different from that without rotation and the mixed (undular + interchange) mode
regulates the system. The interchange mode induces alternating dense and
rarefied regions with small radial wavelengths, while the undular mode bends
the magnetic field lines in the plane of azimuthal and vertical directions. In
the nonlinear stage, flow motion overall becomes chaotic as in the case without
rotation. However, as the gas in higher positions slides down along field lines
forming supersonic flows, the Coriolis force becomes important. As oppositely
directed flows fall into valleys along both sides of magnetic field lines, they
experience the Coriolis force toward opposite directions, which twists magnetic
field lines there. Hence, we suggest that the Coriolis force plays a role in
randomizing magnetic field. The three-dimensional density structure formed by
the instability is still sheet-like with the short dimension along the radial
direction, as in the case without rotation. However, the long dimension is now
slightly tilted with respect to the mean field direction. The shape of high
density regions is a bit rounder. The maximum enhancement factor of the
vertical column density relative to its initial value is about 1.5, which is
smaller than that in the case without rotation. We conclude that uniform
rotation doesn't change our point of view that the Parker instability alone is
not a viable mechanism for the formation of giant molecular clouds.