Many real-world networks are so large that we must simplify their structure
before we can extract useful information about the systems they represent. As
the tools for doing these simplifications proliferate within the network
literature, researchers would benefit from some guidelines about which of the
so-called community detection algorithms are most appropriate for the
structures they are studying and the questions they are asking. Here we show
that different methods highlight different aspects of a network's structure and
that the the sort of information that we seek to extract about the system must
guide us in our decision. For example, many community detection algorithms,
including the popular modularity maximization approach, infer module
assignments from an underlying model of the network formation process. However,
we are not always as interested in how a system's network structure was formed,
as we are in how a network's extant structure influences the system's behavior.
To see how structure influences current behavior, we will recognize that links
in a network induce movement across the network and result in system-wide
interdependence. In doing so, we explicitly acknowledge that most networks
carry flow. To highlight and simplify the network structure with respect to
this flow, we use the map equation. We present an intuitive derivation of this
flow-based and information-theoretic method and provide an interactive on-line
application that anyone can use to explore the mechanics of the map equation.
We also describe an algorithm and provide source code to efficiently decompose
large weighted and directed networks based on the map equation.