The "developmental hourglass" describes a pattern of increasing morphological
divergence towards earlier and later embryonic development, separated by a
period of significant conservation across distant species (the "phylotypic
stage"). Recent studies have found evidence in support of the hourglass effect
at the genomic level. For instance, the phylotypic stage expresses the oldest
and most conserved transcriptomes. However, the regulatory mechanism that
causes the hourglass pattern remains an open question. Here, we use an
evolutionary model of regulatory gene interactions during development to
identify the conditions under which the hourglass effect can emerge in a
general setting. The model focuses on the hierarchical gene regulatory network
that controls the developmental process, and on the evolution of a population
under random perturbations in the structure of that network. The model
predicts, under fairly general assumptions, the emergence of an hourglass
pattern in the structure of a temporal representation of the underlying gene
regulatory network. The evolutionary age of the corresponding genes also
follows an hourglass pattern, with the oldest genes concentrated at the
hourglass waist. The key behind the hourglass effect is that developmental
regulators should have an increasingly specific function as development
progresses. Analysis of developmental gene expression profiles from Drosophila
melanogaster and Arabidopsis thaliana provide consistent results with our
theoretical predictions.