Collective motion of self-propelled organisms or synthetic particles often
termed active fluid has attracted enormous attention in broad scientific
community because of it fundamentally non-equilibrium nature. Energy input and
interactions among the moving units and the medium lead to complex dynamics.
Here we introduce a new class of active matter, living liquid crystals (LLCs)
that combine living swimming bacteria with a lyotropic liquid crystal. The
physical properties of LLCs can be controlled by the amount of oxygen available
to bacteria, by concentration of ingredients, or by temperature. Our studies
reveal a wealth of new intriguing dynamic phenomena, caused by the coupling
between the activity-triggered flow and long-range orientational order of the
medium. Among these are (a) non-linear trajectories of bacterial motion guided
by non-uniform director, (b) local melting of the liquid crystal caused by the
bacteria-produced shear flows, (c) activity-triggered transition from a
non-flowing uniform state into a flowing one-dimensional periodic pattern and
its evolution into a turbulent array of topological defects, (d)
birefringence-enabled visualization of microflow generated by the
nanometers-thick bacterial flagella. Unlike their isotropic counterpart, the
LLCs show collective dynamic effects at very low volume fraction of bacteria,
on the order of 0.2%. Our work suggests an unorthodox design concept to control
and manipulate the dynamic behavior of soft active matter and opens the door
for potential biosensing and biomedical applications.