We consider the problem of energy-efficient transmission in delay constrained
cooperative multihop wireless networks. The combinatorial nature of cooperative
multihop schemes makes it difficult to design efficient polynomial-time
algorithms for deciding which nodes should take part in cooperation, and when
and with what power they should transmit. In this work, we tackle this problem
in memoryless networks with or without delay constraints, i.e., quality of
service guarantee. We analyze a wide class of setups, including unicast,
multicast, and broadcast, and two main cooperative approaches, namely: energy
accumulation (EA) and mutual information accumulation (MIA). We provide a
generalized algorithmic formulation of the problem that encompasses all those
cases. We investigate the similarities and differences of EA and MIA in our
generalized formulation. We prove that the broadcast and multicast problems
are, in general, not only NP hard but also o(log(n)) inapproximable. We break
these problems into three parts: ordering, scheduling and power control, and
propose a novel algorithm that, given an ordering, can optimally solve the
joint power allocation and scheduling problems simultaneously in polynomial
time. We further show empirically that this algorithm used in conjunction with
an ordering derived heuristically using the Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm
yields near-optimal performance in typical settings. For the unicast case, we
prove that although the problem remains NP hard with MIA, it can be solved
optimally and in polynomial time when EA is used. We further use our algorithm
to study numerically the trade-off between delay and power-efficiency in
cooperative broadcast and compare the performance of EA vs MIA as well as the
performance of our cooperative algorithm with a smart noncooperative algorithm
in a broadcast setting.