In the big data era, scalability has become a crucial requirement for any
useful computational model. Probabilistic graphical models are very useful for
mining and discovering data insights, but they are not scalable enough to be
suitable for big data problems. Bayesian Networks particularly demonstrate this
limitation when their data is represented using few random variables while each
random variable has a massive set of values. With hierarchical data - data that
is arranged in a treelike structure with several levels - one would expect to
see hundreds of thousands or millions of values distributed over even just a
small number of levels. When modeling this kind of hierarchical data across
large data sets, Bayesian networks become infeasible for representing the
probability distributions for the following reasons: i) Each level represents a
single random variable with hundreds of thousands of values, ii) The number of
levels is usually small, so there are also few random variables, and iii) The
structure of the network is predefined since the dependency is modeled top-down
from each parent to each of its child nodes, so the network would contain a
single linear path for the random variables from each parent to each child
node. In this paper we present a scalable probabilistic graphical model to
overcome these limitations for massive hierarchical data. We believe the
proposed model will lead to an easily-scalable, more readable, and expressive
implementation for problems that require probabilistic-based solutions for
massive amounts of hierarchical data. We successfully applied this model to
solve two different challenging probabilistic-based problems on massive
hierarchical data sets for different domains, namely, bioinformatics and latent
semantic discovery over search logs.