An explanation is presented for the rather strong total surface differential
rotation of the observed very young solar-type stars like AB Dor and PZ Tel.
Due to its rapid rotation a nonuniform energy flux leaves the stellar core so
that the outer convection zone is nonuniformly heated from below. Due to this
`gravity darkening' of the equator a meridional flow is created flowing
equatorwards at the surface and thus accelerating the equatorial rotation. The
effect linearly grows with the normalized pole-equator difference, \epsilon, of
the heat-flux at the bottom of the convection zone. A rotation rate of about 9
h leads to \epsilon=0.1 for a solar-type star. In this case the resulting
equator-pole differences of the angular velocity at the stellar surface,
\delta\Omega, varies from unobservable 0.005/day to the (desired) value of 0.03
day$^{-1}$ when the dimensionless diffusivity factors $c_\nu$ and c_\chi vary
between 1 and 0.1 (standard value c_\nu \simeq c_\chi \simeq 0.3, see Table 1.)
In all cases the related temperature differences between pole and equator at
the surface are unobservably small.
  The (clockwise) meridional circulation which we obtain flows opposite to the
(counterclockwise) circulation appearing as a byproduct in the \Lambda-theory
of the nonuniform rotation in outer convection zones. The consequences of this
situation for those dynamo theories of stellar activity are discussed which
work with the meridional circulation as the dominant magnetic-advection effect
in latitude to produce the solar-like form of the butterfly diagram.
  Key words: Hydrodynamics, Star: rotation, Stars: pre-main sequence, Stellar
activity