In a communication network, point-to-point traffic volumes over time are
critical for designing protocols that route information efficiently and for
maintaining security, whether at the scale of an internet service provider or
within a corporation. While technically feasible, the direct measurement of
point-to-point traffic imposes a heavy burden on network performance and is
typically not implemented. Instead, indirect aggregate traffic volumes are
routinely collected. We consider the problem of estimating point-to-point
traffic volumes, x_t, from aggregate traffic volumes, y_t, given information
about the network routing protocol encoded in a matrix A. This estimation task
can be reformulated as finding the solutions to a sequence of ill-posed linear
inverse problems, y_t = A x_t, since the number of origin-destination routes of
interest is higher than the number of aggregate measurements available.
  Here, we introduce a novel multilevel state-space model of aggregate traffic
volumes with realistic features. We implement a naive strategy for estimating
unobserved point-to-point traffic volumes from indirect measurements of
aggregate traffic, based on particle filtering. We then develop a more
efficient two-stage inference strategy that relies on model-based
regularization: a simple model is used to calibrate regularization parameters
that lead to efficient and scalable inference in the multilevel state-space
model. We apply our methods to corporate and academic networks, where we show
that the proposed inference strategy outperforms existing approaches and scales
to larger networks. We also design a simulation study to explore the factors
that influence the performance. Our results suggest that model-based
regularization may be an efficient strategy for inference in other complex
multilevel models.