The number of triangles is a computationally expensive graph statistic which
is frequently used in complex network analysis (e.g., transitivity ratio), in
various random graph models (e.g., exponential random graph model) and in
important real world applications such as spam detection, uncovering of the
hidden thematic structure of the Web and link recommendation. Counting
triangles in graphs with millions and billions of edges requires algorithms
which run fast, use small amount of space, provide accurate estimates of the
number of triangles and preferably are parallelizable.
  In this paper we present an efficient triangle counting algorithm which can
be adapted to the semistreaming model. The key idea of our algorithm is to
combine the sampling algorithm of Tsourakakis et al. and the partitioning of
the set of vertices into a high degree and a low degree subset respectively as
in the Alon, Yuster and Zwick work treating each set appropriately. We obtain a
running time $O \left(m + \frac{m^{3/2} \Delta \log{n}}{t \epsilon^2} \right)$
and an $\epsilon$ approximation (multiplicative error), where $n$ is the number
of vertices, $m$ the number of edges and $\Delta$ the maximum number of
triangles an edge is contained.
  Furthermore, we show how this algorithm can be adapted to the semistreaming
model with space usage $O\left(m^{1/2}\log{n} + \frac{m^{3/2} \Delta \log{n}}{t
\epsilon^2} \right)$ and a constant number of passes (three) over the graph
stream. We apply our methods in various networks with several millions of edges
and we obtain excellent results. Finally, we propose a random projection based
method for triangle counting and provide a sufficient condition to obtain an
estimate with low variance.