The transport properties of a random velocity field with Kolmogorov spectrum
and time correlations defined along Lagrangian trajectories are analyzed. The
analysis is carried on in the limit of short correlation times, as a
perturbation theory in the ratio, scale by scale, of the eddy decay and
turn-over time. Various quantities such as the Batchelor constant and the
dimensionless constants entering the expression for particle relative and
self-diffusion are given in terms of this ratio and of the Kolmogorov constant.
Particular attention is paid to particles with finite inertia. The
self-diffusion properties of a particle with Stokes time longer than the
Kolmogorov time are determined, verifying on an analytical example the
dimensional results of [nlin.CD/0103018]. Expressions for the fluid velocity
Lagrangian correlations and correlation times along a solid particle
trajectory, are provided in several parameter regimes, including the infinite
Stokes time limit corresponding to Eulerian correlations. The concentration
fluctuation spectrum and the non-ergodic properties of a suspension of heavy
particles in a turbulent flow, in the same regime, are analyzed. The
concentration spectrum is predicted to obey, above the scale of eddies with
lifetime equal to the Stokes time, a power law with universal -4/3 exponent,
and to be otherwise independent of the nature of the turbulent flow. A
preference of the solid particle to lie in less energetic regions of the flow
is observed.