Recently Segev et al. (Phys. Rev. E 64,2001, Phys.Rev.Let. 88, 2002) made
long-term observations of spontaneous activity of in-vitro cortical networks,
which differ from predictions of current models in many features. In this paper
we generalize the EI cortical model introduced in a previous paper (S.Scarpetta
et al. Neural Comput. 14, 2002), including intrinsic white noise and analyzing
effects of noise on the spontaneous activity of the nonlinear system, in order
to account for the experimental results of Segev et al.. Analytically we can
distinguish different regimes of activity, depending from the model parameters.
Using analytical results as a guide line, we perform simulations of the
nonlinear stochastic model in two different regimes, B and C. The Power
Spectrum Density (PSD) of the activity and the Inter-Event-Interval (IEI)
distributions are computed, and compared with experimental results. In regime B
the network shows stochastic resonance phenomena and noise induces aperiodic
collective synchronous oscillations that mimic experimental observations at 0.5
mM Ca concentration. In regime C the model shows spontaneous synchronous
periodic activity that mimic activity observed at 1 mM Ca concentration and the
PSD shows two peaks at the 1st and 2nd harmonics in agreement with experiments
at 1 mM Ca. Moreover (due to intrinsic noise and nonlinear activation function
effects) the PSD shows a broad band peak at low frequency. This feature,
observed experimentally, does not find explanation in the previous models.
Besides we identify parametric changes (namely increase of noise or decreasing
of excitatory connections) that reproduces the fading of periodicity found
experimentally at long times, and we identify a way to discriminate between
those two possible effects measuring experimentally the low frequency PSD.