This paper presents resource management techniques for allocating
communication and computational resources in a distributed stream processing
platform. The platform is designed to exploit the synergy of two classes of
network connections -- dedicated and opportunistic. Previous studies we
conducted have demonstrated the benefits of such bi-modal resource organization
that combines small pools of dedicated computers with a very large pool of
opportunistic computing capacities of idle computers to serve high throughput
computing applications. This paper extends the idea of bi-modal resource
organization into the management of communication resources. Since distributed
stream processing applications demand large volume of data transmission between
processing sites at a consistent rate, adequate control over the network
resources is important to assure a steady flow of processing. The system model
used in this paper is a platform where stream processing servers at distributed
sites are interconnected with a combination of dedicated and opportunistic
communication links. Two pertinent resource allocation problems are analyzed in
details and solved using decentralized algorithms. One is the mapping of the
stream processing tasks on the processing and the communication resources. The
other is the adaptive re-allocation of the opportunistic communication links
due to the variations in their capacities. Overall optimization goal is higher
task throughput and better utilization of the expensive dedicated links. The
evaluation demonstrates that the algorithms are able to exploit the synergy of
bi-modal communication links towards achieving the optimization goals.