The relative Doppler velocities and linewidths in a polar coronal hole and
the nearby quiet-Sun region have been obtained from the {\it Solar and
Heliospheric Observatory} (SOHO)/{\it Coronal Diagnostic Spectrometer} (CDS)
observations using emission lines originating at different heights in the solar
atmosphere from the lower transition region (TR) to the low solar corona. The
observed region is separated into the network and the cell interior and the
behavior of the above parameters were examined in the different regions. It has
been found that the histograms of Doppler velocity and width are generally
broader in the cell interior as compared to the network. The histograms of
Doppler velocities of the network and cell interior do not show significant
difference in most cases. However, in the case of the quiet Sun, the Doppler
velocities of the cell interior are more blueshifted than those of the network
for the lowermost line He {\sc ii} 304 {\AA}, and an opposite behavior is seen
for the uppermost line Mg {\sc ix} 368 {\AA}. The histograms of line width show
that the network--cell difference is more prominent in the coronal hole. The
network has significantly larger linewidth than the cell interior for the
lowermost TR line He {\sc ii} 304 {\AA} for the quiet Sun. For coronal hole,
this is true for the three lower TR lines He {\sc ii} 304 {\AA}, O {\sc iii}
599 {\AA}, and O {\sc v} 630 {\AA}. Also obtained are the correlations between
the relative Doppler velocity and the width. A mild positive correlation is
found for the lowermost transition region line He {\sc ii} 304 {\AA} which
further decreases or become insignificant for the intermediate lines. For the
low coronal line, Mg {\sc ix} 368 {\AA}, the correlation becomes strongly
negative.