In the problem of location anonymity of the events exposed to a global
eavesdropper, we highlight and analyze some aspects that are missing in the
prior work, which is especially relevant for the quality of secure sensing in
delay-intolerant applications monitoring rare and spatially sparse events, and
deployed as large wireless sensor networks with single data collector. We
propose an efficient scheme for generating fake network traffic to disguise the
real event notification. The efficiency of the scheme that provides statistical
source location anonymity is achieved by partitioning network nodes randomly
into several dummy source groups. Members of the same group collectively
emulate both temporal and spatial distribution of the event. Under such
dummy-traffic framework of the source anonymity protection, we aim to better
model the global eavesdropper, especially her way of using statistical tests to
detect the real event, and to present the quality of the location protection as
relative to the adversary's strength. In addition, our approach aims to reduce
the per-event work spent to generate the fake traffic while, most importantly,
providing a guaranteed latency in reporting the event. The latency is
controlled by decoupling the routing from the fake-traffic schedule. A good
dummy source group design also provides a robust protection of event bursts.
This is achieved at the expense of the significant overhead as the number of
dummy source groups must be increased to the reciprocal value of the false
alarm parameter used in the statistical test. We believe that the proposed
source anonymity protection strategy, and the evaluation framework, are well
justified by the abundance of the applications that monitor a rare event with
known temporal statistics, and uniform spatial distribution.