Good quality video services always require higher bandwidth. Hence, to
provide the video services e.g., multicast/broadcast services (MBS) and unicast
services along with the existing voice, internet, and other background traffic
services over the wireless cellular networks, it is required to efficiently
manage the wireless resources in order to reduce the overall forced call
termination probability, to maximize the overall service quality, and to
maximize the revenue. Fixed bandwidth allocation for the MBS sessions either
reduces the quality of the MBS videos and bandwidth utilization or increases
the overall forced call termination probability and of course the handover call
dropping probability as well. Scalable Video Coding (SVC) technique allows the
variable bit rate allocation for the video services. In this paper, we propose
a bandwidth allocation scheme that efficiently allocates bandwidth among the
MBS sessions and the non-MBS traffic calls (e.g., voice, unicast, internet, and
other background traffic). The proposed scheme reduces the bandwidth allocation
for the MBS sessions during the congested traffic condition only to accommodate
more calls in the system. Instead of allocating fixed bandwidths for the BMS
sessions and the non-MBS traffic, our scheme allocates variable bandwidths for
them. However, the minimum quality of the videos is guaranteed by allocating
minimum bandwidth for them. Using the mathematical and numerical analyses, we
show that the proposed scheme maximizes the bandwidth utilization and
significantly reduces the overall forced call termination probability as well
as the handover call dropping probability.