A new generation of "behavior-aware" delay tolerant networks is emerging in
what may define future mobile social networks. With the introduction of novel
behavior-aware protocols, services and architectures, there is a pressing need
to understand and realistically model mobile users behavioral characteristics,
their similarity and clustering. Such models are essential for the analysis,
performance evaluation, and simulation of future DTNs. This paper addresses
issues related to mobile user similarity, its definition, analysis and
modeling. To define similarity, we adopt a behavioral-profile based on users
location preferences using their on-line association matrix and its SVD, then
calculate the behavioral distance to capture user similarity. This measures the
difference of the major spatio-temporal behavioral trends and can be used to
cluster users into similarity groups or communities. We then analyze and
contrast similarity distributions of mobile user populations in two settings:
(i) based on real measurements from four major campuses with over ten thousand
users for a month, and (ii) based on existing mobility models, including random
direction and time-varying community models. Our results show a rich set of
similar communities in real mobile societies with distinct behavioral clusters
of users. This is true for all the traces studied, with the trend being
consistent over time. Surprisingly, however, we find that the existing mobility
models do not explicitly capture similarity and result in homogeneous users
that are all similar to each other. Thus the richness and diversity of user
behavioral patterns is not captured to any degree in the existing models. These
findings strongly suggest that similarity should be explicitly captured in
future mobility models, which motivates the need to re-visit mobility modeling
in the future.