We use global and local helioseismic inversions to explore the prevailing
dynamical balances in the solar Near-Surface Shear Layer (NSSL). The
differential rotation and meridional circulation are intimately linked, with a
common origin in the turbulent stresses of the upper solar convection zone. The
existence and structure of the NSSL cannot be attributed to the conservation of
angular momentum by solar surface convection, as is often supposed. Rather, the
turbulent angular momentum transport accounts for the poleward meridional flow
while the often overlooked meridional force balance maintains the mid-latitude
rotational shear. We suggest that the base of the NSSL is marked by a
transition from baroclinic to turbulent stresses in the meridional plane which
suppress Coriolis-induced circulations that would otherwise establish a
cylindrical rotation profile. The turbulent angular momentum transport must be
non-diffusive and directed radially inward. Inferred mean flows are consistent
with the idea that turbulent convection tends to mix angular momentum but only
if the mixing efficiency is inhomogeneous and/or anisotropic. The latitudinal
and longitudinal components of the estimated turbulent transport are comparable
in amplitude and about an order of magnitude larger than the vertical
component. We estimate that it requires 2--4% of the solar luminosity to
maintain the solar NSSL against the inertia of the mean flow. Most of this
energy is associated with the turbulent transport of angular momentum out of
the layer, with a spin-down time scale of $\sim$ 600 days. We also address
implications of these results for numerical modeling of the NSSL.