This work considers secure transmission protocol for flexible load-balance
control in two-hop relay wireless networks without the information of both
eavesdropper channels and locations. The available secure transmission
protocols via relay cooperation in physical layer secrecy framework cannot
provide a flexible load-balance control, which may significantly limit their
application scopes. This paper extends the conventional works and proposes a
general transmission protocol with considering load-balance control, in which
the relay is randomly selected from the first $k$ preferable assistant relays
located in the circle area with the radius $r$ and the center at the middle
between source and destination (2HR-($r,k$) for short). This protocol covers
the available works as special cases, like ones with the optimal relay
selection ($r=\infty$, $k=1$) and with the random relay selection ($r=\infty$,
$k = n$ i.e. the number of system nodes) in the case of equal path-loss, ones
with relay selected from relay selection region ($r \in (0, \infty), k = 1$) in
the case of distance-dependent path-loss. The theoretic analysis is further
provided to determine the maximum number of eavesdroppers one network can
tolerate to ensure a desired performance in terms of the secrecy outage
probability and transmission outage probability. The analysis results also show
the proposed protocol can balance load distributed among the relays by a proper
setting of $r$ and $k$ under the premise of specified secure and reliable
requirements.