We analyze the global linear stability of the axisymmetric flow around a
spinning bullet-shaped body as a function of the Reynolds number,
$Re=w_{\infty}D/\nu$, and of the rotation parameter $\Omega=\omega D/(2
w_{\infty})$, in the ranges $Re<450$ and $0\leq\Omega\leq 1$. Here,
$w_{\infty}$ and $\omega$ are the free-stream and the body rotation velocities
respectively, and $\nu$ is the fluid kinematic viscosity. The spectrum and the
eigenfunctions obtained allow us to explain the different bifurcations from the
axisymmetric state observed in previous numerical studies. Our results reveal
that three global eigenmodes, denoted Low-Frequency (LF), Medium-Frequency (MF)
and High-Frequency (HF) modes, become unstable in different regions of the
$Re-\Omega$ parameter plane. We provide precise computations of the
corresponding neutral curves, that divide the $Re-\Omega$ plane into four
different regions: the stable axisymmetric flow prevails for small enough
values of $Re$ and $\Omega$, while three different frozen states, where the
wake structures co-rotate with the body at different angular velocities, take
place as a consequence of the destabilization of the LF, MF and HF modes.
Several direct numerical simulations of the nonlinear state associated to the
MF mode, identified here for the first time, are also reported to complement
the linear stability results. Finally, we point out the important fact that,
since the axisymmetric base flow is $SO(2)$-symmetric, the theory of
equivariant bifurcations implies that the weakly non-linear regimes that emerge
close to criticality must necessarily take the form of rotating-wave states.
These states, previously referred to as frozen wakes in the literature, are
thus shown to result from the base-flow symmetry.