We consider the evolution of an incompressible two-dimensional perfect fluid
as the boundary of its domain is deformed in a prescribed fashion. The flow is
taken to be initially steady, and the boundary deformation is assumed to be
slow compared to the fluid motion. The Eulerian flow is found to remain
approximately steady throughout the evolution. At leading order, the velocity
field depends instantaneously on the shape of the domain boundary, and it is
determined by the steadiness and vorticity-preservation conditions. This is
made explicit by reformulating the problem in terms of an area-preserving
diffeomorphism $\gL$ which transports the vorticity. The first-order correction
to the velocity field is linear in the boundary velocity, and we show how it
can be computed from the time-derivative of $\gL$.
  The evolution of the Lagrangian position of fluid particles is also examined.
Thanks to vorticity conservation, this position can be specified by an
angle-like coordinate along vorticity contours. An evolution equation for this
angle is derived, and the net change in angle resulting from a cyclic
deformation of the domain boundary is calculated. This includes a geometric
contribution which can be expressed as the integral of a certain curvature over
the interior of the circuit that is traced by the parameters defining the
deforming boundary.
  A perturbation approach using Lie series is developed for the computation of
both the Eulerian flow and geometric angle for small deformations of the
boundary. Explicit results are presented for the evolution of nearly
axisymmetric flows in slightly deformed discs.