The problem of multicasting two nested message sets is studied over a class
of wireline networks known as combination networks. A source multicasts two
messages, a common and a private message, to several receivers. A subset of the
receivers (called the public receivers) only demand the common message and the
rest of the receivers (called the private receivers) demand both the common and
the private message. Three encoding schemes are discussed which are based on
linear superposition schemes.
  The standard linear superposition scheme is shown to be optimal for networks
with two public receivers and any number of private receivers. When the number
of public receivers increases, however, this scheme stops being optimal. Two
improvements are discussed: one using a pre-encoding at the source followed by
a linear superposition scheme, and one using a block Markov encoding scheme.
The rate-regions that are achieved by the two schemes are characterized in
terms of feasibility problems. Both inner-bounds are shown to be the capacity
region for networks with three (or fewer) public and any number of private
receivers. Although the inner bounds are not comparable in general, it is shown
through an example that the region achieved by the block Markov encoding scheme
may strictly include the region achieved by the pre-encoding/linear
superposition scheme.
  The block Markov encoding scheme is further generalized and a new achievable
scheme is derived for broadcast channels with two nested message sets. The
rate-region that is obtained includes the previously known rate-regions. It
remains open whether this inclusion is strict.