A multigrid scheme is proposed for the pressure equation of the
incompressible unsteady fluid flow equations, allowing efficient implementation
on clusters of modern CPUs, many integrated core devices (MICs), and graphics
processing units (GPUs). It is shown that the total number of the
synchronization events can be significantly reduced when a deep, 2h grid
hierarchy is replaced with a two-level scheme using 16h-32h restriction,
fitting to the the width of the SIMD engine of modern CPUs and GPUs. In
addition, optimal memory transfer is also ensured, since no strided memory
access is required. We report increasing arithmetic intensity of the smoothing
steps when compared to the conventional additive correction multigrid (ACM),
however it is counterbalanced in runtime by the decreasing number of the
expensive restriction steps. A systematic construction methodology for the
coarse grid stencil is also presented that helps in moderating the excess
arithmetic intensity associated with the aggressive coarsening. Our higher
order interpolated stencil improves convergence rate via minimizing spurious
interference between the coarse and the fine scale solutions. The method is
demonstrated on solving the pressure equation for 2D incompressible fluid flow:
The benchmark setups cover shear driven laminar flow in cavity, and direct
numerical simulation (DNS) of a turbulent jet. We have compared our scheme to
the ACM in terms of the arithmetic intensity of the iterations and the number
of the synchronization calls required. Also the strong scaling is plotted for
our scheme when using a hybrid OpenCl/MPI based parallelization.