Nearly homogeneous and isotropic, highly turbulent flow, generated by an
original multi-scale injector is experimentally studied. This multi-scale
injector is made of three perforated plates shifted in space such that the
diameter of their holes and their blockage ratio increase with the downstream
distance. The Multi-Scale Turbulence Injector (hereafter, MuSTI) is compared
with a Mono-Scale Turbulence Injector (MoSTI), the latter being constituted by
only the last plate of MuSTI. This comparison is done for both cold and
reactive flows. For the cold flow, it is shown that, in comparison with the
classical mono-scale injector, for the MuSTI injector: (i) the turbulent
kinetic energy is roughly twice larger, and the kinetic energy supply is
distributed over the whole range of scales. This is emphasized by second and
third order structure functions. (ii) the transverse fluxes of momentum and
energy are enhanced, (iii) the homogeneity and isotropy are reached earlier
($\approx 50$%), (iv) the jet merging distance is the relevant scaling
length-scale of the turbulent flow, (v) high turbulence intensity ($\approx
15$%) is achieved in the homogeneous and isotropic region, although the
Reynolds number based on the Taylor microscale remains moderate ($Re_\lambda
\approx 80$). In a second part, the interaction between the multi-scale
generated turbulence and the premixed flame front is investigated by laser
tomography. A lean V-shaped methane/air flame is stabilised on a heated rod in
the homogeneous and isotropic region of the turbulent flow. The main
observation is that the flame wrinkling is hugely amplified with the
multi-scale generated injector, as testified by the increase of the flame brush
thickness.