Nuclear reaction rates are quantities of fundamental importance in
astrophysics. Substantial efforts have been devoted in the last decades to
measure or calculate them. The present paper presents for the first time a
detailed description of the Brussels nuclear reaction rate library BRUSLIB and
of the nuclear network generator NETGEN so as to make these nuclear data
packages easily accessible to astrophysicists for a large variety of
applications. BRUSLIB is made of two parts. The first one contains the 1999
NACRE compilation based on experimental data for 86 reactions with (mainly)
stable targets up to Si. The second part of BRUSLIB concerns nuclear reaction
rate predictions calculated within a statistical Hauser-Feshbach approximation,
which limits the reliability of the rates to reactions producing compound
nuclei with a high enough level density. These calculations make use of global
and coherent microscopic nuclear models for the quantities entering the rate
calculations. The use of such models is utterly important, and makes the
BRUSLIB rate library unique.
 A description of the Nuclear Network Generator NETGEN that complements the
BRUSLIB package is also presented. NETGEN is a tool to generate nuclear
reaction rates for temperature grids specified by the user. The information it
provides can be used for a large variety of applications, including Big Bang
nucleosynthesis, the energy generation and nucleosynthesis associated with the
non-explosive and explosive hydrogen to silicon burning stages, or the
synthesis of the heavy nuclides through the s-, alpha- and r-, rp- or
p-processes.