This paper investigates the enumeration, rate region computation, and
hierarchy of general multi-source multi-sink hyperedge networks under network
coding, which includes multiple network models, such as independent distributed
storage systems and index coding problems, as special cases. A notion of
minimal networks and a notion of network equivalence under group action are
defined. An efficient algorithm capable of directly listing single minimal
canonical representatives from each network equivalence class is presented and
utilized to list all minimal canonical networks with up to 5 sources and
hyperedges. Computational tools are then applied to obtain the rate regions of
all of these canonical networks, providing exact expressions for 744,119 newly
solved network coding rate regions corresponding to more than 2 trillion
isomorphic network coding problems. In order to better understand and analyze
the huge repository of rate regions through hierarchy, several embedding and
combination operations are defined so that the rate region of the network after
operation can be derived from the rate regions of networks involved in the
operation. The embedding operations enable the definition and determination of
a list of forbidden network minors for the sufficiency of classes of linear
codes. The combination operations enable the rate regions of some larger
networks to be obtained as the combination of the rate regions of smaller
networks. The integration of both the combinations and embedding operators is
then shown to enable the calculation of rate regions for many networks not
reachable via combination operations alone.