We describe a numerical code to solve the equations for ideal
magnetohydrodynamics (MHD). It is based on an explicit finite difference scheme
on an Eulerian grid, called the Total Variation Diminishing (TVD) scheme, which
is a second-order-accurate extension of the Roe-type upwind scheme. We also
describe a nonlinear Riemann solver for ideal MHD, which includes rarefactions
as well as shocks and produces exact solutions for two-dimensional magnetic
field structures as well as for the three-dimensional ones. The numerical code
and the Riemann solver have been used to test each other. Extensive tests
encompassing all the possible ideal MHD structures with planar symmetries (\ie
~one-dimensional flows) are presented. These include those for which the field
structure is two-dimensional ({\it i.e.}, those flows often called ``$1 + 1/2$
dimensional'') as well as those for which the magnetic field plane rotates
({\it i.e.,}, those flows often called ``$1 + 1/2 + 1/2$ dimensional'').
Results indicate that the code can resolve strong fast, slow, and magnetosonic
shocks within 2-4 cells while more cells are required if shocks become weak.
With proper stiffening, rotational discontinuities are resolved within 3-5
cells. Contact discontinuities are also resolved within 3-5 cells with
stiffening and 6-8 cells without stiffening, while the stiffening on contact
discontinuities in some cases generates numerical oscillations. Tangential
discontinuities spread over more than 10 cells. Our tests confirm that slow
compound structures with two-dimensional magnetic field are composed of
intermediate shocks (so called ``2-4''