For many real-world networks only a small "sampled" version of the original
network may be investigated; those results are then used to draw conclusions
about the actual system. Variants of breadth-first search (BFS) sampling, which
are based on epidemic processes, are widely used. Although it is well
established that BFS sampling fails, in most cases, to capture the
IN-component(s) of directed networks, a description of the effects of BFS
sampling on other topological properties are all but absent from the
literature. To systematically study the effects of sampling biases on directed
networks, we compare BFS sampling to random sampling on complete large-scale
directed networks. We present new results and a thorough analysis of the
topological properties of seven different complete directed networks (prior to
sampling), including three versions of Wikipedia, three different sources of
sampled World Wide Web data, and an Internet-based social network. We detail
the differences that sampling method and coverage can make to the structural
properties of sampled versions of these seven networks. Most notably, we find
that sampling method and coverage affect both the bow-tie structure, as well as
the number and structure of strongly connected components in sampled networks.
In addition, at low sampling coverage (i.e. less than 40%), the values of
average degree, variance of out-degree, degree auto-correlation, and link
reciprocity are overestimated by 30% or more in BFS-sampled networks, and only
attain values within 10% of the corresponding values in the complete networks
when sampling coverage is in excess of 65%. These results may cause us to
rethink what we know about the structure, function, and evolution of real-world
directed networks.