Rapid proliferation of wireless communication devices and the emergence of a
variety of new applications have triggered investigations into next-generation
mobile broadband systems, i.e., 5G. Legacy 2G--4G systems covering large areas
were envisioned to serve both indoor and outdoor environments. However, in the
5G-era, 80\% of overall traffic is expected to be generated in indoors. Hence,
the current approach of macro-cell mobile network, where there is no
differentiation between indoors and outdoors, needs to be reconsidered. We
envision 60\,GHz mmWave picocell architecture to support high-speed indoor and
hotspot communications. We envisage the 5G indoor network as a combination of-,
and interplay between, 2.4/5\,GHz having robust coverage and 60\,GHz links
offering high datarate. This requires an intelligent coordination and
cooperation. We propose 60\,GHz picocellular network architecture, called
CogCell, leveraging the ubiquitous WiFi. We propose to use 60\,GHz for the data
plane and 2.4/5GHz for the control plane. The hybrid network architecture
considers an opportunistic fall-back to 2.4/5\,GHz in case of poor connectivity
in the 60\,GHz domain. Further, to avoid the frequent re-beamforming in 60\,GHz
directional links due to mobility, we propose a cognitive module -- a
sensor-assisted intelligent beam switching procedure -- which reduces the
communication overhead. We believe that the CogCell concept will help future
indoor communications and possibly outdoor hotspots, where mobile stations and
access points collaborate with each other to improve the user experience.