The algebraic formulation for linear network coding in acyclic networks with
the links having integer delay is well known. Based on this formulation, for a
given set of connections over an arbitrary acyclic network with integer delay
assumed for the links, the output symbols at the sink nodes, at any given time
instant, is a $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$-linear combination of the input symbols across
different generations where, $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$ denotes the field over which
the network operates ($p$ is prime and $m$ is a positive integer). We use
finite-field discrete fourier transform (DFT) to convert the output symbols at
the sink nodes, at any given time instant, into a $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$-linear
combination of the input symbols generated during the same generation without
making use of memory at the intermediate nodes. We call this as transforming
the acyclic network with delay into {\em $n$-instantaneous networks} ($n$ is
sufficiently large). We show that under certain conditions, there exists a
network code satisfying sink demands in the usual (non-transform) approach if
and only if there exists a network code satisfying sink demands in the
transform approach. When the zero-interference conditions are not satisfied, we
propose three Precoding Based Network Alignment (PBNA) schemes for three-source
three-destination multiple unicast network with delays (3-S 3-D MUN-D) termed
as PBNA using transform approach and time-invariant local encoding coefficients
(LECs), PBNA using time-varying LECs, and PBNA using transform approach and
block time-varying LECs. Their feasibility conditions are then analyzed.