A few months ago, the BitTorrent developers announced that the transfer of
torrent data in the official client was about to switch to uTP, an
application-layer congestion-control protocol using UDP at the transport-layer.
This announcement immediately raised an unmotivated buzz about a new, imminent
congestion collapse of the whole Internet. Though this reaction was not built
on solid technical foundation, nevertheless a legitimate question remains:
i.e., whether this novel algorithm is a necessary building block for future
Internet applications, or whether it may result in an umpteenth addition to the
already well populated world of Internet congestion control algorithms.
  In this paper, we tackle precisely this issue. The novel protocol is now
under discussion at the IETF LEDBAT working group, and has been defined in a
draft document in March 2009, whose adoption decision will be taken at the
beginning of August 2009. Adhering to the IETF draft definition, we implement
the LEDBAT congestion control algorithm and investigate its performance by
means of packet-level simulations. Considering a simple bottleneck scenario
where LEDBAT competes against either TCP or other LEDBAT flows, we evaluate the
fairness of the resource share as well as its efficiency. Our preliminary
results show that indeed, there is an undoubted appeal behind the novel
application-layer congestion-control protocol. Yet, care must be taken in order
to ensure that some important points, such as intra-protocol fairness, are
fully clarified in the draft specification -- which we hope that this work can
contribute to.