Many complex networks from the World-Wide-Web to biological networks are
growing taking into account the heterogeneous features of the nodes. The
feature of a node might be a discrete quantity such as a classification of a
URL document as personal page, thematic website, news, blog, search engine,
social network, ect. or the classification of a gene in a functional module.
Moreover the feature of a node can be a continuous variable such as the
position of a node in the embedding space. In order to account for these
properties, in this paper we provide a generalization of growing network models
with preferential attachment that includes the effect of heterogeneous features
of the nodes. The main effect of heterogeneity is the emergence of an
"effective fitness" for each class of nodes, determining the rate at which
nodes acquire new links. The degree distribution exhibits a multiscaling
behaviour analogous to the the fitness model. This property is robust with
respect to variations in the model, as long as links are assigned through
effective preferential attachment. Beyond the degree distribution, in this
paper we give a full characterization of the other relevant properties of the
model. We evaluate the clustering coefficient and show that it disappears for
large network size, a property shared with the Barab\'asi-Albert model.
Negative degree correlations are also present in the studied class of models,
along with non-trivial mixing patterns among features. We therefore conclude
that both small clustering coefficients and disassortative mixing are outcomes
of the preferential attachment mechanism in general growing networks.