The growth rate of the dynamo instability as a function of the magnetic
Reynolds number Rm is investigated by means of numerical simulations for the
family of the ABC flows and for 2 different forcing scales. For the ABC flows
that are driven at the largest available length scale it is found that as the
magnetic Reynolds number is increased: (a) The flow that results first in
dynamo is the 2.5D flow for which A=B and C=0 (and all permutations). (b) The
second type of flow that results in dynamo is the one for which A=B=2C/5 (and
permutations). (c) The most symmetric flow A=B=C is the third type of flow that
results in dynamo. (d) As Rm is increased, the A=B=C flow stops being a dynamo
and transitions from a local maximum to a third-order saddle point. (e) At
larger Rm the A=B=C flow re-establishes its self as a dynamo but remains a
saddle point. (f) At the largest examined Rm the growth rate of the 2.5D flows
starts to decrease, the A=B=C flow comes close to a local maximum again and the
flow A=B=2C/5 (and permutations) results in the fastest dynamo with growth rate
$\gamma~0.12$ at the largest examined Rm. For the ABC flows that are driven at
the second largest available length scale it is found that (a) the 2.5D flows
A=B, C=0 (and permutations) are again the first flows that result in dynamo
with a decreased onset. (b) The most symmetric flow A=B=C is the second type of
flow that results in dynamo. It is and remains a local maximum. (c) At larger
Rm the flow A=B=2C/5 (and permutations) appears as the third type of flow that
results in dynamo. As Rm is increased it becomes the flow with the largest
growth rate. The growth rates appear to have some correlation with the Lyaponov
exponents but constructive re-folding of the field lines appears equally
important in determining the fasted dynamo flow.