The design and development of a parallel plate shear cell for the study of
large scale shear flows in granular materials is presented. The parallel plate
geometry allows for shear studies without the effects of curvature found in the
more common Couette experiments. A system of independently movable slats
creates a well with side walls that deform in response to the motions of grains
within the pack. This allows for true parallel plate shear with minimal
interference from the containing geometry. The motions of the side walls also
allow for a direct measurement of the velocity profile across the granular
pack. Results are presented for applying this system to the study of transients
in granular shear and for shear-induced crystallization. Initial shear profiles
are found to vary from packing to packing, ranging from a linear profile across
the entire system to an exponential decay with a width of approximately 6 bead
diameters. As the system is sheared, the velocity profile becomes much sharper,
resembling an exponential decay with a width of roughly 3 bead diameters.
Further shearing produces velocity profiles which can no longer be fit to an
exponential decay, but are better represented as a Gaussian decay or error
function profile. Cyclic shear is found to produce large scale ordering of the
granular pack, which has a profound impact on the shear profile. There exist
periods of time in which there is slipping between layers as well as periods of
time in which the layered particles lock together resulting in very little
relative motion.