In economic and financial networks, the strength of each node has always an
important economic meaning, such as the size of supply and demand, import and
export, or financial exposure. Constructing null models of networks matching
the observed strengths of all nodes is crucial in order to either detect
interesting deviations of an empirical network from economically meaningful
benchmarks or reconstruct the most likely structure of an economic network when
the latter is unknown. However, several studies have proved that real economic
networks and multiplexes are topologically very different from configurations
inferred only from node strengths. Here we provide a detailed analysis of the
World Trade Multiplex by comparing it to an enhanced null model that
simultaneously reproduces the strength and the degree of each node. We study
several temporal snapshots and almost one hundred layers (commodity classes) of
the multiplex and find that the observed properties are systematically well
reproduced by our model. Our formalism allows us to introduce the (static)
concept of extensive and intensive bias, defined as a measurable tendency of
the network to prefer either the formation of extra links or the reinforcement
of link weights, with respect to a reference case where only strengths are
enforced. Our findings complement the existing economic literature on (dynamic)
intensive and extensive trade margins. More in general, they show that
real-world multiplexes can be strongly shaped by layer-specific local
constraints.