The current research focuses on mesoscale dynamics of the atmospheric
circulation around an idealized coastal cape representing typical summertime
circulation along the northwest coast of the U.S., studied using a mesoscale
coupled ocean-atmosphere modeling system. The orographic wind maximum features
a strong NW flow extending a few hundred kilometers downstream and seaward of
the cape, which closely follows mesoscale orographic low pressure developed in
the lee of the cape. Both wind maximum and the lee trough experience a
pronounced diurnal cycle, marked by maximum northwest flow and minimum pressure
in the local evening hours (its opposite phase during morning hours), and
confirmed by observations from limited buoy and coastal stations.
  Vertical structure of the atmospheric boundary layer over the coastal ocean
on the lee side of the cape indicated the downward propagation of potential
temperature and wind features during the course of the day, as opposed to the
traditional surface-driven development of the atmospheric boundary layer.
Momentum analysis showed the local pressure gradients near the surface vary
greatly depending on the relative location about the cape. Strong perturbations
in relative vorticity downwind of the cape supported the hypothesis that
mountain dynamics have a key role in establishing wind regime around the cape.
The sensitivity studies indicated the importance of coastal terrain elevation
on the formation and the strength of the lee trough and wind maximum. Higher
coastal topography was found to cause greater separation of the upwelling front
(jet) from the coast downwind of the cape.