We study the accretion flow of a hot gas captured by the black hole gravity
in the presence of a thin cold accretion disk. Such geometrical arrangement is
expected in Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) and in galactic X-ray binary systems
because both hot and cold gases are present in the black hole vicinity.
Previous astrophysical literature concentrated on the evaporation of the cold
disk in the classical heat conduction limit. Here we consider the inverse
process, i.e. condensation of the hot gas onto the cold disk. We find two
distinct condensation regimes. (i) In the classical thermal conduction limit,
the radiative cooling in the hot gas itself force condensation above a certain
critical accretion rate. Most of the flow energy in this case is re-emitted as
X-ray radiation. (ii) Below a certain minimum accretion rate, the hot electrons
are collisionless and the classical heat flux description becomes invalid. We
use the ``non-local'' heat flux approach borrowed from the terrestrial laser
heated plasma experiments. Due to their very large mean free path, the hot
particles penetrate deep into the cold disk where the radiative losses are
significant enough to enable condensation. In this case the hot flow energy is
inconspicuously re-radiated by the transition layer in many UV and especially
optical recombination lines (e.g., Ly$\alpha$, $H\alpha$, H$\beta$) as well as
via the optically thick disk emission. We derive an approximate analytical
solution for the dynamics of the hot condensing flow. If the cold disk is
inactive, i.e. accumulating mass for a future accretion outburst, then the
two-phase flows appear radiatively inefficient. These condensing solutions may
be relevant to \sgra, low luminosity AGN, and transient binary accreting
systems in quiescence.