Maintaining the quality of service (QOS) and controlling the network
congestion are quite complicated tasks. They cause degrading the performance of
the network, and disturbing the continuous communication process. To overcome
these issues, one step towards this dilemma has been taken in form of
Pre-congestion notification (PCN) technique. PCN uses a packet marking
technique within a PCN domain over IP networks. It is notified by egress node
that works as guard at entry point of network. Egress node gives feedback to
communicating servers whether rate on the link is exceeded than configured
admissible threshold or within the limit. Based on this feedback, admission
decisions are taken to determine whether to allow/block new coming flows or
terminate already accepted. The actual question is about selection of right
algorithm for PCN domain. In this paper, we investigate the analytical behavior
of some known PCN algorithms. We make slide modifications in originality of PCN
algorithms without disquieting working process in order to employ those within
similar types of scenarios. Our goal is to simulate them either in highly
congested or less congested realistic scenarios. On the basis of simulation
done in ns2, we are able to recommend each PCN algorithm for specific
conditions. Finally, we develop a benchmark that helps researchers and
scientific communities to pick the right algorithm. Furthermore, the benchmark
is designed to achieve specific objectives according to the users' requirements
without congesting the network.