The magnetic network which consists of vertical flux tubes located in
intergranular lanes is dominated by Hall drift in the photosphere-lower
chromosphere region ($\lesssim 1 Mm$). In the internetwork regions, Hall drift
dominates above $0.25 Mm$ in the photosphere and below $2.5 Mm$ in the
chromosphere. Although Hall drift does not cause any dissipation in the ambient
plasma, it can destabilise the flux tubes and magnetic elements in the presence
of azimuthal shear flow. The physical mechanism of this instability is quite
simple: the shear flow twists the radial magnetic field and generates azimuthal
field; torsional oscillations of the azimuthal field in turn generates the
radial field completing feedback loop. The maximum growth rate of Hall
instability is proportional to the absolute value of the shear gradient and is
dependent on the ambient diffusivity. The diffusivity also determines the most
unstable wavelength which is smaller for weaker fields.
  We apply the result of local stability analysis to the network and
internetwork magnetic elements and show that the maximum growth rate for
kilogauss field occurs around $0.5 Mm$ and decreases with increasing altitude.
However, for a $120 G$ field, the maximum growth rate remains almost constant
in the entire photosphere-lower chromosphere except in a small region of lower
photosphere. For shear flow gradient $\sim 0.01 s^{-1}$, the Hall growth time
is 10 minute near the footpoint. Therefore, network fields are likely to be
unstable in the photosphere, whereas internetwork fields could be unstable in
the entire photosphere-chromosphere. Thus the Hall instability can play an
important role in generating low frequency turbulence which can heat the
chromosphere.