One fundamental problem in the field of network coding is to determine the
network coding capacity of networks under various network coding schemes. In
this thesis, we address the problem with two approaches: matroidal networks and
capacity regions.
  In our matroidal approach, we prove the converse of the theorem which states
that, if a network is scalar-linearly solvable then it is a matroidal network
associated with a representable matroid over a finite field. As a consequence,
we obtain a correspondence between scalar-linearly solvable networks and
representable matroids over finite fields in the framework of matroidal
networks. We prove a theorem about the scalar-linear solvability of networks
and field characteristics. We provide a method for generating scalar-linearly
solvable networks that are potentially different from the networks that we
already know are scalar-linearly solvable.
  In our capacity region approach, we define a multi-dimensional object, called
the network capacity region, associated with networks that is analogous to the
rate regions in information theory. For the network routing capacity region, we
show that the region is a computable rational polytope and provide exact
algorithms and approximation heuristics for computing the region. For the
network linear coding capacity region, we construct a computable rational
polytope, with respect to a given finite field, that inner bounds the linear
coding capacity region and provide exact algorithms and approximation
heuristics for computing the polytope. The exact algorithms and approximation
heuristics we present are not polynomial time schemes and may depend on the
output size.