This paper examines the velocity profile of fuel issuing from a high-pressure
single-orifice diesel injector. Velocities of liquid structures were determined
from time-resolved ultrafast shadow images, formed by an amplified two-pulse
laser source coupled to a double-frame camera. A statistical analysis of the
data over many injection events was undertaken to map velocities related to
spray formation near the nozzle outlet as a function of time after start of
injection. These results reveal a strong asymmetry in the liquid profile of the
test injector, with distinct fast and slow regions on opposite sides of the
orifice. Differences of ~100 m/s can be observed between the 'fast' and 'slow'
sides of the jet, resulting in different atomization conditions across the
spray. On average, droplets are dispersed at a greater distance from the nozzle
on the 'fast' side of the flow, and distinct macrostructure can be observed
under the asymmetric velocity conditions. The changes in structural velocity
and atomization behavior resemble flow structures which are often observed in
the presence of string cavitation produced under controlled conditions in
scaled, transparent test nozzles. These observations suggest that widely used
common-rail supply configurations and modern injectors can potentially generate
asymmetric interior flows which strongly influence diesel spray morphology. The
velocimetry measurements presented in this work represent an effective and
relatively straightforward approach to identify deviant flow behavior in real
diesel sprays, providing new spatially resolved information on fluid structure
and flow characteristics within the shear layers on the jet periphery.