This chapter concerns "control volume analysis", the standard engineering
tool for the analysis of flow systems, and its application to entropy balance
calculations. Firstly, the principles of control volume analysis are enunciated
and applied to flows of conserved quantities (e.g. mass, momentum, energy)
through a control volume, giving integral (Reynolds transport theorem) and
differential forms of the conservation equations. Several definitions of steady
state are discussed. The concept of "entropy" is then established using Jaynes'
maximum entropy method, both in general and in equilibrium thermodynamics. The
thermodynamic entropy then gives the "entropy production" concept. Equations
for the entropy production are then derived for simple, integral and
infinitesimal flow systems. Some technical aspects are examined, including
discrete and continuum representations of volume elements, the effect of
radiation, and the analysis of systems subdivided into compartments. A Reynolds
decomposition of the entropy production equation then reveals an "entropy
production closure problem" in fluctuating dissipative systems: even at steady
state, the entropy production based on mean flow rates and gradients is not
necessarily in balance with the outward entropy fluxes based on mean
quantities. Finally, a direct analysis of an infinitesimal element by Jaynes'
maximum entropy method yields a theoretical framework with which to predict the
steady state of a flow system. This is cast in terms of a "minimum flux
potential" principle, which reduces, in different circumstances, to maximum or
minimum entropy production (MaxEP or MinEP) principles. It is hoped that this
chapter inspires others to attain a deeper understanding and higher technical
rigour in the calculation and extremisation of the entropy production in flow
systems of all types.