Operating Systems exists since existence of computers, and have been evolving
continuously from time to time. In this paper we have reviewed a relatively new
or unexplored topic of Live OS. From networking perspective, Live OS is used
for establishing Clusters, Firewalls and as Network security assessment tool
etc. Our proposed concept is that a Live OS can be established or configured
for an organizations specific network requirements with respect to their
servers. An important server failure due to hardware or software could take
time for remedy of the problem, so for that situation a preconfigured server in
the form of Live OS on CD/DVD/USB can be used as an immediate solution. In a
network of ten nodes, we stopped the server machine and with necessary
adjustments, Live OS replaced the server in less than five minutes. Live OS in
a network environment is a quick replacement of the services that are failed
due to server failure (hardware or software). It is a cost effective solution
for low budget networks. The life of Live OS starts when we boot it from
CD/DVD/USB and remains in action for that session. As soon as the machine is
rebooted, any work done for that session is gone, (in case we do not store any
information on permanent storage media). Live CD/DVD/USB is normally used on
systems where we do not have Operating Systems installed. A Live OS can also be
used on systems where we already have an installed OS. On the basis of
functionality a Live OS can be used for many purposes and has some typical
advantages that are not available on other operating systems. Vendors are
releasing different distributions of Live OS and is becoming their sole
identity in a particular domain like Networks, Security, Education or
Entertainment etc. There can be many aspects of Live OS, but Linux based Live
OS and their use in the field of networks is the main focus of this paper.