The dynamics of adhesion of a spherical micro-particle to a ligand-coated
wall, in shear flow, is studied using a Langevin equation that accounts for
thermal fluctuations, hydrodynamic interactions and adhesive interactions.
Contrary to the conventional assumption that thermal fluctuations play a
negligible role at high P$\acute{e}$clet numbers, we find that for particles
with low surface densities of receptors, rotational diffusion caused by
fluctuations about the flow and gradient directions aids in bond formation,
leading to significantly greater adhesion on average, compared to simulations
where thermal fluctuations are completely ignored. The role of wall
hydrodynamic interactions on the steady state motion of a particle, when the
particle is close to the wall, has also been explored. At high P$\acute{e}$clet
numbers, the shear induced force that arises due to the stresslet part of the
Stokes dipole, plays a dominant role, reducing the particle velocity
significantly, and affecting the states of motion of the particle. The coupling
between the translational and rotational degrees of freedom of the particle,
brought about by the presence of hydrodynamic interactions, is found to have no
influence on the binding dynamics. On the other hand, the drag coefficient,
which depends on the distance of the particle from the wall, plays a crucial
role at low rates of bond formation. A significant difference in the effect of
both the shear force and the position dependent drag force, on the states of
motion of the particle, is observed when the P$\acute{e}$let number is small.