For long, node cooperation has been exploited as a data relaying mechanism.
However, the wireless channel allows for much richer interaction between nodes.
One such scenario is in a multi-channel environment, where transmitter-receiver
pairs may make incorrect decisions (e.g., in selecting channels) but idle
neighbors could help by sharing information to prevent undesirable consequences
(e.g., data collisions). This represents a Distributed Information SHaring
(DISH) mechanism for cooperation and suggests new ways of designing cooperative
protocols. However, what is lacking is a theoretical understanding of this new
notion of cooperation. In this paper, we view cooperation as a network resource
and evaluate the availability of cooperation via a metric, $p_{co}$, the
probability of obtaining cooperation. First, we analytically evaluate $p_{co}$
in the context of multi-channel multi-hop wireless networks. Second, we verify
our analysis via simulations and the results show that our analysis accurately
characterizes the behavior of $p_{co}$ as a function of underlying network
parameters. This step also yields important insights into DISH with respect to
network dynamics. Third, we investigate the correlation between $p_{co}$ and
network performance in terms of collision rate, packet delay, and throughput.
The results indicate a near-linear relationship, which may significantly
simplify performance analysis for cooperative networks and suggests that
$p_{co}$ be used as an appropriate performance indicator itself. Throughout
this work, we utilize, as appropriate, three different DISH contexts ---
model-based DISH, ideal DISH, and real DISH --- to explore $p_{co}$.