Magnetization in highly conductive plasmas is ubiquitous to astronomical
systems. Flows in such media can be described by three path functions
$\Lambda_\alpha$, or, for a steady flow, by two stream functions
$\lambda_\kappa$ and an additional field such as the mass density $\rho$,
velocity $v$, or travel time $\Delta t$. While typical analyses of a frozen
magnetic field $\boldsymbol{B}$ are problem-specific and involve nonlocal
gradients of the fluid element position $\boldsymbol{x}(t)$, we derive the
general, local (in $\Lambda$ or $\lambda$ space) solution
$\boldsymbol{B}=(\partial\boldsymbol{x}/\partial\Lambda_\alpha)_t
\tilde{B}_\alpha \rho/\tilde{\rho}$, where Lagrangian constants denoted by a
tilde are directly fixed at a boundary hypersurface $\tilde{H}$ on which
$\boldsymbol{B}$ is known. For a steady flow,
$\tilde{\rho}\boldsymbol{B}/\rho=(\partial\boldsymbol{x}/\partial\lambda_\kappa)_{\Delta
t}\tilde{B}_\kappa+\boldsymbol{v}\tilde{B}_3/\tilde{v}$; here the electric
field
$\boldsymbol{E}\sim(\tilde{B}_2\boldsymbol{\nabla}\lambda_1-\tilde{B}_1\boldsymbol{\nabla}\lambda_2)/\tilde{\rho}$
depends only on $\lambda_\kappa$ and the boundary conditions. Illustrative
special cases include compressible axisymmetric flows and incompressible flows
around a sphere, showing that viscosity and compressibility enhance the
magnetization and lead to thicker boundary layers. Our method is especially
useful for directly computing electric fields, and for addressing upstream
magnetic fields that vary in spacetime. We thus estimate the electric fields
above heliospheres and magnetospheres, compute the draping of magnetic
substructure around a planetary body, and demonstrate the resulting inverse
polarity reversal layer. Our analysis can be incorporated into existing
hydrodynamic codes that are based on stream or path functions. (Abridged)