The observed tight radio/X-ray correlation in the low spectral state of some
black hole X-ray binaries implies the strong coupling of the accretion and jet.
The correlation of $L_{\rm R} \propto L_{\rm X}^{\sim 0.5-0.7}$ was well
explained by the coupling of a radiatively inefficient accretion flow and a
jet. Recently, however, a growing number of sources show more complicated
radio/X-ray correlations, e.g., $L_{\rm R} \propto L_{\rm X}^{\sim 1.4}$ for
$L_{\rm X}/L_{\rm Edd} \gtrsim 10^{-3}$, which is suggested to be explained by
the coupling of a radiatively efficient accretion flow and a jet. In this work,
we interpret the deviation from the initial radio/X-ray correlation for $L_{\rm
X}/L_{\rm Edd} \gtrsim 10^{-3}$ with a detailed disc corona-jet model. In this
model, the disc and corona are radiatively and dynamically coupled. Assuming a
fraction of the matter in the accretion flow, $\eta\equiv \dot M_{\rm jet}/\dot
M$, is ejected to form the jet, we can calculate the emergent spectrum of the
disc corona-jet system. We calculate $L_{\rm R}$ and $L_{\rm X}$ at different
$\dot M$, adjusting $\eta$ to fit the observed radio/X-ray correlation of the
black hole X-ray transient H1743-322 for $L_{\rm X}/L_{\rm Edd}> 10^{-3}$. It
is found that always the X-ray emission is dominated by the disc corona and the
radio emission is dominated by the jet. We noted that the value of $\eta$ for
the deviated radio/X-ray correlation for $L_{\rm X}/L_{\rm Edd} > 10^{-3}$, is
systematically less than that of the case for $L_{\rm X}/L_{\rm Edd} <
10^{-3}$, which is consistent with the general idea that the jet is often
relatively suppressed at the high luminosity phase in black hole X-ray
binaries.