We employ the three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamic simulation including
ambipolar diffusion to study the gravitationally-driven fragmentation of
subcritical molecular clouds, in which the gravitational fragmentation is
stabilized as long as magnetic flux-freezing applies. The simulations show that
the cores in an initially subcritical cloud generally develop gradually over an
ambipolar diffusion time, which is about a few $\times 10^7$ years in a typical
molecular cloud. On the other hand, the formation of collapsing cores in
subcritical clouds is accelerated by supersonic nonlinear flows. Our parameter
study demonstrates that core formation occurs faster as the strength of the
initial flow speed in the cloud increases. We found that the core formation
time is roughly proportional to the inverse of the square root of the enhanced
density created by the supersonic nonlinear flows. The density dependence is
similar to that derived in quasistatically contracting magnetically supported
clouds, although the core formation conditions are created by the nonlinear
flows in our simulations. We have also found that the accelerated formation
time is not strongly dependent on the initial strength of the magnetic field if
the cloud is highly subcritical. Our simulation shows that the core formation
time in our model subcritical clouds is several $\times 10^6$ years, due to the
presence of large-scale supersonic flows ($\sim 3$ times sound speed). Once a
collapsing core forms, the density, velocity, and magnetic field structure of
the core does not strongly depend on the initial strength of the velocity
fluctuation. The infall velocities of the cores are subsonic and the magnetic
field lines show weak hourglass shapes.