Among several heliophysical and geophysical quantities, the accurate
evolution of the solar irradiance is fundamental to forecast the evolution of
the neutral and ionized components of the Earth's atmosphere.We developed an
artificial neural network model to compute the evolution of the solar
irradiance in near-real time. The model is based on the assumption that that
great part of the solar irradiance variability is due to the evolution of the
structure of the solar magnetic field. We employ a Layer-Recurrent Network
(LRN) to model the complex relationships between the evolution of the bipolar
magnetic structures (input) and the solar irradiance (output). The evolution of
the bipolar magnetic structures is obtained from near-real time solar disk
magnetograms and intensity images. The magnetic structures are identify and
classified according to the area of the solar disk covered. We constrained the
model by comparing the output of the model and observations of the solar
irradiance made by instruments onboard of SORCE spacecraft. Here we focus on
two regions of the spectra that are covered by SORCE instruments. The
generalization of the network is tested by dividing the data sets on two
groups: the training set; and, the validation set. We have found that the model
error is wavelength dependent. While the model error for 24-hour forecast in
the band from 115 to 180 nm is lower than 5%, the model error can reach 20% in
the band from 180 to 310 nm. The performance of the network reduces
progressively with the increase of the forecast period, which limits
significantly the maximum forecast period that we can achieve with the
discussed architecture. The model proposed allows us to predict the total and
spectral solar irradiance up to three days in advance.