Existing standard protocols for the web and Internet telephony fail to
deliver real-time interactive communication from within a web browser. In
particular, the client-server web protocol over reliable TCP is not always
suitable for end-to-end low latency media path needed for interactive voice and
video communication. To solve this, we compare the available platform options
using the existing technologies such as modifying the web programming language
and protocol, using an existing web browser plugin, and a separate host
resident application that the web browser can talk to. We argue that using a
separate application as an adaptor is a promising short term as well as
long-term strategy for voice and video communications on the web. Our project
aims at developing the open technology and sample implementations for web-based
real-time voice and video communication applications. We describe the
architecture of our project including (1) a RESTful web communication API over
HTTP inspired by SIP message flows, (2) a web-friendly set of metadata for
session description, and (3) an UDP-based end-to-end media path. All other
telephony functions reside in the web application itself and/or in web feature
servers. The adaptor approach allows us to easily add new voice and video
codecs and NAT traversal technologies such as Host Identity Protocol. We want
to make web-based communication accessible to millions of web developers,
maximize the end user experience and security, and preserve the huge global
investment in and experience from SIP systems while adhering to web standards
and development tools as much as possible. We have created an open source
prototype that allows you to freely use the conference application by directing
a browser to the conference URL.