In this paper, we investigate the motion of a neutrally buoyant cylinder of
an elliptic shape freely moving in two dimensional shear flow by direct
numerical simulation. An elliptic shape cylinder in shear flow, when initially
being placed at the middle between two walls, either keeps rotating or has a
stationary inclination angle depending on the particle Reynolds number $Re=G_r
r_a^2/\nu$, where $G_r$ is the shear rate, $r_a$ is the semi-long axis of the
elliptic cylinder and $\nu$ is the kinetic viscosity of the fluid. The critical
particle Reynolds number $Re_{cr}$ for the transition from a rotating motion to
a stationary orientation depends on the aspect ratio $AR=r_b/r_a$ and the
confined ratio $K=2r_a/H$ where $r_b$ is the semi-short axis of the elliptic
cylinder and $H$ is the distance between two walls. Although the increasing of
either parameters makes an increase in $Re_{cr}$, the dynamic mechanism is
distinct. The $AR$ variation causes the change of geometry shape; however, the
$K$ variation influences the wall effect. The stationary inclination angle of
non-rotating slender elliptic cylinder with smaller confined ratio seems to
depend only on the value of $Re-Re_{cr}$. An expected equilibrium position of
the cylinder mass center in shear flow is the centerline between two walls, but
when placing the particle away from the centerline initially, it migrates
either toward an equilibrium height away from the middle between two walls or
back to the middle depending on the confined ratio and particle Reynolds
number.