Sedimentation of a solid phase is widely encountered in applications and
environmental flows, yet little is known about the behavior of finite-size
particles in homogeneous isotropic turbulence. To fill this gap, we perform
Direct Numerical Simulations of sedimentation in quiescent and turbulent
environments using an Immersed Boundary Method to account for the dispersed
rigid spherical particles. The solid volume fractions considered are 0.5-1%,
while the solid to fluid density ratio is 1.02. The particle radius is chosen
to be approximately 6 Komlogorov lengthscales. The results show that the mean
settling velocity is lower in an already turbulent flow than in a still fluid.
The reduction with respect to a single particle in quiescent fluid is about 12%
and 14% for the two volume fractions investigated. The probability density
function of the particle velocity is almost Gaussian in a turbulent flow,
whereas it displays large positive tails in still fluid. These tails are
associated to the rare fast sedimentation of particle pairs in
drafting-kissing-tumbling motions. The particle lateral dispersion is higher in
a turbulent flow, whereas the vertical one is, surprisingly, of comparable
magnitude as a consequence of the highly intermittent behavior observed in the
quiescent fluid. Using the concept of mean relative velocity we estimate the
mean drag coefficient from empirical formulas and show that non stationary
effects, related to vortex shedding, explain the increased reduction in mean
settling velocity in a turbulent environment.