Robust heteroclinic cycles are known to change stability in resonance
bifurcations, which occur when an algebraic condition on the eigenvalues of the
system is satisfied and which typically result in the creation or destruction
of a long-period periodic orbit. Resonance bifurcations for heteroclinic
networks are more complicated because different subcycles in the network can
undergo resonance at different parameter values, but have, until now, not been
systematically studied. In this article we present the first investigation of
resonance bifurcations in heteroclinic networks. Specifically, we study two
heteroclinic networks in $\R^4$ and consider the dynamics that occurs as
various subcycles in each network change stability. The two cases are
distinguished by whether or not one of the equilibria in the network has real
or complex contracting eigenvalues. We construct two-dimensional Poincare
return maps and use these to investigate the dynamics of trajectories near the
network. At least one equilibrium solution in each network has a
two-dimensional unstable manifold, and we use the technique developed in [18]
to keep track of all trajectories within these manifolds. In the case with real
eigenvalues, we show that the asymptotically stable network loses stability
first when one of two distinguished cycles in the network goes through
resonance and two or six periodic orbits appear. In the complex case, we show
that an infinite number of stable and unstable periodic orbits are created at
resonance, and these may coexist with a chaotic attractor. There is a further
resonance, for which the eigenvalue combination is a property of the entire
network, after which the periodic orbits which originated from the individual
resonances may interact. We illustrate some of our results with a numerical
example.