We use the Detrended Cross-Correlation Analysis (DCCA) to investigate the
influence of sun activity represented by sunspot numbers on one of the climate
indicators, specifically rivers, represented by river flow fluctuation for
Daugava, Holston, Nolichucky and French Broad rivers. The Multifractal
Detrended Cross-Correlation Analysis (MF-DXA) shows that there exist some
crossovers in the cross-correlation fluctuation function versus time scale of
the river flow and sunspot series. One of these crossovers corresponds to the
well-known cycle of solar activity demonstrating a universal property of the
mentioned rivers. The scaling exponent given by DCCA for original series at
intermediate time scale, $(12-24)\leq s\leq 130$ months, is $\lambda =
1.17\pm0.04$ which is almost similar for all underlying rivers at
$1\sigma$confidence interval showing the second universal behavior of river
runoffs. To remove the sinusoidal trends embedded in data sets, we apply the
Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) method. Our results show that there exists a
long-range cross-correlation between the sunspot numbers and the underlying
streamflow records. The magnitude of the scaling exponent and the corresponding
cross-correlation exponent are $\lambda\in (0.76, 0.85)$ and
$\gamma_{\times}\in(0.30, 0.48)$, respectively. Different values for scaling
and cross-correlation exponents may be related to local and external factors
such as topography, drainage network morphology, human activity and so on.
Multifractal cross-correlation analysis demonstrates that all underlying
fluctuations have almost weak multifractal nature which is also a universal
property for data series. In addition the empirical relation between scaling
exponent derived by DCCA and Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (DFA), $
\lambda\approx(h_{\rm sun} + h_{\rm river})/2$ is confirmed.