Initially TCP was designed with the notion in mind that wired networks are
generally reliable and any segment loss in a transmission is due to congestion
in the network rather than an unreliable medium (The assumptions is that the
packet loss caused by damage is much less than 1 percent) . This notion doesnt
hold in wireless parts of the network. Wireless links are highly unreliable and
they lose segments all the time due to a number of factors. Very few papers are
available which uses TCP for MANET. In this paper, an attempt have been made to
justify the use of TCP variants (Tahoe and Reno) for loss of packet due to
random noise introduces in the MANET. For the present analysis the simulation
has been carried out for TCP variants (Tahoe and Reno) by introduces 0, 10, 20
and 30 percent noise. The comparison of TCP variants is made by running
simulation for 0, 10, 20 and 30 percent of data packet loss due to noise in the
transmission link and the effect of throughput and congestion window has been
examined. During the simulation we have observed that throughput has been
decreased when a drop of multiple segments happens, further we have observed in
the case of TCP variant (Reno) throughput is better at 1 percent (Figure 5)
which implies a network with short burst of error and low BER, causing only one
segment to be lost. When multiple segments are lost due to error prone nature
of link, Tahoe perform better than Reno (Figure 13), that gives a significant
saving of time (64.28 percent) in comparison with Reno (Table 4). Several
simulations have been run with ns 2 simulator in order to acquire a better
understanding of these TCP variants and the way they perform their function. We
conclude with a discussion of whether these TCP versions can be used in Mobile
Ad hoc Network.