We attempt to better understand the flow of marine ice sheets. Treating ice
as a viscous shear-thinning power law fluid, we develop an asymptotic
(late-time) theory in two cases - the presence or absence of contact with
sidewalls. Most real-world situations fall somewhere between the two extreme
cases considered. When sidewalls are absent, we obtain the equilibrium
grounding line thickness using a simple computer model and have an analytic
approximation. For shelves in contact with sidewalls, we obtain an asymptotic
theory, valid for long shelves. Our theory is based on the velocity profile
across the channel being a generalised version of Poiseuille flow, which works
when lateral shear dominates the force balance. We determine when this is.
  We conducted experiments using a laboratory model for ice. This was a
suspension of xanthan in water, at a concentration of 0.5% by mass. The lab
model has $n \approx 3.8$ (similar to that of ice). The experiments agreed
extremely well with our theories for all relevant parameters (front position,
thickness profile, lateral velocity profile, longitudinal velocity gradient and
grounding line thickness). We also saw detailed features similar to natural
systems. Thus, we believe we have understood the dominant force balance in both
types of ice shelf.
  Our work has implications for the collapse of ice shelves, such as Larsen B.
We show roughly why it collapsed, based on an instability whereby breaking off
part of the shelf exposes more area to the ocean and leads to an increased rate
of iceberg formation. The complete collapse of the shelf leads to the loss of
buttressing exerted by the sidewalls and an increase in the rate of flow. This
can be estimated using our equations and the initial rate of flow and
topography. Ice tongues are much more stable but ice sheets which enter the
ocean without feeding an ice shelf may be unstable.