We investigate the statistics of fluctuations in a classical stochastic
network of nodes joined by connectors. The nodes carry generalized charge that
may be randomly transferred from one node to another. Our goal is to find the
time evolution of the probability distribution of charges in the network. The
building blocks of our theoretical approach are (1) known probability
distributions for the connector currents, (2) physical constraints such as
local charge conservation, and (3) a time-scale separation between the slow
charge dynamics of the nodes and the fast current fluctuations of the
connectors. We derive a stochastic path integral representation of the
evolution operator for the slow charges. Once the probability distributions on
the discrete network have been studied, the continuum limit is taken to obtain
a statistical field theory. We find a correspondence between the diffusive
field theory and a Langevin equation with Gaussian noise sources, leading
nevertheless to non-trivial fluctuation statistics. To complete our theory, we
demonstrate that the cascade diagrammatics, recently introduced by Nagaev,
naturally follows from the stochastic path integral. We extend the
diagrammatics to calculate current correlation functions for an arbitrary
network. One primary application of this formalism is that of full counting
statistics (FCS). We stress however, that the formalism is suitable for general
classical stochastic problems as an alternative to the traditional master
equation or Doi-Peliti technique. The formalism is illustrated with several
examples: both instantaneous and time averaged charge fluctuation statistics in
a mesoscopic chaotic cavity, as well as the FCS and new results for a
generalized diffusive wire.