Vaccination is widely recognized as the most effective way of immunization
against many infectious diseases. However, unfounded claims about supposed side
effects of some vaccines have contributed to spread concern and fear among
people, thus inducing vaccination refusal. For instance, MMR vaccine coverage
has undergone an important decrease in a large part of Europe and US as a
consequence of erroneously alleged side effects, leading to recent measles
outbreaks. In this work, we propose a general agent-based model to study the
spread of vaccination behavior in social networks, not as an isolated binary
opinion spreading on it, but as part of a process of cultural dissemination in
the spirit of Axelrod's model. We particularly focused on the impact of a small
anti-vaccination movement over an initial population of pro-vaccination social
agents. Additionally, we have considered two classes of edges in the underlying
social network: personal edges able to spread both opinions and diseases; and
the non-personal ones representing interactions mediated by information
technologies, which only allow opinion exchanges. We study the clustering of
unvaccinated agents as a dynamical outcome of the model, together with its
direct relation with the increase of the probability of occurrence and the
final size of measles outbreaks. Finally, we illustrate the mitigating effect
of a public health campaign, represented by an external field, against the
harmful action of anti-vaccination movements. We show that the topological
characteristics of the clusters of unvaccinated agents determine the scopes of
this mitigating effect.