Despite 30+ years of intensive research, the distributed computing community
still does not have a practical answer to non-crash faults of the machines that
comprise a distributed system. In particular, Byzantine fault-tolerance (BFT),
that promises to handle such faults, has not lived to expectations due to its
resource and operation overhead with respect to its crash fault-tolerant(CFT)
counterparts. This overhead comes from the worst-case assumption about
Byzantine faults, in the sense that some coordinated adversarial activity
controls the faulty machines and the entire network at will. To practitioners,
however, such strong attacks appear irrelevant.
  In this paper, we introduce XFT (\cross fault tolerance"), a novel approach
to building reliable distributed systems, that decouples the fault space across
the machine and network faults dimensions, treating machine faults and network
asynchrony separately. This is in sharp contrast to the existing CFT and BFT
models that discern system faults only along the machine fault dimension. XFT
offers much more flexibility than traditional synchronous and asynchronous
models that (too strictly) fix the network fault model of interest regardless
of the machine faults.
  As the showcase for XFT, we present Paxos++: the first state machine
replication protocol in the XFT model. Paxos++ tolerates faults beyond crashes
in an efficient and practical way, featuring many more nines of reliability
than the celebrated crash-tolerant Paxos protocol, without impacting its
resource/operation costs while maintaining the same performance (common-case
communication complexity among replicas). Surprisingly, Paxos++ sometimes
(depending on the system environment) even offers strictly stronger reliability
guarantees than state-of-the-art BFT replication protocols.