We use autocorrelation to investigate evolution in flow fields inferred by
applying Fourier Local Correlation Tracking (FLCT) to a sequence of
high-resolution (0.3 \arcsec), high-cadence ($\simeq 2$ min) line-of-sight
magnetograms of NOAA active region (AR) 10930 recorded by the Narrowband Filter
Imager (NFI) of the Solar Optical Telescope (SOT) aboard the {\em Hinode}
satellite over 12--13 December 2006. To baseline the timescales of flow
evolution, we also autocorrelated the magnetograms, at several spatial
binnings, to characterize the lifetimes of active region magnetic structures
versus spatial scale. Autocorrelation of flow maps can be used to optimize
tracking parameters, to understand tracking algorithms' susceptibility to
noise, and to estimate flow lifetimes. Tracking parameters varied include: time
interval $\Delta t$ between magnetogram pairs tracked, spatial binning applied
to the magnetograms, and windowing parameter $\sigma$ used in FLCT. Flow
structures vary over a range of spatial and temporal scales (including
unresolved scales), so tracked flows represent a local average of the flow over
a particular range of space and time. We define flow lifetime to be the flow
decorrelation time, $\tau$. For $\Delta t > \tau$, tracking results represent
the average velocity over one or more flow lifetimes. We analyze lifetimes of
flow components, divergences, and curls as functions of magnetic field strength
and spatial scale. We find a significant trend of increasing lifetimes of flow
components, divergences, and curls with field strength, consistent with Lorentz
forces partially governing flows in the active photosphere, as well as strong
trends of increasing flow lifetime and decreasing magnitudes with increases in
both spatial scale and $\Delta t$.