In this paper, we study a security problem on Level-I/II (n1 , n2 ) wiretap
networks, consisting of a source node S, a destination node T, and an
intermediate node R. The intermediate node connects the source and the
destination nodes via a set of noiseless parallel channels, with sizes n1 and
n2, respectively. A message M is to be sent from S to R. The information in the
network may be eavesdropped by a set of wiretappers. A random key K is
generated at S and a coding scheme on (M,K) is employed to protect M. We define
two decoding levels at R: In Level-I, only M is required to be recovered and in
Level-II, both M and K are required to be recovered. The objective is to
minimize H(K)/H(M) under the perfect secrecy constraint. The first question we
addressed is whether routing is optimal on this simple network. By enumerating
all the wiretap patterns on the Level-I/II (3, 3) networks and harnessing the
power of Shannon-type inequalities, we find that gaps exist between the bounds
implied by routing and the bounds implied by Shannon-type inequalities for a
small fraction (< 2%) of all the wiretap patterns. The second question we
investigated is what is minH(K)/H(M) for the remaining wiretap patterns where
gaps exist. We study some simple wiretap patterns and find that their Shannon
bounds (i.e., the lower bound induced by Shannon-type inequalities) can be
achieved by linear codes, which means routing is not sufficient even for the
(3, 3) network. For some complicated wiretap patterns, we study the structures
of linear coding schemes under the assumption that they can achieve the
corresponding Shannon bounds. The study indicates that the determination of the
entropic region of 6 linear vector spaces cannot be sidestepped. Some subtle
issues on the network models are discussed and interesting observations are
stated.