The hydrodynamic (hydro) model applied to heavy ion data from the
relativistic heavy ion collider (RHIC) in the form of single-particle spectra
and correlations seems to indicate that a dense QCD medium nearly opaque to
partons, a strongly-coupled quark-gluon plasma (sQGP), is formed in
more-central Au-Au collisions, and that the sQGP may have a very small
viscosity ("perfect liquid"). Measurements of radial and elliptic flows, with
possible coalescence of "constituent quarks" to form hadrons, seem to support
the conclusion. However, other measurements provide contradictory evidence.
Unbiased angular correlations indicate that a large number of back-to-back jets
from initial-state scattered partons with energies as low as 3 GeV survive as
"minijet" hadron correlations even in central Au-Au collisions, suggesting near
transparency. Two-component analysis of single-particle hadron spectra reveals
a corresponding spectrum hard component (parton fragment distribution described
by pQCD) which can masquerade as "radial flow" in some spectrum analysis.
Reinterpretation of "elliptic flow" as a QCD scattering process resulting in
fragmentation is also possible. In this paper I review analysis methods and
results in the context of two paradigms: the conventional
hydrodynamics/hard-probes paradigm and an alternative quadrupole/minijets
paradigm. Based on re-interpretation of fiducial data I argue that
hydrodynamics may not be relevant to RHIC collisions. Collision evolution may
be dominated by parton scattering and fragmentation, albeit the fragmentation
process is strongly modified in more-central A-A collisions.