Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a computational technique for
revealing latent factors that underlie sets of measurements or signals. It has
become a standard technique in functional neuroimaging. In functional
neuroimaging, so called group ICA (gICA) seeks to identify and quantify
networks of correlated regions across subjects. This paper reports on the
development of a new group ICA approach, Homotopic Group ICA (H-gICA), for
blind source separation of resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI) data. Resting state brain functional homotopy is the similarity of
spontaneous fluctuations between bilaterally symmetrically opposing regions
(i.e. those symmetric with respect to the mid-sagittal plane) (Zuo et al.,
2010). The approach we proposed improves network estimates by leveraging this
known brain functional homotopy. H-gICA increases the potential for network
discovery, effectively by averaging information across hemispheres. It is
theoretically proven to be identical to standard group ICA when the true
sources are both perfectly homotopic and noise-free, while simulation studies
and data explorations demonstrate its benefits in the presence of noise.
Moreover, compared to commonly applied group ICA algorithms, the structure of
the H-gICA input data leads to significant improvement in computational
efficiency. A simulation study comfirms its effectiveness in homotopic,
non-homotopic and mixed settings, as well as on the landmark ADHD-200 dataset.
From a relatively small subset of data, several brain networks were found
including: the visual, the default mode and auditory networks, as well as
others. These were shown to be more contiguous and clearly delineated than the
corresponding ordinary group ICA. Finally, in addition to improving network
estimation, H-gICA facilitates the investigation of functional homotopy via
ICA-based networks.