The k-shell decomposition of a random graph provides a different and more
insightful separation of the roles of the different nodes in such a graph than
does the usual analysis in terms of node degrees. We develop this approach in
order to analyze the Internet's structure at a coarse level, that of the
"Autonomous Systems" or ASes, the subnetworks out of which the Internet is
assembled. We employ new data from DIMES (see http://www.netdimes.org), a
distributed agent-based mapping effort which at present has attracted over 3800
volunteers running more than 7300 DIMES clients in over 85 countries. We
combine this data with the AS graph information available from the RouteViews
project at Univ. Oregon, and have obtained an Internet map with far more detail
than any previous effort.
  The data suggests a new picture of the AS-graph structure, which
distinguishes a relatively large, redundantly connected core of nearly 100 ASes
and two components that flow data in and out from this core. One component is
fractally interconnected through peer links; the second makes direct
connections to the core only. The model which results has superficial
similarities with and important differences from the "Jellyfish" structure
proposed by Tauro et al., so we call it a "Medusa." We plan to use this picture
as a framework for measuring and extrapolating changes in the Internet's
physical structure. Our k-shell analysis may also be relevant for estimating
the function of nodes in the "scale-free" graphs extracted from other
naturally-occurring processes.