A computational challenge to validate the candidate disease genes identified
in a high-throughput genomic study is to elucidate the associations between the
set of candidate genes and disease phenotypes. The conventional gene set
enrichment analysis often fails to reveal associations between disease
phenotypes and the gene sets with a short list of poorly annotated genes,
because the existing annotations of disease causative genes are incomplete. We
propose a network-based computational approach called rcNet to discover the
associations between gene sets and disease phenotypes. Assuming coherent
associations between the genes ranked by their relevance to the query gene set,
and the disease phenotypes ranked by their relevance to the hidden target
disease phenotypes of the query gene set, we formulate a learning framework
maximizing the rank coherence with respect to the known disease phenotype-gene
associations. An efficient algorithm coupling ridge regression with label
propagation, and two variants are introduced to find the optimal solution of
the framework. We evaluated the rcNet algorithms and existing baseline methods
with both leave-one-out cross-validation and a task of predicting recently
discovered disease-gene associations in OMIM. The experiments demonstrated that
the rcNet algorithms achieved the best overall rankings compared to the
baselines. To further validate the reproducibility of the performance, we
applied the algorithms to identify the target diseases of novel candidate
disease genes obtained from recent studies of GWAS, DNA copy number variation
analysis, and gene expression profiling. The algorithms ranked the target
disease of the candidate genes at the top of the rank list in many cases across
all the three case studies. The rcNet algorithms are available as a webtool for
disease and gene set association analysis at
http://compbio.cs.umn.edu/dgsa_rcNet.