This study is motivated by two different, yet, connected, motivations. The
first one follows the observation that the classical definition of derivatives
involves prospective (or forward) difference quotients, not known whenever the
time is directed, at least at the macroscopic level. Actually, the available
and known derivatives are retrospective (or backward). They co\"incide whenever
the functions are differentiable in the classical sense, but not in the case of
non smooth maps, single-valued or set-valued. The later ones are used in
differential inclusions (and thus, in uncertain control systems) governing
evolutions in function of time and state. We follow the plea of some physicists
for taking also into account the retrospective derivatives to study prospective
evolutions in function of time, state and retrospective derivatives, a
particular, but specific, example of historical of ''path dependent''
evolutionary systems. This is even more crucial in life sciences, in the
absence of experimentation of uncertain evolutionary systems. The second
motivation emerged from the study of networks with junctions (cross-roads in
traffic networks, synapses in neural networks, banks in financial networks,
etc.), an important feature of ''complex systems''. At each junction, the
velocities of the incoming (retrospective) and outgoing (prospective)
evolutions are confronted. One measure of this confrontation (''jerkiness'') is
provided by the product of the retrospective and prospective velocities,
negative in ''inhibitory'' junctions, positive for ''excitatory'' ones, for
instance. This leads to the introduction of the ''differential connection
tensor'' of two evolutions, defined as the tensor product of retrospective and
prospective derivatives, which can be used for controlling evolutionary systems
governing the evolutions through networks with junctions.