Background: Many biological systems are modeled qualitatively with discrete
models, such as probabilistic Boolean networks, logical models, Petri nets, and
agent-based models, with the goal to gain a better understanding of the system.
The computational complexity to analyze the complete dynamics of these models
grows exponentially in the number of variables, which impedes working with
complex models. Although there exist sophisticated algorithms to determine the
dynamics of discrete models, their implementations usually require
labor-intensive formatting of the model formulation, and they are oftentimes
not accessible to users without programming skills. Efficient analysis methods
are needed that are accessible to modelers and easy to use. Method: By
converting discrete models into algebraic models, tools from computational
algebra can be used to analyze their dynamics. Specifically, we propose a
method to identify attractors of a discrete model that is equivalent to solving
a system of polynomial equations, a long-studied problem in computer algebra.
Results: A method for efficiently identifying attractors, and the web-based
tool Analysis of Dynamic Algebraic Models (ADAM), which provides this and other
analysis methods for discrete models. ADAM converts several discrete model
types automatically into polynomial dynamical systems and analyzes their
dynamics using tools from computer algebra. Based on extensive experimentation
with both discrete models arising in systems biology and randomly generated
networks, we found that the algebraic algorithms presented in this manuscript
are fast for systems with the structure maintained by most biological systems,
namely sparseness, i.e., while the number of nodes in a biological network may
be quite large, each node is affected only by a small number of other nodes,
and robustness, i.e., small number of attractors.