Computing the shortest path between two given locations in a road network is
an important problem that finds applications in various map services and
commercial navigation products. The state-of-the-art solutions for the problem
can be divided into two categories: spatial-coherence-based methods and
vertex-importance-based approaches. The two categories of techniques, however,
have not been compared systematically under the same experimental framework, as
they were developed from two independent lines of research that do not refer to
each other. This renders it difficult for a practitioner to decide which
technique should be adopted for a specific application. Furthermore, the
experimental evaluation of the existing techniques, as presented in previous
work, falls short in several aspects. Some methods were tested only on small
road networks with up to one hundred thousand vertices; some approaches were
evaluated using distance queries (instead of shortest path queries), namely,
queries that ask only for the length of the shortest path; a state-of-the-art
technique was examined based on a faulty implementation that led to incorrect
query results. To address the above issues, this paper presents a comprehensive
comparison of the most advanced spatial-coherence-based and
vertex-importance-based approaches. Using a variety of real road networks with
up to twenty million vertices, we evaluated each technique in terms of its
preprocessing time, space consumption, and query efficiency (for both shortest
path and distance queries). Our experimental results reveal the characteristics
of different techniques, based on which we provide guidelines on selecting
appropriate methods for various scenarios.