This paper presents numerical solutions and idealized analytical solutions of
axisymmetric, $f$-plane models of the tropical cyclone boundary layer. In the
numerical model, the boundary layer radial and tangential flow is forced by a
specified pressure field, which can also be interpreted as a specified gradient
balanced tangential wind field $v_{\rm gr}(r)$ or vorticity field $\zeta_{\rm
gr}(r)$. When the specified $\zeta_{\rm gr}(r)$ field is changed from one that
is radially concentrated in the inner core to one that is radially spread, the
quasi-steady-state boundary layer flow transitions from a single eyewall
shock-like structure to a double eyewall shock-like structure. To better
understand these structures, analytical solutions are presented for two
simplified versions of the model. In the simplified analytical models, which do
not include horizontal diffusion, the $u(\partial u/\partial r)$ term in the
radial equation of motion and the $u[f+(\partial v/\partial r)+(v/r)]$ term in
the tangential equation of motion produce discontinuities in the radial and
tangential wind, with associated singularities in the boundary layer pumping
and the boundary layer vorticity. In the numerical model, which does include
horizontal diffusion, the radial and tangential wind structures are not true
discontinuities, but are shock-like, with wind changes of 20 or 30 m s$^{-1}$
over a radial distance of a few kilometers. When double shocks form, the outer
shock can control the strength of the inner shock, an effect that likely plays
an important role in concentric eyewall cycles.