Small-world networks by Watts and Strogatz are a class of networks that are
highly clustered, like regular lattices, yet have small characteristic path
lengths, like random graphs. These characteristics result in networks with
unique properties of regional specialization with efficient information
transfer. Social networks are intuitive examples of this organization with
cliques or clusters of friends being interconnected, but each person is really
only 5-6 people away from anyone else. While this qualitative definition has
prevailed in network science theory, in application, the standard quantitative
application is to compare path length (a surrogate measure of distributed
processing) and clustering (a surrogate measure of regional specialization) to
an equivalent random network. It is demonstrated here that comparing network
clustering to that of a random network can result in aberrant findings and
networks once thought to exhibit small-world properties may not. We propose a
new small-world metric, {\omega} (omega), which compares network clustering to
an equivalent lattice network and path length to a random network, as Watts and
Strogatz originally described. Example networks are presented that would be
interpreted as small-world when clustering is compared to a random network but
are not small-world according to {\omega}. These findings have significant
implications in network science as small-world networks have unique topological
properties, and it is critical to accurately distinguish them from networks
without simultaneous high clustering and low path length.