Measurements of small-scale turbulence made over the complex-terrain
atmospheric boundary layer during the MATERHORN Program are used to describe
the structure of turbulence in katabatic flows. Turbulent and mean
meteorological data were continuously measured at multiple levels at four
towers deployed along the East lower slope (2-4 deg) of Granite Mountain. The
multi-level observations made during a 30-day long MATERHORN-Fall field
campaign in September-October 2012 allowed studying of temporal and spatial
structure of katabatic flows in detail, and herein we report turbulence and
their variations in katabatic winds. Observed vertical profiles show steep
gradients near the surface, but in the layer above the slope jet the vertical
variability is smaller. It is found that the vertical (normal to the slope)
momentum flux and horizontal (along the slope) heat flux in a slope-following
coordinate system change their sign below and above the wind maximum of a
katabatic flow. The vertical momentum flux is directed downward (upward)
whereas the horizontal heat flux is downslope (upslope) below (above) the wind
maximum. Our study therefore suggests that the position of the jet-speed
maximum can be obtained by linear interpolation between positive and negative
values of the momentum flux (or the horizontal heat flux) to derive the height
where flux becomes zero. It is shown that the standard deviations of all wind
speed components (therefore the turbulent kinetic energy) and the dissipation
rate of turbulent kinetic energy have a local minimum, whereas the standard
deviation of air temperature has an absolute maximum at the height of
wind-speed maximum. We report several cases where the vertical and horizontal
heat fluxes are compensated. Turbulence above the wind-speed maximum is
decoupled from the surface, and follows the classical local z-less predictions
for stably stratified boundary layer.