Recently, our group quantitatively defined two quantities, "competition
ability" and "uniqueness" (Chin. Phys. Lett. 26 (2009) 058901) for a kind of
cooperation-competition bipartite networks, where "producers" produce some
"products" and "output" them to a "market" to make competition. Factories,
universities or restaurants can serve as the examples. In the letter we
presented an analytical conclusion that the competition ability was linearly
dependent on the uniqueness in the trivial cases, where both the "input
quality" and "competition gain" obey normal distributions. The competition
between Chinese regional universities was taken as examples. In this article we
discuss the abnormal cases where competition gains show the distributions near
to power laws. In addition, we extend the study onto all the
cooperation-competition bipartite networks and therefore redefine the
competition ability. The empirical investigation of the competition ability
dependence on the uniqueness in 15 real world collaboration-competition systems
is presented, 14 of which belong to the general nontrivial cases. We find that
the dependence generally follows the so-called "shifted power law (SPL)", but
very near to power laws. The empirically obtained heterogeneity indexes of the
distributions of competition ability and uniqueness are also presented. These
empirical investigations will be used as a supplementary of a future paper,
which will present the comparison and further discussions about the competition
ability dependence on the uniqueness in the abnormal collaboration-competition
systems and the relationship between the dependence and the competition ability
and uniqueness heterogeneity.