A stochastic model for the dynamics of enzymatic catalysis in explicit,
effective solvents under physiological conditions is presented.
Analytically-computed first passage time densities of a diffusing particle in a
spherical shell with absorbing boundaries are combined with densities obtained
from explicit simulation to obtain the overall probability density for the
total reaction cycle time of the enzymatic system. The method is used to
investigate the catalytic transfer of a phosphoryl group in a phosphoglycerate
kinase-ADP-bis phosphoglycerate system, one of the steps of glycolysis. The
direct simulation of the enzyme-substrate binding and reaction is carried out
using an elastic network model for the protein, and the solvent motions are
described by multiparticle collision dynamics, which incorporates hydrodynamic
flow effects. Systems where solvent-enzyme coupling occurs through explicit
intermolecular interactions, as well as systems where this coupling is taken
into account by including the protein and substrate in the multiparticle
collision step, are investigated and compared with simulations where
hydrodynamic coupling is absent. It is demonstrated that the flow of solvent
particles around the enzyme facilitates the large-scale hinge motion of the
enzyme with bound substrates, and has a significant impact on the shape of the
probability densities and average time scales of substrate binding for
substrates near the enzyme, the closure of the enzyme after binding, and the
overall time of completion of the cycle.