Primary visual cortex (V1) provides crucial insights into the selectivity and
emergence of specific output features such as orientation tuning. Tuning and
selectivity of cortical neurons in mouse visual cortex is not equivocally
resolved so far. While many in-vivo experimental studies found inhibitory
neurons of all subtypes to be broadly tuned for orientation other studies
report inhibitory neurons that are as sharply tuned as excitatory neurons.
These diverging findings about the selectivity of excitatory and inhibitory
cortical neurons prompted us to ask the following questions: (1) How different
or similar is the cortical computation with that in previously described
species that relies on map? (2) What is the network mechanism underlying the
sharpening of orientation selectivity in the mouse primary visual cortex? Here,
we investigate the above questions in a computational framework with a
recurrent network composed of Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) point neurons. Our cortical
network with random connectivity alone could not account for all the
experimental observations, which led us to hypothesize, (a) Orientation
dependent connectivity (b) Feedforward afferent specificity to understand
orientation selectivity of V1 neurons in mouse. Using population (orientation
selectivity index) OSI as a measure of neuronal selectivity to stimulus
orientation we test each hypothesis separately and in combination against
experimental data. Based on our analysis of orientation selectivity (OS) data
we find a good fit of network parameters in a model based on afferent
specificity and connectivity that scales with feature similarity. We conclude
that this particular model class best supports data sets of orientation
selectivity of excitatory and inhibitory neurons in layer 2/3 of primary visual
cortex of mouse.