Experiments and simulations of rotating Rayleigh-B\'enard convection in
cylindrical samples have revealed an increase in heat transport with increasing
rotation rate. This heat transport enhancement is intimately related to a
transition in the turbulent flow structure from a regime dominated by a
large-scale circulation (LSC), consisting of a single convection roll, at no or
weak rotation to a regime dominated by vertically-aligned vortices at strong
rotation. For a sample with an aspect ratio \Gamma = D/L = 1 (D is the sample
diameter and L its height) the transition between the two regimes is indicated
by a strong decrease in the LSC strength. In contrast, for \Gamma = 1/2 Weiss
and Ahlers [J. Fluid Mech. {\bf{688}}, 461 (2011)] revealed the presence of a
LSC-like sidewall temperature signature beyond the critical rotation rate. They
suggested that this might be due to the formation of a two-vortex state, in
which one vortex extends vertically from the bottom into the sample interior
and brings up warm fluid, while another vortex brings down cold fluid from the
top; this flow field would yield a sidewall temperature signature similar to
that of the LSC. Here we show by direct numerical simulations for \Gamma= 1/2
and parameters that allow direct comparison with experiment that the spatial
organization of the vertically-aligned vortical structures in the convection
cell do indeed yield (for the time average) a sinusoidal variation of the
temperature near the sidewall, as found in the experiment. This is also the
essential and non-trivial difference with the \Gamma=1 sample, where the
vertically-aligned vortices are distributed randomly.