Towards the goal of extracting the continuum properties, we have studied the
Topological Charge Density Correlator (TCDC) and the Inverse Participation
Ratio (IPR) for the topological charge density ($q(x)$) in SU(3) Lattice
Yang-Mills theory for relatively small lattice spacings including some smaller
than those explored before. With the help of recently proposed open boundary
condition, it is possible to compute observables at a smaller lattice spacing
since {\em trapping problem} is absent. On the other hand, the reference energy
scale provided by Wilson flow allows us to study their scaling behavior in
contrast to previously proposed smearing techniques. The behavior of TCDC for
different lattice spacings at a fixed HYP smearing level shows apparent scaling
violations. In contrast, at a particular Wilson flow time $t$ for all the
lattice spacings investigated (except the largest one), the TCDC data show
universal behavior within our statistical uncertainties. The continuum
properties of TCDC are studied by investigating the small flow time behavior.
We have also extracted the pseudoscalar glueball mass from TCDC, which appears
to be insensitive to the lattice spacings (0.0345 fm $\leq a\leq$ 0.0667 fm)
and agrees with the value extracted using anisotropic lattices, within
statistical errors. Further, we have studied the localization property of
$q(x)$ through IPR whose continuum behavior can be probed through the small
values of Wilson flow time and observed the decrease of IPR with decreasing
Wilson flow time. A detailed study of $q(x)$ under Wilson flow time revealed
that as Wilson flow time decreases, the proximity of the regions of positive
and negative charge densities of large magnitudes increases, and the charge
density appears to be more delocalized resulting in the observed behavior of
IPR.