In unicellular organisms such as bacteria the same acquired mutations
beneficial in one environment can be restrictive in another. However, evolving
Escherichia coli populations demonstrate remarkable flexibility in adaptation.
The mechanisms sustaining genetic flexibility remain unclear. In E. coli the
transcriptional regulation of gene expression involves both dedicated
regulators binding specific DNA sites with high affinity and also global
regulators - abundant DNA architectural proteins of the bacterial chromoid
binding multiple low affinity sites and thus modulating the superhelical
density of DNA. The first form of transcriptional regulation is dominantly
pairwise and specific, representing digitial control, while the second form is
(in strength and distribution) continuous, representing analog control. Here we
look at the properties of effective networks derived from significant gene
expression changes under variation of the two forms of control and find that
upon limitations of one type of control (caused e.g. by mutation of a global
DNA architectural factor) the other type can compensate for compromised
regulation. Mutations of global regulators significantly enhance the digital
control; in the presence of global DNA architectural proteins regulation is
mostly of the analog type, coupling spatially neighboring genomic loci;
together our data suggest that two logically distinct types of control are
balancing each other. By revealing two distinct logical types of control, our
approach provides basic insights into both the organizational principles of
transcriptional regulation and the mechanisms buffering genetic flexibility. We
anticipate that the general concept of distinguishing logical types of control
will apply to many complex biological networks.