Nullification of the Einstein tensor curvature for the elementary material
space with active gravitational field (radial source) and passive field
distribution of its inertial particle (radial sink) maintains the conceptual
equivalence of collinear active and passive energy-momentum densities of the
nonlocal energy-matter carrier in General Relativity (GR). The Ricci scalar
curvature in the Lagrangian for electron's material space is related to active
and passive real mass densities with residual positive energy, while
electromagnetic (EM) active and passive imaginary mass densities produce a
traceless energy density. One four-potential in geometrical sink-source
identities universally forms gravitational and electromagnetic fields of the
complex mass current. EM vector equalities balance anti-collinear four flows of
active and passive imaginary masses (called electric charges). Similar GR
vector equalities take into account twin coupling of inseparable unlike mass
densities existing due to the forth-coordinate symmetry, $ dt = |\pm idx^4/c|$,
in the Minkowski four-interval. Two equal pseudo-coordinates $\pm ix^o\equiv
\pm x^4 $ serve for equal unlike masses of the same inertial body that results
in collinear active and passive four-currents of real masses with net
energy-momentum for collisions and measurements. Couples of unlike twin masses
can simultaneously radiate-absorb paired vector waves with zero-balanced
Poynting flows for real-time observations in the two-body gravitational system.
Such paired vector waves form tensor gravitons which cannot be screened by
third bodies or intercepted by interferometers.