Metabolic networks perform some of the most fundamental functions in living
cells, including energy transduction and building block biosynthesis. While
these are the best characterized networks in living systems, understanding
their evolutionary history and complex wiring constitutes one of the most
fascinating open questions in biology, intimately related to the enigma of
life's origin itself. Is the evolution of metabolism subject to general
principles, beyond the unpredictable accumulation of multiple historical
accidents? Here we search for such principles by applying to an artificial
chemical universe some of the methodologies developed for the study of genome
scale models of cellular metabolism. In particular, we use metabolic flux
constraint-based models to exhaustively search for artificial chemistry
pathways that can optimally perform an array of elementary metabolic functions.
Despite the simplicity of the model employed, we find that the ensuing pathways
display a surprisingly rich set of properties, including the existence of
autocatalytic cycles and hierarchical modules, the appearance of universally
preferable metabolites and reactions, and a logarithmic trend of pathway length
as a function of input/output molecule size. Some of these properties can be
derived analytically, borrowing methods previously used in cryptography. In
addition, by mapping biochemical networks onto a simplified carbon atom
reaction backbone, we find that several of the properties predicted by the
artificial chemistry model hold for real metabolic networks. These findings
suggest that optimality principles and arithmetic simplicity might lie beneath
some aspects of biochemical complexity.