Now a days, a new family of web applications open applications, are emerging
(e.g., Social Networking, News and Blogging). Generally, these open
applications are non-confidential. The security needs of these applications are
only client/server authentication and data integrity. For securing these open
applications, effectively and efficiently, HTTPI, a new transport protocol is
proposed, which ensures the entire security requirements of open applications.
Benefit of using the HTTPI is that it is economical in use, well-suited for
cache proxies, like HTTP is, and provides security against many Internet
attacks (Server Impersonation and Message Modification) like HTTPS does. In
terms of performance HTTPI is very close to the HTTP, but much better than
HTTPS. A Web service is a method of communication between two ends over the
Internet. These web services are developed over XML and HTTP. Today, most of
the open applications use web services for most of their operations. For
securing these web services, security design based on HTTPI is proposed. Our
work involves securing the web services over SOAP, based on the HTTPI. This
secure web service might be applicable for open applications, where
authentication and integrity is needed, but no confidentiality required. In our
paper, we introduce a web service security model based on HTTPI protocol over
SOAP and develop a preliminary implementation of this model. We also analyze
the performance of our approach through an experiment and show that our
proposed approach provides higher throughput, lower average response time and
lower response size than HTTPS based web service security approach.