Energy-harvesting wireless sensor networking is an emerging technology with
applications to various fields such as environmental and structural health
monitoring. A distinguishing feature of wireless sensors is the need to perform
both source coding tasks, such as measurement and compression, and transmission
tasks. It is known that the overall energy consumption for source coding is
generally comparable to that of transmission, and that a joint design of the
two classes of tasks can lead to relevant performance gains. Moreover, the
efficiency of source coding in a sensor network can be potentially improved via
distributed techniques by leveraging the fact that signals measured by
different nodes are correlated.
  In this paper, a data gathering protocol for multihop wireless sensor
networks with energy harvesting capabilities is studied whereby the sources
measured by the sensors are correlated. Both the energy consumptions of source
coding and transmission are modeled, and distributed source coding is assumed.
The problem of dynamically and jointly optimizing the source coding and
transmission strategies is formulated for time-varying channels and sources.
The problem consists in the minimization of a cost function of the distortions
in the source reconstructions at the sink under queue stability constraints. By
adopting perturbation-based Lyapunov techniques, a close-to-optimal online
scheme is proposed that has an explicit and controllable trade-off between
optimality gap and queue sizes. The role of side information available at the
sink is also discussed under the assumption that acquiring the side information
entails an energy cost. It is shown that the presence of side information can
improve the network performance both in terms of overall network cost function
and queue sizes.