Consistency of trans-unification RG evolution is used to discuss the domain
of definition of the NMSO(10)GUT. We compute the 1-loop RGE $\beta$
functions,simplifying generic Martin-Vaughn formulae using constraints of gauge
invariance and superpotential structure. We also calculate the 2 loop
contributions to the gauge coupling and gaugino mass and indicate how to get
full 2 loop results for all couplings. Our method overcomes combinatorial
barriers that frustrate computer algebra based attempts to calculate SO(10)
$\beta$ functions involving large irreps. Use of the RGEs identifies a
perturbative domain $Q < M_E$, where at the \emph{scale of emergence} $M_E <
M_{Planck}$ the NMSGUT, with GUT compatible soft supersymmetry breaking terms,
and canonical Kinetic terms, emerges from the strong UV dynamics associated
with the Landau poles in gauge and Yukawa couplings. Due to the strength of the
RG flows the Landau Polar regime for gauge and Yukawa couplings begins at a
scale $\Lambda_E $ just above $M_E$ and the interpretation of the NMSGUT as an
effective theory cut off by $\Lambda_E $ is well motivated. The large number
($N_X$) of superheavy fields makes it plausible that the observed Planck scale
arises ($M_{Pl}\sim \sqrt{N_X} M_{GUT} $) from the wave function
renormalization of the metric due to GUT scale massive fluctuations but is well
separated from it. SO(10) IR flows facilitate small gaugino masses and
generation of negative Non Universal Higgs masses squared needed by fully
realistic NMSGUT fits of low energy data. Running the simple canonical theory
emergent at $M_E$ through $M_X$ down to the electroweak scale enables tests of
candidate scenarios such as supergravity based NMSGUT with canonical kinetic
terms and NMSGUT based dynamical Yukawa Unification.