Vesicles are becoming a quite popular model for the study of red blood cells
(RBCs). This is a free boundary problem which is rather difficult to handle
theoretically. Quantitative computational approaches constitute also a
challenge. In addition, with numerical studies, it is not easy to scan within a
reasonable time the whole parameter space. Therefore, having quantitative
analytical results is an essential advance that provides deeper understanding
of observed features and can be used to accompany and possibly guide further
numerical development. In this paper shape evolution equations for a vesicle in
a shear flow are derived analytically with precision being cubic (which is
quadratic in previous theories) with regard to the deformation of the vesicle
relative to a spherical shape. The phase diagram distinguishing regions of
parameters where different types of motion (tank-treading, tumbling and
vacillating-breathing) are manifested is presented. This theory reveals
unsuspected features: including higher order terms and harmonics (even if they
are not directly excited by the shear flow) is necessary, whatever the shape is
close to a sphere. Not only does this theory cure a quite large quantitative
discrepancy between previous theories and recent experiments and numerical
studies, but also it reveals a new phenomenon: the VB mode band in parameter
space, which is believed to saturate after a moderate shear rate, exhibits a
striking widening beyond a critical shear rate. The widening results from
excitation of fourth order harmonic. The obtained phase diagram is in a
remarkably good agreement with recent three dimensional numerical simulations
based on the boundary integral formulation. Comparison of our results with
experiments is systematically made.