This paper proposes a novel congestion control algorithm for low-delay
communication over best effort packet switched networks. Due to the presence of
buffers in the internal network nodes, each congestion leads to buffer queueing
and thus to an increasing delivery delay. It is therefore essential to properly
control congestions in delay-sensitive applications. Delay-based congestion
algorithms could offer a viable solution since they tend to minimize the
queueing delay. Unfortunately they do not cohabit well with other types of
congestion algorithms, such as loss-based algorithms, that are not regulated by
delay constraints. Our target is to propose a congestion control algorithm able
to both maintain a low queueing delay when the network conditions allows for it
and to avoid starvation when competing against flows controlled by other types
of policies. Our Low-Delay Congestion Control algorithm exactly achieves this
double objective by using a non-linear mapping between the experienced delay
and the penalty value used in rate update equation in the controller, and by
combining delay and loss feedback information in a single term based on packet
interarrival measurements. We provide a stability analysis of our new algorithm
and show its performance in simulation results that are carried out in the NS3
framework. They show that our algorithm compares favorably to other congestion
control algorithms that share similar objectives. In particular, the simulation
results show good fairness properties of our controller in different scenarios,
with relatively low self inflicted delay and good ability to work also in lossy
environments.