Inertial-range asymptotic behavior of a vector (e.g., magnetic) field,
passively advected by a strongly anisotropic turbulent flow, is studied by
means of the field theoretic renormalization group and the operator product
expansion. The advecting velocity field is Gaussian, not correlated in time,
with the pair correlation function of the form $\propto \delta(t-t') /
k_{\bot}^{d-1+\xi}$, where $k_{\bot}=|{\bf k}_{\bot}|$ and ${\bf k}_{\bot}$ is
the component of the wave vector, perpendicular to the distinguished direction
(`direction of the flow') -- the $d$-dimensional generalization of the ensemble
introduced by Avellaneda and Majda [{\it Commun. Math. Phys.} {\bf 131}: 381
(1990)]. The stochastic advection-diffusion equation for the transverse
(divergence-free) vector field includes, as special cases, the kinematic dynamo
model for magnetohydrodynamic turbulence and the linearized Navier--Stokes
equation. In contrast to the well known isotropic Kraichnan's model, where
various correlation functions exhibit anomalous scaling behavior with infinite
sets of anomalous exponents, here the dependence on the integral turbulence
scale $L$ has a logarithmic behavior: instead of power-like corrections to
ordinary scaling, determined by naive (canonical) dimensions, the anomalies
manifest themselves as polynomials of logarithms of $L$. The key point is that
the matrices of scaling dimensions of the relevant families of composite
operators appear nilpotent and cannot be diagonalized. The detailed proof of
this fact is given for correlation functions of arbitrary order.