We address the polling problem in social networks where individuals
collaborate to choose the most favorite choice amongst some options, without
divulging their vote and publicly exposing their potentially malicious actions.
Given this social interaction model, Guerraoui et al. recently proposed polling
protocols that do not rely on any central contributority or cryptography system,
using a simple secret sharing scheme along with verification procedures to
accurately compute the poll's final result. However, these protocols can be
deployed safely and efficiently provided that, inter alia, the social graph
structure should be transformed into a ring structure-based overlay and the
number of participating users is perfect square. Consequently, designing
\emph{secure} and \emph{efficient} polling protocols regardless these
constraints remains a challenging issue.
  In this paper, we present EPol, a simple decentralized polling protocol that
relies on the current state of social graphs. More explicitly, we define one
family of social graphs that satisfy what we call the $m$-broadcasting property
(where $m$ is less than or equal to the minimum node degree) and show their
structures enable low communication cost and constitute necessary and
sufficient condition to ensure vote privacy and limit the impact of dishonest
users on the accuracy of the polling output. Our protocol is effective to
compute more precisely the final result. Furthermore, despite the use of richer
social graph structures, the communication and spatial complexities of EPol are
close to be linear.