We present a new version of a dynamical spectral model for Large Eddy
Simulation based on the Eddy Damped Quasi Normal Markovian approximation
\cite{sao,chollet_lesieur}. Three distinct modifications are implemented and
tested. On the one hand, whereas in current approaches, a Kolmogorov-like
energy spectrum is usually assumed in order to evaluate the nonlocal transfer,
in our method the energy spectrum of the subgrid scales adapts itself
dynamically to the large-scale resolved spectrum; this first modification
allows in particular for a better treatment of transient phases and
instabilities, as shown on one specific example. Moreover, the model takes into
account the phase relationships of the small-scales, embodied for example in
strong localized structures such as vortex filaments. To that effect, phase
information is implemented in the treatment of the so-called eddy noise in the
closure model. Finally, we also consider the role that helical small scales may
play in the evaluation of the transfer of energy and helicity, the two
invariants of the primitive equations in the inviscid case; this leads as well
to intrinsic variations in the development of helicity spectra. Therefore, our
model allows for simulations of flows for a variety of circumstances and a
priori at any given Reynolds number. Comparisons with Direct Numerical
Simulations of the three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equation are performed on
fluids driven by an ABC (Beltrami) flow which is a prototype of fully helical
flows. Good agreements are obtained for physical and spectral behavior of the
large scales.