Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence Cross Correlation Spectroscopy
(TIR-FCCS) has recently (S. Yordanov et al., Optics Express 17, 21149 (2009))
been established as an experimental method to probe hydrodynamic flows near
surfaces, on length scales of tens of nanometers. Its main advantage is that
fluorescence only occurs for tracer particles close to the surface, thus
resulting in high sensitivity. However, the measured correlation functions only
provide rather indirect information about the flow parameters of interest, such
as the shear rate and the slip length. In the present paper, we show how to
combine detailed and fairly realistic theoretical modeling of the phenomena by
Brownian Dynamics simulations with accurate measurements of the correlation
functions, in order to establish a quantitative method to retrieve the flow
properties from the experiments. Firstly, Brownian Dynamics is used to sample
highly accurate correlation functions for a fixed set of model parameters.
Secondly, these parameters are varied systematically by means of an
importance-sampling Monte Carlo procedure in order to fit the experiments. This
provides the optimum parameter values together with their statistical error
bars. The approach is well suited for massively parallel computers, which
allows us to do the data analysis within moderate computing times. The method
is applied to flow near a hydrophilic surface, where the slip length is
observed to be smaller than 10nm, and, within the limitations of the
experiments and the model, indistinguishable from zero.