Rapid urbanization places increasing stress on already burdened
transportation systems, resulting in delays and poor levels of service.
Billions of spatiotemporal call detail records (CDRs) collected from mobile
devices create new opportunities to quantify and solve these problems. However,
there is a need for tools to map new data onto existing transportation
infrastructure. In this work, we propose a system that leverages this data to
identify patterns in road usage. First, we develop an algorithm to mine
billions of calls and learn location transition probabilities of callers. These
transition probabilities are then upscaled with demographic data to estimate
origin-destination (OD) flows of residents between any two intersections of a
city. Next, we implement a distributed incremental traffic assignment algorithm
to route these flows on road networks and estimate congestion and level of
service for each roadway. From this assignment, we construct a bipartite usage
network by connecting census tracts to the roads used by their inhabitants.
Comparing the topologies of the physical road network and bipartite usage
network allows us to classify each road's role in a city's transportation
network and detect causes of local bottlenecks. Finally, we demonstrate an
interactive, web-based visualization platform that allows researchers,
policymakers, and drivers to explore road congestion and usage in a new
dimension. To demonstrate the flexibility of this system, we perform these
analyses in multiple cities across the globe with diverse geographical and
sociodemographic qualities. This platform provides a foundation to build
congestion mitigation solutions and generate new insights into urban mobility.