The radiance and Doppler-shift distributions across the solar network provide
observational constraints of two-dimensional modeling of transition-region
emission and flows in coronal funnels. Two different methods, dispersion plots
and average-profile studies, were applied to investigate these distributions.
In the dispersion plots, we divided the entire scanned region into a bright and
a dark part according to an image of Fe xii; we plotted intensities and Doppler
shifts in each bin as determined according to a filtered intensity of Si ii. We
also studied the difference in height variations of the magnetic field as
extrapolated from the MDI magnetogram, in and outside network. For the
average-profile study, we selected 74 individual cases and derived the average
profiles of intensities and Doppler shifts across the network. The dispersion
plots reveal that the intensities of Si ii and C iv increase from network
boundary to network center in both parts. However, the intensity of Ne viii
shows different trends, namely increasing in the bright part and decreasing in
the dark part. In both parts, the Doppler shift of C iv increases steadily from
internetwork to network center. The average-profile study reveals that the
intensities of the three lines all decline from the network center to
internetwork region. The binned intensities of Si ii and Ne viii have a good
correlation. We also find that the large blue shift of Ne viii does not
coincide with large red shift of C iv. Our results suggest that the network
structure is still prominent at the layer where Ne viii is formed in the quiet
Sun, and that the magnetic structures expand more strongly in the dark part
than in the bright part of this quiet Sun region.