We present a coarse-grid projection (CGP) method for accelerating
incompressible flow computations, which is applicable to methods involving
Poisson equations as incompressibility constraints. The CGP methodology is a
modular approach that facilitates data transfer with simple interpolations and
uses black-box solvers for the Poisson and advection-diffusion equations in the
flow solver. After solving the Poisson equation on a coarsened grid, an
interpolation scheme is used to obtain the fine data for subsequent time
stepping on the full grid. A particular version of the method is applied here
to the vorticity-stream function, primitive variable, and vorticity-velocity
formulations of incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. We compute several
benchmark flow problems on two-dimensional Cartesian and non-Cartesian grids,
as well as a three-dimensional flow problem. The method is found to accelerate
these computations while retaining a level of accuracy close to that of the
fine resolution field, which is significantly better than the accuracy obtained
for a similar computation performed solely using a coarse grid. A linear
acceleration rate is obtained for all the cases we consider due to the
linear-cost elliptic Poisson solver used, with reduction factors in
computational time between 2 and 42. The computational savings are larger when
a suboptimal Poisson solver is used. We also find that the computational
savings increase with increasing distortion ratio on non-Cartesian grids,
making the CGP method a useful tool for accelerating generalized curvilinear
incompressible flow solvers.