Mobile Communication marketplace has stressed that "content is king" ever
since the initial footsteps for Next Generation Networks like 3G, 3GPP, IP
Multimedia subsystem (IMS) services. However, many carriers and content
providers have struggled to drive revenue for content services, primarily due
to current limitations of certain types of desirable content offerings,
simplistic billing models, and the inability to support flexible pricing,
charging and settlement. Unlike wire line carriers, wireless carriers have a
limit to the volume of traffic they can carry, bounded by the finite wireless
spectrum. Event based services like calling, conferencing etc., only perceive
charge per event, while the Content based charging system attracts Mobile
Network Operators (MNOs) to maximize service delivery to customer and achieve
best ARPU. With the Next Generation Networks, the number of data related
services that can be offered, is increased significantly. The wireless carrier
will be able to move from offering wireless telecommunications services to
offering wireless telecommunication services plus a number of personalized
Value Added Services like news, games, video broadcasts, or multimedia
messaging service (MMS) through the network. The next generation Content Based
Billing systems allow the operators to maximize their revenues from such
services. These systems will enable operators to offer and bill for
application-based and content-based services, rather than for just bytes of
data. Therefore, the wireless business focus is no longer on infrastructure
build-outs but on customer retention and increased average revenue per customer
(ARPU). The mobile operator generates new revenues, strengthens brand value,
and differentiates its service to attract and retain customers.