Highly turbulent nature of convection on the Sun causes strong multi-scale
interaction of subsurface layers with the photosphere and chromosphere.
According to realistic 3D radiative MHD numerical simulations ubiquitous
small-scale vortex tubes are generated by turbulent flows below the visible
surface and concentrated in the intergranular lanes. The vortex tubes can
capture and amplify magnetic field, penetrate into chromospheric layers and
initiate quasi-periodic flow eruptions that generates Alfv\'enic waves,
transport mass and energy into the solar atmosphere. The simulations revealed
high-speed flow patterns, and complicated thermodynamic and magnetic structures
in the erupting vortex tubes. The spontaneous eruptions are initiated and
driven by strong pressure gradients in the near-surface layers, and accelerated
by the Lorentz force in the low chromosphere. In this paper, the simulation
data are used to further investigate the dynamics of the eruptions, their
spectro-polarimetric characteristics for the Fe I 6301.5 and 6302.5 A spectral
lines, and demonstrate expected signatures of the eruptions in the Hinode SP
data. We found that the complex dynamical structure of vortex tubes (downflows
in the vortex core and upflows on periphery) can be captured by the Stokes I
profiles. During an eruption, the ratio of down and upflows can suddenly
change, and this effect can be observed in the Stokes V profile. Also, during
the eruption the linear polarization signal increases, and this also can be
detected with Hinode SP.