The 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) recently started standardizing
the "Licensed-Assisted Access using LTE" for small cells, referred to as Dual
Band Femtocell (DBF) in this paper, which uses LTE air interface in both
licensed and unlicensed bands based on the Long Term Evolution (LTE) carrier
aggregation feature. Alternatively, the Small Cell Forum introduced the
Integrated Femto-WiFi (IFW) small cell which simultaneously accesses both the
licensed band (via cellular interface) and the unlicensed band (via WiFi
interface). In this paper, a practical algorithm for IFW and DBF to
automatically balance their traffic in licensed and unlicensed bands, based on
the real-time channel, interference and traffic conditions of both bands is
described. The algorithm considers the fact that some "smart" devices
(sDevices) have both cellular and WiFi radios while some WiFi-only devices
(wDevices) may only have WiFi radio. In addition, the algorithm considers a
realistic scenario where a single small cell user may simultaneously use
multiple sDevices and wDevices via either the IFW, or the DBF in conjunction
with a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN). The goal is to maximize the total
user satisfaction/utility of the small cell user, while keeping the
interference from small cell to macrocell below predefined thresholds. The
algorithm can be implemented at the Radio Link Control (RLC) or the network
layer of the IFW and DBF small cell base stations. Results demonstrate that the
proposed traffic-balancing algorithm applied to either IFW or DBF significantly
increases sum utility of all macrocell and small cell users, compared with the
current practices. Finally, various implementation issues of IFW and DBF are
addressed.