Flow vorticity is a fundamental property of turbulent convection in rotating
systems. Solar supergranules exhibit a preferred sense of rotation, which
depends on the hemisphere. This is due to the Coriolis force acting on the
diverging horizontal flows. We aim to spatially resolve the vertical flow
vorticity of the average supergranule at different latitudes, both for outflow
and inflow regions. To measure the vertical vorticity, we use two independent
techniques: time-distance helioseismology (TD) and local correlation tracking
of granules in intensity images (LCT) using data from the Helioseismic and
Magnetic Imager (HMI) onboard the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). Both maps
are corrected for center-to-limb systematic errors. We find that 8-h TD and LCT
maps of vertical vorticity are highly correlated at large spatial scales.
Associated with the average supergranule outflow, we find tangential (vortical)
flows that reach about 10 m/s in the clockwise direction at 40{\deg} latitude.
In average inflow regions, the tangential flow reaches the same magnitude, but
in the anti-clockwise direction. These tangential velocities are much smaller
than the radial (diverging) flow component (300 m/s for the average outflow and
200 m/s for the average inflow). The results for TD and LCT as measured from
HMI are in excellent agreement for latitudes between $-$60{\deg} and 60{\deg}.
From HMI LCT, we measure the vorticity peak of the average supergranule to have
a full width at half maximum of about 13 Mm for outflows and 8 Mm for inflows.
This is larger than the spatial resolution of the LCT measurements (about 3
Mm). On the other hand, the vorticity peak in outflows is about half the value
measured at inflows (e.g. 4/(10^6 s) clockwise compared to 8/(10^6 s)
anti-clockwise at 40{\deg} latitude). Results from MDI/SOHO obtained in 2010
are biased compared to the HMI/SDO results for the same period.