The frequent outbreak of severe foodborne diseases warns of a potential
threat that the global trade networks could spread fatal pathogens. The global
trade network is a typical overlay network, which compounds multiple standalone
trade networks representing the transmission of a single product and connecting
the same set of countries and territories through their own set of trade
interactions. Although the epidemic dynamic implications of overlay networks
have been debated in recent studies, some general answers for the overlay of
multiple and diverse standalone networks remain elusive, especially the
relationship between the heterogeneity and diversity of a set of standalone
networks and the behavior of the overlay network. In this paper, we establish a
general analysis framework for multiple overlay networks based on diversity
theory. The framework could reveal the critical epidemic mechanisms beyond
overlay processes. Applying the framework to global trade networks, we found
that, although the distribution of connectivity of standalone trade networks
was highly heterogeneous, epidemic behavior on overlay networks is more
dependent on cooperation among standalone trade networks rather than on a few
high-connectivity networks as the general property of complex systems with
heterogeneous distribution. Moreover, the analysis of overlay trade networks
related to 7 real pathogens also suggested that epidemic behavior is not
controlled by high-connectivity goods but that the actual compound mode of
overlay trade networks plays a critical role in spreading pathogens. Finally,
we study the influence of cooperation mechanisms on the stability of overlay
networks and on the control of global epidemics. The framework provides a
general tool to study different problems on overlay networks.