In order to investigate the routing aspects of small-world networks,
Kleinberg proposes a network model based on a $d$-dimensional lattice with
long-range links chosen at random according to the $d$-harmonic distribution.
Kleinberg shows that the greedy routing algorithm by using only local
information performs in $O(\log^2 n)$ expected number of hops, where $n$
denotes the number of nodes in the network. Martel and Nguyen have found that
the expected diameter of Kleinberg's small-world networks is $\Theta(\log n)$.
Thus a question arises naturally: Can we improve the routing algorithms to
match the diameter of the networks while keeping the amount of information
stored on each node as small as possible? We extend Kleinberg's model and add
three augmented local links for each node: two of which are connected to nodes
chosen randomly and uniformly within $\log^2 n$ Mahattan distance, and the
third one is connected to a node chosen randomly and uniformly within $\log n$
Mahattan distance. We show that if each node is aware of $O(\log n)$ number of
neighbors via the augmented local links, there exist both non-oblivious and
oblivious algorithms that can route messages between any pair of nodes in
$O(\log n \log \log n)$ expected number of hops, which is a near optimal
routing complexity and outperforms the other related results for routing in
Kleinberg's small-world networks. Our schemes keep only $O(\log^2 n)$ bits of
routing information on each node, thus they are scalable with the network size.
Besides adding new light to the studies of social networks, our results may
also find applications in the design of large-scale distributed networks, such
as peer-to-peer systems, in the same spirit of Symphony.