Multiuser resource allocation has recently been recognized as an effective
methodology for enhancing the power and spectrum efficiency in OFDM (orthogonal
frequency division multiplexing) systems. It is, however, not directly
applicable to current packet-switched networks, because (i) most existing
packet-scheduling schemes are based on a single-server model and do not serve
multiple users at the same time; and (ii) the conventional separate design of
MAC (medium access control) packet scheduling and PHY (physical) resource
allocation yields inefficient resource utilization. In this paper, we propose a
cross-layer resource allocation algorithm based on a novel multi-server
scheduling framework to achieve overall high system power efficiency in
packet-switched OFDM networks. Our contribution is four fold: (i) we propose
and analyze a MPGPS (multi-server packetized general processor sharing) service
discipline that serves multiple users at the same time and facilitates
multiuser resource allocation; (ii) we present a MPGPS-based joint MAC-PHY
resource allocation scheme that incorporates packet scheduling, subcarrier
allocation, and power allocation in an integrated framework; (iii) by
investigating the fundamental tradeoff between multiuser-diversity and queueing
performance, we present an A-MPGPS (adaptive MPGPS) service discipline that
strikes balance between power efficiency and queueing performance; and (iv) we
extend MPGPS to an O-MPGPS (opportunistic MPGPS) service discipline to further
enhance the resource utilization efficiency.