In Refs.[1] and [2], calculation of effective resistances on distance-regular
networks was investigated, where in the first paper, the calculation was based
on the stratification of the network and Stieltjes function associated with the
network, whereas in the latter one a recursive formula for effective
resistances was given based on the Christoffel-Darboux identity. In this paper,
evaluation of effective resistances on more general networks called
pseudo-distance-regular networks [21] or QD type networks \cite{obata} is
investigated, where we use the stratification of these networks and show that
the effective resistances between a given node such as $\alpha$ and all of the
nodes $\beta$ belonging to the same stratum with respect to $\alpha$
($R_{\alpha\beta^{(m)}}$, $\beta$ belonging to the $m$-th stratum with respect
to the $\alpha$) are the same. Then, based on the spectral techniques, an
analytical formula for effective resistances $R_{\alpha\beta^{(m)}}$ such that
$L^{-1}_{\alpha\alpha}=L^{-1}_{\beta\beta}$ (those nodes $\alpha$, $\beta$ of
the network such that the network is symmetric with respect to them) is given
in terms of the first and second orthogonal polynomials associated with the
network, where $L^{-1}$ is the pseudo-inverse of the Laplacian of the network.
  From the fact that in distance-regular networks,
$L^{-1}_{\alpha\alpha}=L^{-1}_{\beta\beta}$ is satisfied for all nodes
$\alpha,\beta$ of the network, the effective resistances
$R_{\alpha\beta^{(m)}}$ for $m=1,2,...,d$ ($d$ is diameter of the network which
is the same as the number of strata) are calculated directly, by using the
given formula.