Recent observations have shown that the direct-impact Algol systems U CrB and
RS Vul possess gas located outside of the orbital plane, including a tilted
accretion disc in U CrB. Observations of circumstellar gas surrounding the mass
donor in RS Vul suggest magnetic effects could be responsible for deflecting
the accretion stream out of the orbital plane, resulting in a tilted disc. To
determine whether a tilted disc is possible due to a deflected stream, we use
three-dimensional hydrodynamic simulations of the mass transfer process in RS
Vul. By deflecting the stream 45 degrees out of the orbital plane and boosting
the magnitude of the stream's velocity to Mach 30, we mimic the effects of
magnetic activity near L1. We find that the modified stream parameters change
the direct-impact nature of the system. The stream misses the surface of the
star, and a slightly warped accretion disc forms with no more than 3 degrees of
disc tilt. The stream-disc interaction for the deflected stream forces a large
degree of material above the orbital plane, increasing the out-of-plane flow
drastically. Plotting the H-alpha emissivity in velocity space allows us to
compare our results with tomographic observations. Deflecting and boosting the
stream increases the emissivity in each z-velocity slice of the out-of-plane
flow by at least three and up to eight orders of magnitude compared to the
undeflected case. We conclude that a deflected stream is a viable mechanism for
producing the strong out-of-plane flows seen in the tomographic images of U CrB
and RS Vul.