We study the flow of a shear-thinning, chemically-reacting fluid that could
be used to model the flow of the synovial fluid. The actual geometry where the
flow of the synovial fluid takes place is very complicated, and therefore the
governing equations are not amenable to simple mathematical analysis. In order
to understand the response of the model, we choose to study the flow in a
simple geometry. While the flow domain is not a geometry relevant to the flow
of the synovial fluid in the human body it yet provides a flow which can be
used to assess the efficacy of different models that have been proposed to
describe synovial fluids. We study the flow in the annular region between two
cylinders, one of which is undergoing unsteady oscillations about their common
axis, in order to understand the quintessential behavioral characteristics of
the synovial fluid. We use the three models suggested by Hron et al. [ J. Hron,
J. M\'{a}lek, P. Pust\v{e}jovsk\'{a}, K. R. Rajagopal, On concentration
dependent shear-thinning behavior in modeling of synovial fluid flow, Adv. in
Tribol. (In Press).] to study the problem, by appealing to a semi-inverse
method. The assumed structure for the velocity field automatically satisfies
the constraint of incompressibility, and the balance of linear momentum is
solved together with a convection-diffusion equation. The results are compared
to those associated with the Newtonian model. We also study the case in which
an external pressure gradient is applied along the axis of the cylindrical
annulus.