In these series of multi-part papers, a systematic study of fundamental
limits of communications in interference networks is established. Here,
interference network is referred to as a general single-hop communication
scenario with arbitrary number of transmitters and receivers, and also
arbitrary distribution of messages among transmitters and receivers. It is
shown that the information flow in such networks follows similar derivations
from many aspects. This systematic study is launched by considering the basic
building blocks in Part I. The Multiple Access Channel (MAC), the Broadcast
Channel (BC), the Classical Interference Channel (CIC) and the Cognitive Radio
Channel (CRC) are proposed as the main building blocks for all interference
networks. First, a brief review of existing results regarding these basic
structures is presented. New observations are also presented in this regard.
Specifically, it is shown that the well-known strong interference conditions
for the two-user CIC do not change if the inputs are dependent. Next, new
capacity outer bounds are established for the basic structures with two
receivers. These outer bounds are all derived based on a unified framework. By
using the derived outer bounds, some new capacity results are proved for the
CIC and the CRC; a mixed interference regime is identified for the two-user
discrete CIC where the sum-rate capacity is established. Also, a noisy
interference regime is derived for the one-sided discrete CIC. For the CRC, a
full characterization of the capacity region for a class of more-capable
channels is obtained. Moreover, it is shown that the derived outer bounds are
useful to study the channels with one-sided receiver side information wherein
one of the receivers has access to the non-intended message; capacity bounds
are also discussed in details for such scenarios.