Future wireless networks are required to support 1000 times higher data rate,
than the current LTE standard. In order to meet the ever increasing demand, it
is inevitable that, future wireless networks will have to develop seamless
interconnection between multiple technologies. A manifestation of this idea is
the collaboration among different types of network tiers such as macro and
small cells, leading to the so-called heterogeneous networks (HetNets).
Researchers have used stochastic geometry to analyze such networks and
understand their real potential. Unsurprisingly, it has been revealed that
interference has a detrimental effect on performance, especially if not modeled
properly. Interference can be correlated in space and/or time, which has been
overlooked in the past. For instance, it is normally assumed that the nodes are
located completely independent of each other and follow a homogeneous Poisson
point process (PPP), which is not necessarily true in real networks since the
node locations are spatially dependent. In addition, the interference
correlation created by correlated stochastic processes has mostly been ignored.
To this end, we take a different approach in modeling the interference where we
use non-PPP, as well as we study the impact of spatial and temporal correlation
on the performance of HetNets. To illustrate the impact of correlation on
performance, we consider three case studies from real-life scenarios.
Specifically, we use massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) to
understand the impact of spatial correlation; we use the random medium access
protocol to examine the temporal correlation; and we use cooperative relay
networks to illustrate the spatial-temporal correlation. We present several
numerical examples through which we demonstrate the impact of various
correlation types on the performance of HetNets.