Among topics of opinion formation it is of interest to observe the
characteristics of networks with a priori distinct communities. As an
illustration, we report on the citation network(s) unfolded in the recent
decades through web available works belonging to selected members of the
Neocreationist and Intelligent Design Proponents (IDP) and the Darwinian
Evolution Defenders (DED) communities. An adjacency matrix of tagged nodes is
first constructed; it is not symmetric. A generalization of considerations
pertaining to the case of networks with biased links, directed or undirected,
is thus presented. The main characteristic coefficients describing the
structure of such partially directed networks with tagged nodes are outlined.
The structural features are discussed searching for statistical aspects,
equivalence or not of subnetworks through the degree distributions, each
network assortativity, the global and local clustering coefficients and the
Average Overlap Indices. The various closed and open triangles made from nodes,
moreover distinguishing the community, are especially listed to calculate the
clustering characteristics. The distribution of elements in the rectangular
submatrices are specially examined since they represent inter-community
connexions. The emphasis being on distinguishing the number of vertices
belonging to a given community. Using such informations one can distinguish
between opinion leaders, followers and main rivals and briefly interpret their
relationships through psychological-like conditions intrinsic to behavior rules
in either community. Considerations on other controversy cases with similar
social constraints are outlined, as well as suggestions on further, more
general, work deduced from our observations on such networks.