Traditionally, wireless network protocols have been designed for performance.
Subsequently, as attacks have been identified, patches have been developed.
This has resulted in an "arms race" development process of discovering
vulnerabilities and then patching them. The fundamental difficulty with this
approach is that other vulnerabilities may still exist. No provable security or
performance guarantees can ever be provided.
  We develop a system-theoretic approach to security that provides a complete
protocol suite with provable guarantees, as well as proof of min-max optimality
with respect to any given utility function of source-destination rates. Our
approach is based on a model capturing the essential features of an adhoc
wireless network that has been infiltrated with hostile nodes. We consider any
collection of nodes, some good and some bad, possessing specified capabilities
vis-a-vis cryptography, wireless communication and clocks. The good nodes do
not know the bad nodes. The bad nodes can collaborate perfectly, and are
capable of any disruptive acts ranging from simply jamming to non-cooperation
with the protocols in any manner they please.
  The protocol suite caters to the complete life-cycle, all the way from birth
of nodes, through all phases of ad hoc network formation, leading to an
optimized network carrying data reliably. It provably achieves the min-max of
the utility function, where the max is over all protocol suites published and
followed by the good nodes, while the min is over all Byzantine behaviors of
the bad nodes. Under the protocol suite, the bad nodes do not benefit from any
actions other than jamming or cooperating.
  This approach supersedes much previous work that deals with several types of
attacks.