Biological networks have two modes. The first mode is static: a network is a
passage on which something flows. The second mode is dynamic: a network is a
pattern constructed by gluing functions of entities constituting the network.
In this paper, first we discuss that these two modes can be associated with the
category theoretic duality (adjunction) and derive a natural network structure
(a path notion) for each mode by appealing to the category theoretic
universality. The path notion corresponding to the static mode is just the
usual directed path. The path notion for the dynamic mode is called lateral
path which is the alternating path considered on the set of arcs. Their general
functionalities in a network are transport and coherence, respectively. Second,
we introduce a betweenness centrality of arcs for each mode and see how the two
modes are embedded in various real biological network data. We find that there
is a trade-off relationship between the two centralities: if the value of one
is large then the value of the other is small. This can be seen as a kind of
division of labor in a network into transport on the network and coherence of
the network. Finally, we propose an optimization model of networks based on a
quality function involving intensities of the two modes in order to see how
networks with the above trade-off relationship can emerge through evolution. We
show that the trade-off relationship can be observed in the evolved networks
only when the dynamic mode is dominant in the quality function by numerical
simulations. We also show that the evolved networks have features qualitatively
similar to real biological networks by standard complex network analysis.