In network evolution, the effect of aging is universal: in scientific
collaboration network, scientists have a finite time span of being active; in
movie actors network, once popular stars are retiring from stage; devices on
the Internet may become outmoded with techniques developing so rapidly. Here we
find in citation networks that this effect can be represented by an exponential
decay factor, $e^{-\beta \tau}$, where $\tau $ is the node age, while other
evolving networks (the Internet for instance) may have different types of
aging, for example, a power-law decay factor, which is also studied and
compared. It has been found that as soon as such a factor is introduced to the
Barabasi-Albert Scale-Free model, the network will be significantly
transformed. The network will be clustered even with infinitely large size, and
the clustering coefficient varies greatly with the intensity of the aging
effect, i.e. it increases linearly with $\beta $ for small values of $\beta $
and decays exponentially for large values of $\beta $. At the same time, the
aging effect may also result in a hierarchical structure and a disassortative
degree-degree correlation. Generally the aging effect will increase the average
distance between nodes, but the result depends on the type of the decay factor.
The network appears like a one-dimensional chain when exponential decay is
chosen, but with power-law decay, a transformation process is observed, i.e.,
from a small-world network to a hypercubic lattice, and to a one-dimensional
chain finally. The disparities observed for different choices of the decay
factor, in clustering, average node distance and probably other aspects not yet
identified, are believed to bear significant meaning on empirical data
acquisition.