Cellular phenotypes are determined by the dynamical activity of networks of
co-regulated genes. Elucidating such networks is crucial for the understanding
of normal cell physiology as well as for the dissection of complex pathologic
phenotypes. Existing methods for such "reverse engineering" of genetic networks
from microarray expression data have been successful only in prokaryotes (E.
coli) and lower eukaryotes (S. cerevisiae) with relatively simple genomes.
Additionally, they have mostly attempted to reconstruct average properties
about the network connectivity without capturing the highly conditional nature
of the interactions. In this paper we extend the ARACNE algorithm, which we
recently introduced and successfully applied to the reconstruction of
whole-genome transcriptional networks from mammalian cells, precisely to link
the existence of specific network structures to the expression or lack thereof
of specific regulator genes. This is accomplished by analyzing thousands of
alternative network topologies generated by constraining the data set on the
presence or absence of putative regulator genes. By considering interactions
that are consistently supported across several such constraints, we identify
many transcriptional interactions that would not have been detectable by the
original method. By selecting genes that produce statistically significant
changes in network topology, we identify novel candidate regulator genes.
Further analysis shows that transcription factors, kinases, phosphatases, and
other gene families known to effect biochemical interactions, are significantly
overrepresented among the set of candidate regulator genes identified in
silico, indirectly supporting the validity of the approach.