Separated flows past complex geometries are modelled by discrete vortex
techniques. The flows are assumed to be rotational and inviscid, and a new
technique is described to determine the streamfunctions for linear shear
profiles. The geometries considered are the snow cornice and the
backward-facing step, whose edges allow for the separation of the flow and
reattachment downstream of the recirculation regions. A point vortex has been
added to the flows in order to constrain the separation points to be located at
the edges, while the conformal mappings have been modified in order to smooth
the sharp edges and let the separation points be free to oscillate around the
points of maximum curvature. Unsteadiness is imposed on the flow by perturbing
the vortex location, either by displacing the vortex from equilibrium, or by
imposing a random perturbation with zero mean on the vortex in equilibrium. The
trajectories of passive scalars continuously released upwind of the separation
point and trapped by the recirculating bubble are numerically integrated, and
concentration time series are calculated at fixed locations downwind of the
reattachment points. This model proves to be capable of reproducing the
trapping and intermittent release of scalars, in agreement with the simulation
of the flow past a snow cornice performed by a discrete multi-vortex model, as
well as with direct numerical simulations of the flow past a backward-facing
step. The simulation results indicate that for flows undergoing separation and
reattachment the unsteadiness of the recirculating bubble is the main mechanism
responsible for the intense large-scale concentration fluctuations downstream.