The venerable theory of electrokinetic phenomena rests on the hypothesis of a
dilute solution of point-like ions near a weakly charged surface, whose
potential relative to the bulk is of order the thermal voltage ($kT/e \approx
25$ mV at room temperature). In nonlinear electrokinetic phenomena, such as AC
or induced-charge electro-osmosis (ACEO, ICEO) and induced-charge
electrophoresis (ICEP), several Volts $\approx 100 kT/e$ are applied to
polarizable surfaces in microscopic geometries, and the resulting electric
fields and induced surface charges are large enough to violate the assumptions
of the classical theory. In this article, we review the literature, highlight
discrepancies between theory and experiment, introduce possible modifications
of the theory, and analyze their consequences. We argue that, in response to a
large applied voltage, the "compact layer" and "shear plane" effectively
advance into the liquid, due to the crowding of counter-ions. Using simple
continuum models, we predict two general trends, each enhanced by dielectric
response: (i) ionic crowding against a blocking surface expands the diffuse
double layer and thus decreases its differential capacitance, and (ii) a
charge-induced viscosity increase near the surface reduces the electro-osmotic
mobility. The first effect is able to predict high-frequency flow reversal in
ACEO pumps, while the second may explain the decay of ICEO flow with increasing
salt concentration. Through examples, such as ICEP of an uncharged metal sphere
in an asymmetric electrolyte, we show that ICEO flows are ion-specific. Similar
issues arise in nanofluidics (due to confinement) and ionic liquids (due to the
lack of solvent), so the paper concludes with a general framework of modified
electrokinetic equations for finite-sized ions.