The appearance of traffic jams on chains with a shunted section between two
simple chain segments in the maximum current phase is studied in the framework
of the Totally Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process. The conditions for the
occurrence of this phenomenon are investigated both within the effective rates
approximation and numerically for arbitrary length of the shortcut. The problem
is interesting on its own because the conditions for coexistence of low- and
high density phases are essentially different from those for a simple chain
between two reservoirs. Our main results are: (1) For any values of the
external rates in the domain of the maximum current phase, there exists a
position of the shortcut where the shunted segment is in a phase of coexistence
with a completely delocalized domain wall; (2) The main features of the
coexistence phase and the density profiles in the whole network are well
described by the domain wall theory. Apart from the negligible inter-chain
correlations, they depend only on the current through the shortcut; (3) The
model displays an unexpected feature: the current through the longer shunted
segment is larger than the current through the shortcut; (4) From the viewpoint
of vehicular traffic, most comfortable conditions for the drivers are provided
when the shortcut is shifted downstream from the position of coexistence, when
both the shunted segment and the shortcut exhibit low-density lamellar flow.
Most unfavorable is the opposite case of upstream shifted shortcut, when both
the shunted segment and the shortcut are in a high-density phase describing
congested traffic of slowly moving cars. The above results are relevant also to
phenomena like crowding of molecular motors moving along twisted
protofilaments.