We use numerical simulations to address locomotion at zero Reynolds number in
viscoelastic (Giesekus) fluids. The swimmers are assumed to be spherical, to
self-propel using tangential surface deformation, and the computations are
implemented using a finite element method. The emphasis of the study is on the
change of the swimming kinematics, energetics, and flow disturbance from
Newtonian to viscoelastic, and on the distinction between pusher and puller
swimmers. In all cases, the viscoelastic swimming speed is below the Newtonian
one, with a minimum obtained for intermediate values of the Weissenberg number,
$We$. An analysis of the flow field places the origin of this swimming
degradation in non-Newtonian elongational stresses. The power required for
swimming is also systematically below the Newtonian power, and always a
decreasing function of $We$. A detail energetic balance of the swimming problem
points at the polymeric part of the stress as the primary $We$-decreasing
energetic contribution, while the contributions of the work done by the swimmer
from the solvent remain essentially $We$-independent. In addition, we observe
negative values of the polymeric power density in some flow regions, indicating
positive elastic work by the polymers on the fluid. The hydrodynamic
efficiency, defined as the ratio of the useful to total rate of work, is always
above the Newtonian case, with a maximum relative value obtained at
intermediate Weissenberg numbers. Finally, the presence of polymeric stresses
leads to an increase of the rate of decay of the flow velocity in the fluid,
and a decrease of the magnitude of the stresslet governing the magnitude of the
effective bulk stress in the fluid.