With exquisite precision and reproducibility, cells orchestrate the
cooperative action of thousands of nanometer-sized molecular motors to carry
out mechanical tasks at much larger length scales, such as cell motility,
division and replication. Besides their biological importance, such inherently
non-equilibrium processes are an inspiration for developing biomimetic active
materials from microscopic components that consume energy to generate
continuous motion. Being actively driven, these materials are not constrained
by the laws of equilibrium statistical mechanics and can thus exhibit highly
sought-after properties such as autonomous motility, internally generated flows
and self-organized beating. Starting from extensile microtubule bundles, we
hierarchically assemble active analogs of conventional polymer gels, liquid
crystals and emulsions. At high enough concentration, microtubules form a
percolating active network characterized by internally driven chaotic flows,
hydrodynamic instabilities, enhanced transport and fluid mixing. When confined
to emulsion droplets, 3D networks spontaneously adsorb onto the droplet
surfaces to produce highly active 2D nematic liquid crystals whose streaming
flows are controlled by internally generated fractures and self-healing, as
well as unbinding and annihilation of oppositely charged disclination defects.
The resulting active emulsions exhibit unexpected properties, such as
autonomous motility, which are not observed in their passive analogues. Taken
together, these observations exemplify how assemblages of animate microscopic
objects exhibit collective biomimetic properties that are starkly different
from those found in materials assembled from inanimate building blocks,
challenging us to develop a theoretical framework that would allow for a
systematic engineering of their far-from-equilibrium material properties.