We study the flow of fluid in porous media in dimensions $d=2$ and 3. The
medium is modeled by bond percolation on a lattice of $L^d$ sites, while the
flow front is modeled by tracer particles driven by a pressure difference
between two fixed sites (``wells'') separated by Euclidean distance $r$. We
investigate the distribution function of the shortest path connecting the two
sites, and propose a scaling {\it Ansatz} that accounts for the dependence of
this distribution (i) on the size of the system, $L$, and (ii) on the bond
occupancy probability, $p$. We confirm by extensive simulations that the {\it
Ansatz} holds for $d=2$ and 3, and calculate the relevant scaling parameters.
We also study two dynamical quantities: the minimal traveling time of a tracer
particle between the wells and the length of the path corresponding to the
minimal traveling time ``fastest path'', which is not identical to the shortest
path. A scaling {\it Ansatz} for these dynamical quantities also includes the
effect of finite system size $L$ and off-critical bond occupation probability
$p$. We find that the scaling form for the distribution functions for these
dynamical quantities for $d=2$ and 3 is similar to that for the shortest path
but with different critical exponents. The scaling form is represented as the
product of a power law and three exponential cutoff functions. We summarize our
results in a table which contains estimates for all parameters which
characterize the scaling form for the shortest path and the minimal traveling
time in 2 and 3 dimensions; these parameters are the fractal dimension, the
power law exponent, and the constants and exponents that characterize the
exponential cutoff functions.