One popular assumption regarding biological systems is that traits have
evolved to be optimized with respect to function. This is a standard goal in
evolutionary computation, and while not always embraced in the biological
sciences, is an underlying assumption of what happens when fitness is
maximized. The implication of this is that a signaling pathway or phylogeny
should show evidence of minimizing the number of steps required to produce a
biochemical product or phenotypic adaptation. In this paper, it will be shown
that a principle of "maximum intermediate steps" may also characterize complex
biological systems, especially those in which extreme historical contingency or
a combination of mutation and recombination are key features. The contribution
to existing literature is two-fold: demonstrating both the potential for
non-optimality in engineered systems with "lifelike" attributes, and the
underpinnings of non-optimality in naturalistic contexts.
  This will be demonstrated by using the Rube Goldberg Machine (RGM) analogy.
Mechanical RGMs will be introduced, and their relationship to conceptual
biological RGMs. Exemplars of these biological RGMs and their evolution (e.g.
introduction of mutations and recombination-like inversions) will be
demonstrated using block diagrams and interconnections with complex networks
(called convolution architectures). The conceptual biological RGM will then be
mapped to an artificial vascular system, which can be modeled using
microfluidic-like structures. Theoretical expectations will be presented,
particularly regarding whether or not maximum intermediate steps equates to the
rescue or reuse of traits compromised by previous mutations or inversions.
Considerations for future work and applications will then be discussed,
including the incorporation of such convolution architectures into complex
networks.