For a set of operating conditions and coating color formulations, undesirable
phenomena like color spitting and coating ribs may be triggered in the
Micro-nip during the coating process. Therefore, our interest in this work
focus on another parameter affect on the undesirable phenomena as the vortices
in the Micro-nip. The problem deals with the flow through the Micro-nip of
metering size press. The flow enters and exits at a tangential velocity of 20
m/s between two rollers with diameter 80 cm and 60 -m apart. In the upper and
bottom part of the domain the angular velocity is 314 rad /s. It has one
sub-domain. Previous studies focus on the Micro-nip without considering the
inertia and the viscoelasticity of the material. Roll coating is a technique
commonly used in the coating industry to meter a thin fluid film on a moving
substrate. During the film formation, the fluid is subjected to very high shear
and extensional rates over a very short period of time. The fluid domain
changes as a function of the hydrodynamic pressure within the nip as a result
of the deformable cover usually used on one of the rolls. The free surface also
adds more complexity to the flow due to the force equilibrium in the fluid gas
interface. Last of all, the rheological behavior of the coating fluid is
usually non-Newtonian, so the metering flow hydrodynamics is finally very
difficult to describe. It is concluded that the normal forces of micro-nip
increases with increasing the inhibitors. Therefore, it affects on the
smoothness and creates defects. On the other hand, it can be concluded that the
creation of big vortex in the middle of micro-nip affects on the coating liquid
behavior.