A variety of natural phenomena comprises a huge number of competing reactions
and short-lived intermediates. Any study of such processes requires the
discovery and accurate modeling of their underlying reaction network. However,
this task is challenging due to the complexity in exploring all the possible
pathways and the high computational cost in accurately modeling a large number
of reactions. Fortunately, very often these processes are dominated by only a
limited subset of the network's reaction pathways. In this work we propose a
novel computationally inexpensive method to identify and select the key
pathways of complex reaction networks, so that high-level ab-initio
calculations can be more efficiently targeted at these critical reactions. The
method estimates the relative importance of the reaction pathways for given
reactants by analyzing the accelerated evolution of hundreds of replicas of the
system and detecting products formation. This acceleration-detection method is
able to tremendously speed up the reactivity of uni- and bimolecular reactions,
without requiring any previous knowledge of products or transition states.
Importantly, the method is efficiently iterative, as it can be
straightforwardly applied for the most frequently observed products, therefore
providing an efficient algorithm to identify the key reactions of extended
chemical networks. We verified the validity of our approach on three different
systems, including the reactivity of t-decalin with a methyl radical, and in
all cases the expected behavior was recovered within statistical error.