We review the dynamical behavior of giant fluid vesicles in various types of
external hydrodynamic flow. The interplay between stresses arising from
membrane elasticity, hydrodynamic flows, and the ever present thermal
fluctuations leads to a rich phenomenology. In linear flows with both
rotational and elongational components, the properties of the tank-treading and
tumbling motions are now well described by theoretical and numerical models. At
the transition between these two regimes, strong shape deformations and
amplification of thermal fluctuations generate a new regime called trembling.
In this regime, the vesicle orientation oscillates quasi-periodically around
the flow direction while asymmetric deformations occur. For strong enough
flows, small-wavelength deformations like wrinkles are observed, similar to
what happens in a suddenly reversed elongational flow. In steady elongational
flow, vesicles with large excess areas deform into dumbbells at large flow
rates and pearling occurs for even stronger flows. In capillary flows with
parabolic flow profile, single vesicles migrate towards the center of the
channel, where they adopt symmetric shapes, for two reasons. First, walls exert
a hydrodynamic lift force which pushes them away. Second, shear stresses are
minimal at the tip of the flow. However, symmetry is broken for vesicles with
large excess areas, which flow off-center and deform asymmetrically. In
suspensions, hydrodynamic interactions between vesicles add up to these two
effects, making it challenging to deduce rheological properties from the
dynamics of individual vesicles. Further investigations of vesicles and similar
objects and their suspensions in steady or time-dependent flow will shed light
on phenomena such as blood flow.