Using data recorded by the Michelson Doppler Imager (MDI) instrument on the
Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO), we have traced 123 pairs of opposite
magnetic polarity moving magnetic features (MMFs) in three active regions NOAA
ARs 8375, 0330 and 9575. At the time of observation, AR 8375 was young, AR 0330
mature, and AR 9575 decaying. The vertical velocity indicates that the elements
of MMF pairs with polarity opposite to that of the sunspot support a downflow
of around 50-100 m s$^{-1}$. The average Doppler shift difference between
negative and positive elements of an MMF pair is about 150 m s$^{-1}$ in AR
8375, 100 m s$^{-1}$ in AR 0330, and 20 m s$^{-1}$ in AR 9575. These
observational results are in agreement with the model that MMF pairs are part
of a U-loop emanating from the sunspot's magnetic canopy. According to this
model the downflow is caused by the Evershed flow returning below the solar
surface. For AR 8375, the horizontal velocity of MMFs ranges from 0.1 km
s$^{-1}$ to 0.7 km s$^{-1}$, and on average, the velocity of an MMF pair
decreases significantly (from 0.6 km s$^{-1}$ to 0.35 km s$^{-1}$) with
increasing distance from the MMF's birth place. This result suggests that the
change in MMF flow speed does not reflect the radial structure of the moat
flow, but rather is intrinsic to the evolution of the MMF pairs. This result is
also in agreement with the U-loop model of MMF pairs. We also find that
properties of MMF pairs, most strikingly the lifetime, depend on the evolution
stages of the parent sunspot. The mean lifetimes of MMF pairs in ARs 9575 and
0330 are 0.7 hours and 1.6 hours, respectively, which is considerably shorter
than the 4 hours lifetime previously found for AR 8375.