We consider a network creation game in which each player (vertex) has a fixed
budget to establish links to other players. In our model, each link has unit
price and each agent tries to minimize its cost, which is either its local
diameter or its total distance to other players in the (undirected) underlying
graph of the created network. Two versions of the game are studied: in the MAX
version, the cost incurred to a vertex is the maximum distance between the
vertex and other vertices, and in the SUM version, the cost incurred to a
vertex is the sum of distances between the vertex and other vertices. We prove
that in both versions pure Nash equilibria exist, but the problem of finding
the best response of a vertex is NP-hard. We take the social cost of the
created network to be its diameter, and next we study the maximum possible
diameter of an equilibrium graph with n vertices in various cases. When the sum
of players' budgets is n-1, the equilibrium graphs are always trees, and we
prove that their maximum diameter is Theta(n) and Theta(log n) in MAX and SUM
versions, respectively. When each vertex has unit budget (i.e. can establish
link to just one vertex), the diameter of any equilibrium graph in either
version is Theta(1). We give examples of equilibrium graphs in the MAX version,
such that all vertices have positive budgets and yet the diameter is
Omega(sqrt(log n)). This interesting (and perhaps counter-intuitive) result
shows that increasing the budgets may increase the diameter of equilibrium
graphs and hence deteriorate the network structure. Then we prove that every
equilibrium graph in the SUM version has diameter 2^O(sqrt(log n)). Finally, we
show that if the budget of each player is at least k, then every equilibrium
graph in the SUM version is k-connected or has diameter smaller than 4.