We consider synchronization of coupled dynamical systems when different types
of interactions are simultaneously present. We assume that a set of dynamical
systems are coupled through the connections of two or more distinct networks
(each of which corresponds to a distinct type of interaction), and we refer to
such a system as a hypernetwork. Applications include neural networks formed of
both electrical gap junctions and chemical synapses, the coordinated motion of
shoals of fishes communicating through both vision and flow sensing, and
hypernetworks of coupled chaotic oscillators. We first analyze the case of a
hypernetwork formed of $m=2$ networks. We look for necessary and sufficient
conditions for synchronization. We attempt at reducing the linear stability
problem in a master stability function form, i.e., at decoupling the effects of
the coupling functions from the structure of the networks. Unfortunately, we
are unable to obtain a reduction in a master stability function form for the
general case. However, we show that such a reduction is possible in three cases
of interest: (i) the Laplacian matrices associated with the two networks
commute; (ii) one of the two networks is unweighted and fully connected; (iii)
one of the two networks is such that the coupling strength from node $i$ to
node $j$ is a function of $j$ but not of $i$. Furthermore, we define a class of
networks such that if either one of the two coupling networks belongs to this
class, the reduction can be obtained independently of the other network. As an
example of interest, we study synchronization of a neural hypernetwork for
which the connections can be either chemical synapses or electrical gap
junctions. We propose a generalization of our stability results to the case of
hypernetworks formed of $m\geq 2$ networks.