The capacity or approximations to capacity of various single-source
single-destination relay network models has been characterized in terms of the
cut-set upper bound. In principle, a direct computation of this bound requires
evaluating the cut capacity over exponentially many cuts. We show that the
minimum cut capacity of a relay network under some special assumptions can be
cast as a minimization of a submodular function, and as a result, can be
computed efficiently. We use this result to show that the capacity, or an
approximation to the capacity within a constant gap for the Gaussian, wireless
erasure, and Avestimehr-Diggavi-Tse deterministic relay network models can be
computed in polynomial time. We present some empirical results showing that
computing constant-gap approximations to the capacity of Gaussian relay
networks with around 300 nodes can be done in order of minutes.
  For Gaussian networks, cut-set capacities are also functions of the powers
assigned to the nodes. We consider a family of power optimization problems and
show that they can be solved in polynomial time. In particular, we show that
the minimization of the sum of powers assigned to the nodes subject to a
minimum rate constraint (measured in terms of cut-set bounds) can be computed
in polynomial time. We propose an heuristic algorithm to solve this problem and
measure its performance through simulations on random Gaussian networks. We
observe that in the optimal allocations most of the power is assigned to a
small subset of relays, which suggests that network simplification may be
possible without excessive performance degradation.