The endemic pine, Pinus canariensis, forms one of the main forest ecosystems
in the Canary Islands. In this archipelago, pine forest is a mosaic of natural
stands (remnants of past forest overexploitation) and artificial stands planted
from the 1940's. The genetic makeup of the artificially regenerated forest is
of some concern. The use of reproductive material with uncontrolled origin or
from a reduced number of parental trees may produce stands ill adapted to local
conditions or unable to adapt in response to environmental change. The genetic
diversity within a transect of reforested stands connecting two natural forest
fragments has been studied with nuclear and chloroplast microsatellites. Little
genetic differentiation and similar levels of genetic diversity to the
surrounding natural stands were found for nuclear markers. However, chloroplast
microsatellites presented lower haplotype diversity in reforested stands, and
this may be a consequence of the lower effective population size of the
chloroplast genome, meaning chloroplast markers have a higher sensitivity to
bottlenecks. Understory natural regeneration within the reforestation was also
analysed to study gene flow from natural forest into artificial stands.
Estimates of immigration rate into artificially regenerated forest were high
(0.68-0.75), producing a significant increase of genetic diversity (both in
chloroplast and nuclear microsatellites), which indicates the capacity for
genetic recovery for P. canariensis reforestations surrounded by larger natural
stands.