This text is an expanded version of the lecture notes of a minicourse (with
the same title of this text) delivered by the contributors in the Bedlewo school
"Modern Dynamics and its Interaction with Analysis, Geometry and Number Theory"
(from 4 to 16 July, 2011).
  In the first part of this text, i.e., from Sections 1 to 5, we discuss the
Teichm\"uller and moduli space of translation surfaces, the Teichm\"uller flow
and the SL(2,R)-action on these moduli spaces and the Kontsevich-Zorich cocycle
over the Teichm\"uller geodesic flow. We sketch two applications of the ergodic
properties of the Teichm\"uller flow and Kontsevich-Zorich cocycle, with
respect to Masur-Veech measures, to the unique ergodicity, deviation of ergodic
averages and weak mixing properties of typical interval exchange
transformations and translation flows. These applications are based on the
fundamental fact that the Teichm\"uller flow and the Kontsevich-Zorich cocycle
work as \emph{renormalization dynamics} for interval exchange transformations
and translation flows.
  In the second part, i.e., from Sections 6 to 9, we start by pointing out that
it is interesting to study the ergodic properties of the Kontsevich-Zorich
cocycle with respect to invariant measures other than the Masur-Veech ones, in
view of potential applications to the investigation of billiards in rational
polygons (for instance). We then study some examples of measures for which the
ergodic properties of the Kontsevich-Zorich cocycle are very different from the
case of Masur-Veech measures. Finally, we end these notes by constructing some
examples of closed SL(2,R)-orbits such that the restriction of the
Teichm\"uller flow to them has arbitrary small rate of exponential mixing, or,
equivalently, the naturally associated unitary SL(2,R)-representations have
arbitrarily small spectral gap (and in particular it has complementary series).