Transverse oscillations of thin threads in solar prominences are frequently
reported in high-resolution observations. Two typical features of the
observations are that the oscillations are damped in time and that simultaneous
mass flows along the threads are detected. Flows cause the dense threads to
move along the prominence magnetic structure while the threads are oscillating.
The oscillations have been interpreted in terms of standing magnetohydrodynamic
(MHD) kink waves of the magnetic flux tubes which support the threads. The
damping is most likely due to resonant absorption caused by plasma
inhomogeneity. The technique of seismology uses the observations combined with
MHD wave theory to estimate prominence physical parameters. This paper presents
a theoretical study of the joint effect of flow and resonant absorption on the
amplitude of standing kink waves in prominence threads. We find that flow and
resonant absorption can either be competing effects on the amplitude or both
can contribute to damp the oscillations depending on the instantaneous position
of the thread within the prominence magnetic structure. The amplitude profile
deviates from the classic exponential profile of resonantly damped kink waves
in static flux tubes. Flow also introduces a progressive shift of the
oscillation period compared to the static case, although this effect is in
general of minor importance. We test the robustness of seismological estimates
by using synthetic data aiming to mimic real observations. The effect of the
thread flow can significantly affect the estimation of the transverse
inhomogeneity length scale. The presence of random background noise adds
uncertainty to this estimation. Caution needs to be paid to the seismological
estimates that do not take the influence of flow into account.