Creating a loyal customer base is one of the most important, and at the same
time, most difficult tasks a company faces. Creating loyalty online (e-loyalty)
is especially difficult since customers can ``switch'' to a competitor with the
click of a mouse. In this paper we investigate e-loyalty in online auctions.
Using a unique data set of over 30,000 auctions from one of the main
consumer-to-consumer online auction houses, we propose a novel measure of
e-loyalty via the associated network of transactions between bidders and
sellers. Using a bipartite network of bidder and seller nodes, two nodes are
linked when a bidder purchases from a seller and the number of repeat-purchases
determines the strength of that link. We employ ideas from functional principal
component analysis to derive, from this network, the loyalty distribution which
measures the perceived loyalty of every individual seller, and associated
loyalty scores which summarize this distribution in a parsimonious way. We then
investigate the effect of loyalty on the outcome of an auction. In doing so, we
are confronted with several statistical challenges in that standard statistical
models lead to a misrepresentation of the data and a violation of the model
assumptions. The reason is that loyalty networks result in an extreme
clustering of the data, with few high-volume sellers accounting for most of the
individual transactions. We investigate several remedies to the clustering
problem and conclude that loyalty networks consist of very distinct segments
that can best be understood individually.