Biological networks have evolved to be highly functional within uncertain
environments while remaining extremely adaptable. One of the main contributors
to the robustness and evolvability of biological networks is believed to be
their modularity of function, with modules defined as sets of genes that are
strongly interconnected but whose function is separable from those of other
modules. Here, we investigate the in silico evolution of modularity and
robustness in complex artificial metabolic networks that encode an increasing
amount of information about their environment while acquiring ubiquitous
features of biological, social, and engineering networks, such as scale-free
edge distribution, small-world property, and fault-tolerance. These networks
evolve in environments that differ in their predictability, and allow us to
study modularity from topological, information-theoretic, and gene-epistatic
points of view using new tools that do not depend on any preconceived notion of
modularity. We find that for our evolved complex networks as well as for the
yeast protein-protein interaction network, synthetic lethal pairs consist
mostly of redundant genes that lie close to each other and therefore within
modules, while knockdown suppressor pairs are farther apart and often straddle
modules, suggesting that knockdown rescue is mediated by alternative pathways
or modules. The combination of network modularity tools together with genetic
interaction data constitutes a powerful approach to study and dissect the role
of modularity in the evolution and function of biological networks.