An experimental study is combined with numerical modelling to investigate new
ways to reduce cross-flow vibrations of hydraulic gates with underflow. A
rectangular gate section placed in a flume was given freedom to vibrate in the
vertical direction. Holes in the gate bottom enabled leakage flow through the
gate to enter the area directly under the gate which is known to play a key
role in most excitation mechanisms. For submerged discharge conditions with
small gate openings the vertical dynamic support force was measured in the
reduced velocity range 1.5 < Vr < 10.5 for a gate with and without holes. The
leakage flow through the holes significantly reduced vibrations. This
attenuation was most profound in the high stiffness region at 2 < Vr < 3.5.
Two-dimensional numerical simulations were performed with the Finite Element
Method to assess local velocities and pressures for both gate types. A moving
mesh covering both solid and fluid domain allowed free gate movement and
two-way fluid-structure interactions. Modelling assumptions and observed
numerical effects are discussed and quantified. The simulated added mass in
still water is shown to be close to experimental values. The spring stiffness
and mass factor were varied to achieve similar response frequencies at the same
dry natural frequencies as in the experiment. Although it was not possible to
reproduce the vibrations dominated by impinging leading edge vortices (ILEV) at
relatively low Vr, the simulations at high Vr showed strong vibrations with
movement-induced excitation (MIE). For the latter case, the simulated response
reduction of the ventilated gate agrees with the experimental results. The
numerical modelling results suggest that the leakage flow diminishes the
whipping effect of fluctuations at the trailing edge associated with the
streamwise pressure drop across the gate and the body's vertical oscillatory
motion.