The nonlinearities found in molecular networks usually prevent mathematical
analysis of network behaviour, which has largely been studied by numerical
simulation. This can lead to difficult problems of parameter determination.
However, molecular networks give rise, through mass-action kinetics, to
polynomial dynamical systems, whose steady states are zeros of a set of
polynomial equations. These equations may be analysed by algebraic methods, in
which parameters are treated as symbolic expressions whose numerical values do
not have to be known in advance. For instance, an "invariant" of a network is a
polynomial expression on selected state variables that vanishes in any steady
state. Invariants have been found that encode key network properties and that
discriminate between different network structures. Although invariants may be
calculated by computational algebraic methods, such as Gr\"obner bases, these
become computationally infeasible for biologically realistic networks. Here, we
exploit Chemical Reaction Network Theory (CRNT) to develop an efficient
procedure for calculating invariants that are linear combinations of
"complexes", or the monomials coming from mass action. We show how this
procedure can be used in proving earlier results of Horn and Jackson and of
Shinar and Feinberg for networks of deficiency at most one. We then apply our
method to enzyme bifunctionality, including the bacterial EnvZ/OmpR osmolarity
regulator and the mammalian
6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase glycolytic regulator,
whose networks have deficiencies up to four. We show that bifunctionality leads
to different forms of concentration control that are robust to changes in
initial conditions or total amounts. Finally, we outline a systematic procedure
for using complex-linear invariants to analyse molecular networks of any
deficiency.