We calculate the advection/diffusion of the large-scale magnetic field
threading an ADAF, and find that the magnetic field can be dragged inward by
the accretion flow efficiently, if the magnetic Prandtl number P~1. This is due
to the large radial velocity of the ADAF. It is found that the magnetic
pressure can be as high as ~50% of the gas pressure in the inner region of the
ADAF close to the black hole horizon, even if the external imposed vertical
field strength is <5% of the gas pressure at the outer radius of the ADAF,
which is caused by the gas plunging rapidly to the black hole within the
marginal stable circular orbit. In the inner region of the ADAF, the flow is
significantly pressured in the vertical direction by the magnetic field, and
therefore its gas pressure can be two orders of magnitude higher than that in
the ADAF without magnetic fields. This means that the magnetic field strength
near the black hole is underestimated by assuming equipartition between
magnetic and gas pressure with the conventional ADAF model. Our results show
that the magnetic field strength of the flow near the black hole horizon can be
more than one order of magnitude higher than that in the ADAF at 6GM/c^2, which
implies the Blandford-Znajek mechanism could be more important than the
Blandford-Payne mechanism for ADAFs. We find that the accretion flow is
decelerated near the black hole by the magnetic field when the external imposed
field is strong enough or the gas pressure of the flow is low at the outer
radius, or both. This corresponds to a critical accretion rate, below which the
accretion flow will be arrested by the magnetic field near the black hole for a
given external imposed field. In this case, the gas may accrete as magnetically
confined blobs diffusing through field lines in the region very close to the
black hole horizon, which is similar to those in compact stars.