This paper describes the construction and performance of a VUV-simulator that
has been designed to study degradation of materials under space conditions. It
is part of the Complex Irradiation Facility at DLR in Bremen, Germany, that has
been built for testing of material under irradiation in the complete UV-range
as well as under proton and electron irradiation. Presently available
UV-sources used for material tests do not allow the irradiation with
wavelengths smaller than about $115$ nm where common Deuterium lamps show an
intensity cut-off. The VUV-simulator generates radiation by excitation of a
gas-flow with an electron beam. The intensity of the radiation can be varied by
manipulating the gas-flow and/or the electron beam.
  The VUV simulator has been calibrated at three different gas-flow settings in
the range from $40$ nm to $410$ nm. The calibration has been made by the
Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) in Berlin. The measured spectra
show total irradiance intensities from $24$ to $58$ mW$\rm{m^{-2}}$ (see Table
4.2) in the VUV-range, i.e. for wavelengths smaller than $200$ nm. They exhibit
a large number of spectral lines generated either by the gas-flow constituents
or by metal atoms in the residual gas which come from metals used in the source
construction. In the range from $40$ nm to $120$ nm where Deuterium lamps are
not usable, acceleration factors of $3$ to $26.3$ Solar Constants are reached
depending on the gas-flow setting. The VUV-simulator allows studies of general
degradation effects caused by photoionization and photodissociation as well as
accelerated degradation tests by use of intensities that are significantly
higher compared to that of the Sun at $1$ AU.