The structure of sexual contacts, its contacts network and its temporal
interactions, play an important role in the spread of sexually transmitted
infections. Unfortunately, that kind of data is very hard to obtain. One of the
few exceptions is the "Romantic network" which is a complete structure of a
real sexual network of a high school. In terms of topology, unlike other sexual
networks classified as scale-free network. Regarding the temporal structure,
several studies indicate that relationship timing can have effects on diffusion
through networks, as relationship order determines transmission routes.With the
aim to check if the particular structure, static and dynamic, of the Romantic
network is determinant for the propagation of an STI in it, we perform
simulations in two scenarios: the static network where all contacts are
available and the dynamic case where contacts evolve in time. In the static
case, we compare the epidemic results in the Romantic network with some
paradigmatic topologies. We further study the behavior of the epidemic on the
Romantic network in response to the effect of any individual, belonging to the
network, having a contact with an external infected subject, the influence of
the degree of the initial infected, and the effect of the variability of
contacts per unit time. We also consider the dynamics of formation of pairs in
and we study the propagation of the diseases in this dynamic scenario. Our
results suggest that while the Romantic network can not be labeled as a
Watts-Strogatz network, it is, regarding the propagation of an STI, very close
to one with high disorder. Our simulations confirm that relationship timing
affects, but strongly lowering, the final outbreak size. Besides, shows a clear
correlation between the average degree and the outbreak size over time.