The 5G wireless network architecture will bring dense deployments of base
stations called {\em small cells} for both outdoors and indoors traffic. The
feasibility of their dense deployments depends on the existence of a high
data-rate transport network that can provide high-data backhaul from an
aggregation node where data traffic originates and terminates, to every such
small cell. Due to the limited range of radio signals in the high frequency
bands, multihop wireless connection may need to be established between each
access node and an aggregation node. In this paper, we present a novel
transmission scheme for wireless multihop backhaul for 5G networks. The scheme
consists of 1) {\em group successive relaying} that established a relay
schedule to efficiently exploit half-duplex relays and 2) an optimized
quantize-map-and-forward (QMF) coding scheme that improves the performance of
QMF and reduces the decoding complexity and the delay. We derive an achievable
rate region of the proposed scheme and attain a closed-form expression in the
asymptotic case for several network models of interests. It is shown that the
proposed scheme provides a significant gain over multihop routing (based on
decode-and-forward), which is a solution currently proposed for wireless
multihop backhaul network. Furthermore, the performance gap increases as a
network becomes denser. For the proposed scheme, we then develop
energy-efficient routing that determines {\em groups} of participating relays
for every hop. To reflect the metric used in the routing algorithm, we refer to
it as {\em interference-harnessing} routing. By turning interference into a
useful signal, each relay requires a lower transmission power to achieve a
desired performance compared to other routing schemes. Finally, we present a
low-complexity successive decoder, which makes it feasible to use the proposed
scheme in practice.