Overland flow on agricultural fields may have some undesirable effects such
as soil erosion, flood and pollutant transport. To better understand this
phenomenon and limit its consequences, we developed a code using
state-of-the-art numerical methods: FullSWOF (Full Shallow Water equations for
Overland Flow), an object oriented code written in C++. It has been made
open-source and can be downloaded from
http://www.univ-orleans.fr/mapmo/soft/FullSWOF/. The model is based on the
classical system of Shallow Water (SW) (or Saint-Venant system). Numerical
difficulties come from the numerous dry/wet transitions and the highly-variable
topography encountered inside a field. It includes runon and rainfall inputs,
infiltration (modified Green-Ampt equation), friction (Darcy-Weisbach and
Manning formulas). First we present the numerical method for the resolution of
the Shallow Water equations integrated in FullSWOF_2D (the two-dimension
version). This method is based on hydrostatic reconstruction scheme, coupled
with a semi-implicit friction term treatment. FullSWOF_2D has been previously
validated using analytical solutions from the SWASHES library (Shallow Water
Analytic Solutions for Hydraulic and Environmental Studies). Finally,
FullSWOF_2D is run on a real topography measured on a runoff plot located in
Thies (Senegal). Simulation results are compared with measured data. This
experimental benchmark demonstrate the capabilities of FullSWOF to simulate
adequately overland flow. FullSWOF could also be used for other environmental
issues, such as river floods and dam-breaks.