The collective behavior of cortical neurons is strongly affected by the
presence of noise at the level of individual cells. In order to study these
phenomena in large-scale assemblies of neurons, we consider networks of
firing-rate neurons with linear intrinsic dynamics and nonlinear coupling,
belonging to a few types of cell populations and receiving noisy currents.
Asymptotic equations as the number of neurons tends to infinity (mean field
equations) are rigorously derived based on a probabilistic approach. These
equations are implicit on the probability distribution of the solutions which
generally makes their direct analysis difficult. However, in our case, the
solutions are Gaussian, and their moments satisfy a closed system of nonlinear
ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which are much easier to study than the
original stochastic network equations, and the statistics of the empirical
process uniformly converge towards the solutions of these ODEs. Based on this
description, we analytically and numerically study the influence of noise on
the collective behaviors, and compare these asymptotic regimes to simulations
of the network. We observe that the mean field equations provide an accurate
description of the solutions of the network equations for network sizes as
small as a few hundreds of neurons. In particular, we observe that the level of
noise in the system qualitatively modifies its collective behavior, producing
for instance synchronized oscillations of the whole network, desynchronization
of oscillating regimes, and stabilization or destabilization of stationary
solutions. These results shed a new light on the role of noise in shaping
collective dynamics of neurons, and gives us clues for understanding similar
phenomena observed in biological networks.