Connectivity and capacity are two fundamental properties of wireless
multi-hop networks. The scalability of these properties has been a primary
concern for which asymptotic analysis is a useful tool. Three related but
logically distinct network models are often considered in asymptotic analyses,
viz. the dense network model, the extended network model and the infinite
network model, which consider respectively a network deployed in a fixed finite
area with a sufficiently large node density, a network deployed in a
sufficiently large area with a fixed node density, and a network deployed in
$\Re^{2}$ with a sufficiently large node density. The infinite network model
originated from continuum percolation theory and asymptotic results obtained
from the infinite network model have often been applied to the dense and
extended networks. In this paper, through two case studies related to network
connectivity on the expected number of isolated nodes and on the vanishing of
components of finite order k>1 respectively, we demonstrate some subtle but
important differences between the infinite network model and the dense and
extended network models. Therefore extra scrutiny has to be used in order for
the results obtained from the infinite network model to be applicable to the
dense and extended network models. Asymptotic results are also obtained on the
expected number of isolated nodes, the vanishingly small impact of the boundary
effect on the number of isolated nodes and the vanishing of components of
finite order k>1 in the dense and extended network models using a generic
random connection model.