Models for tidal disruption events (TDEs) in which a supermassive black hole
disrupts a star commonly assume that the highly eccentric streams of bound
stellar debris promptly form a circular accretion disk at the pericenter scale.
However, the bolometric peak luminosity of most TDE candidates,
$\sim10^{44}\,\rm{erg\,s^{-1}}$, implies that we observe only $\sim1\%$ of the
energy expected from accretion. Moreover, recent numerical simulations
(Shiokawa et al. 2015) have shown that dissipation via hydrodynamical shocks is
insufficient to circularize debris orbits on the pericenter scale, and the
debris flow retains its initial semi-major axis scale throughout the first
$\sim10$ orbits of the event. Motivated by these numerical results, Piran et
al. (2015) suggested that the observed optical TDE emission is powered by
shocks at the apocenter between freshly infalling material and earlier-arriving
matter. This model explains the small radiated energy, the low temperature, and
the large radius implied by the observations as well as the $t^{-5/3}$ light
curve. However the question of the system's low efficiency remains unanswered.
We suggest that the high orbital energy and low angular momentum of the flow's
highly eccentric orbits make it possible for magnetic stresses to reduce the
matter's already small angular momentum to the point at which it can pass
within the ISCO before these stresses remove enough energy to circularize the
orbit. As a result, the typical efficiency is only $\sim3\%$ of a standard
accretion disk's efficiency. Thus, the intrinsically high eccentricity of the
tidal debris naturally explains why most TDE candidates are fainter than
expected.