We investigate the effects of using the {\it full} waveform (FWF) over the
conventional {\it restricted} waveform (RWF) of the inspiral signal from a
coalescing compact binary (CCB) system in extracting the parameters of the
source, using a global network of second generation interferometric detectors.
We study a hypothetical population of (1.4-10)$M_\odot$ NS-BH binaries
(uniformly distributed and oriented in the sky) by employing the full
post-Newtonian waveforms, which not only include contributions from various
harmonics other than the dominant one (quadrupolar mode) but also the
post-Newtonian amplitude corrections associated with each harmonic, of the
inspiral signal expected from this system. It is expected that the GW detector
network consisting of the two LIGO detectors and a Virgo detector will be
joined by KAGRA and by proposed LIGO-India. We study the problem of parameter
estimation with all 16 possible detector configurations. Comparing medians of
error distributions obtained using FWFs with those obtained using RWFs (which
only include contributions from the dominant harmonic with Newtonian amplitude)
we find that the measurement accuracies for luminosity distance and the cosine
of the inclination angle improve almost by a factor of 1.5-2 depending upon the
network under consideration. Although the use of FWF does not improve the
source localization accuracy much, the global network consisting of five
detectors will improve the source localization accuracy by a factor of 4 as
compared to the estimates using a 3 detector LIGO-Virgo network for the same
waveform model.