With the explosive growth of mobile data demand, there has been an increasing
interest in deploying small cells of higher frequency bands underlying the
conventional homogeneous macrocell network, which is usually referred to as
heterogeneous cellular networks, to significantly boost the overall network
capacity. With vast amounts of spectrum available in the millimeter wave
(mmWave) band, small cells at mmWave frequencies are able to provide
multi-gigabit access data rates, while the wireless backhaul in the mmWave band
is emerging as a cost-effective solution to provide high backhaul capacity to
connect access points (APs) of the small cells. In order to operate the mobile
network optimally, it is necessary to jointly design the radio access and
backhaul networks. Meanwhile, direct transmissions between devices should also
be considered to improve system performance and enhance the user experience. In
this paper, we propose a joint transmission scheduling scheme for the radio
access and backhaul of small cells in the mmWave band, termed D2DMAC, where a
path selection criterion is designed to enable device-to-device transmissions
for performance improvement. In D2DMAC, a concurrent transmission scheduling
algorithm is proposed to fully exploit spatial reuse in mmWave networks.
Through extensive simulations under various traffic patterns and user
deployments, we demonstrate D2DMAC achieves near-optimal performance in some
cases, and outperforms other protocols significantly in terms of delay and
throughput. Furthermore, we also analyze the impact of path selection on the
performance improvement of D2DMAC under different selected parameters.