A distributed single-hop wireless network with $K$ links is considered, where
the links are partitioned into a fixed number ($M$) of clusters each operating
in a subchannel with bandwidth $\frac{W}{M}$. The subchannels are assumed to be
orthogonal to each other. A general shadow-fading model, described by
parameters $(\alpha,\varpi)$, is considered where $\alpha$ denotes the
probability of shadowing and $\varpi$ ($\varpi \leq 1$) represents the average
cross-link gains. The main goal of this paper is to find the maximum network
throughput in the asymptotic regime of $K \to \infty$, which is achieved by: i)
proposing a distributed and non-iterative power allocation strategy, where the
objective of each user is to maximize its best estimate (based on its local
information, i.e., direct channel gain) of the average network throughput, and
ii) choosing the optimum value for $M$. In the first part of the paper, the
network hroughput is defined as the \textit{average sum-rate} of the network,
which is shown to scale as $\Theta (\log K)$. Moreover, it is proved that in
the strong interference scenario, the optimum power allocation strategy for
each user is a threshold-based on-off scheme. In the second part, the network
throughput is defined as the \textit{guaranteed sum-rate}, when the outage
probability approaches zero. In this scenario, it is demonstrated that the
on-off power allocation scheme maximizes the throughput, which scales as
$\frac{W}{\alpha \varpi} \log K$. Moreover, the optimum spectrum sharing for
maximizing the average sum-rate and the guaranteed sum-rate is achieved at M=1.