While spike timing has been shown to carry detailed stimulus information at
the sensory periphery, its possible role in network computation is less clear.
Most models of computation by neural networks are based on population firing
rates. In equivalent spiking implementations, firing is assumed to be random
such that averaging across populations of neurons recovers the rate-based
approach. Recently, however, Den\'eve and colleagues have suggested that the
spiking behavior of neurons may be fundamental to how neuronal networks
compute, with precise spike timing determined by each neuron's contribution to
producing the desired output. By postulating that each neuron fires in order to
reduce the error in the network's output, it was demonstrated that linear
computations can be carried out by networks of integrate-and-fire neurons that
communicate through instantaneous synapses. This left open, however, the
possibility that realistic networks, with conductance-based neurons with
subthreshold nonlinearity and the slower timescales of biophysical synapses,
may not fit into this framework. Here, we show how the spike-based approach can
be extended to biophysically plausible networks. We then show that our network
reproduces a number of key features of cortical networks including irregular
and Poisson-like spike times and a tight balance between excitation and
inhibition. Lastly, we discuss how the behavior of our model scales with
network size, or with the number of neurons "recorded" from a larger computing
network. These results significantly increase the biological plausibility of
the spike-based approach to network computation.