High-density carbon nanotube networks (CNNs) continue to attract interest as
active elements in nanoelectronic devices, nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS)
and multifunctional nanocomposites. The interplay between the network
nanostructure and the its properties is crucial, yet current understanding
remains limited to the passive response. Here, we employ a novel superstructure
consisting of millimeter-long vertically aligned singe walled carbon nanotubes
(SWCNTs) sandwiched between polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) layers to quantify the
effect of two classes of mechanical stimuli, film densification and stretching,
on the electronic and thermal transport across the network. The network deforms
easily with increase in electrical and thermal conductivities suggestive of
floppy yet highly reconfigurable network. Insight from atomistically informed
coarse-grained simulations uncover an interplay between the extent of lateral
assembly of the bundles, modulated by surface zipping/unzipping, and the
elastic energy associated with the bent conformations of the nanotubes/bundles.
During densification, the network becomes highly interconnected yet we observe
a modest increase in bundling primarily due to the reduced spacing between the
SWCNTs. The stretching, on the other hand, is characterized by an initial
debundling regime as the strain accommodation occurs via unzipping of the
branched interconnects, followed by rapid re-bundling as the strain transfers
to the increasingly aligned bundles. In both cases, the increase in the
electrical and thermal conductivity is primarily due to the increase in bundle
size; the changes in network connectivity have a minor effect on the transport.
Our results have broad implications for filamentous networks of inorganic
nanoassemblies composed of interacting tubes, wires and ribbons/belts.