Mapping origin-destination (OD) network traffic is pivotal for network
management and proactive security tasks. However, lack of sufficient flow-level
measurements as well as potential anomalies pose major challenges towards this
goal. Leveraging the spatiotemporal correlation of nominal traffic, and the
sparse nature of anomalies, this paper brings forth a novel framework to map
out nominal and anomalous traffic, which treats jointly important network
monitoring tasks including traffic estimation, anomaly detection, and traffic
interpolation. To this end, a convex program is first formulated with nuclear
and $\ell_1$-norm regularization to effect sparsity and low rank for the
nominal and anomalous traffic with only the link counts and a {\it small}
subset of OD-flow counts. Analysis and simulations confirm that the proposed
estimator can {\em exactly} recover sufficiently low-dimensional nominal
traffic and sporadic anomalies so long as the routing paths are sufficiently
"spread-out" across the network, and an adequate amount of flow counts are
randomly sampled. The results offer valuable insights about data acquisition
strategies and network scenaria giving rise to accurate traffic estimation. For
practical networks where the aforementioned conditions are possibly violated,
the inherent spatiotemporal traffic patterns are taken into account by adopting
a Bayesian approach along with a bilinear characterization of the nuclear and
$\ell_1$ norms. The resultant nonconvex program involves quadratic regularizers
with correlation matrices, learned systematically from (cyclo)stationary
historical data. Alternating-minimization based algorithms with provable
convergence are also developed to procure the estimates. Insightful tests with
synthetic and real Internet data corroborate the effectiveness of the novel
schemes.