We study $AdS_5\times \Sigma_2$ and $AdS_4\times \Sigma_3$ solutions of
$N=2$, $SO(4)$ gauged supergravity in seven dimensions with $\Sigma_{2,3}$
being $S^{2,3}$ or $H^{2,3}$. The $SO(4)$ gauged supergravity is obtained from
coupling three vector multiplets to the pure $N=2$, $SU(2)$ gauged
supergravity. With a topological mass term for the 3-form field, the $SO(4)\sim
SU(2)\times SU(2)$ gauged supergravity admits two supersymmetric $AdS_7$
critical points, with $SO(4)$ and $SO(3)$ symmetries, provided that the two
$SU(2)$ gauge couplings are different. These vacua correspond to $N=(1,0)$
superconformal field theories (SCFTs) in six dimensions. In the case of
$\Sigma_2$, we find a class of $AdS_5\times S^2$ and $AdS_5\times H^2$
solutions preserving eight supercharges and $SO(2)\times SO(2)$ symmetry, but
only $AdS_5\times H^2$ solutions exist for $SO(2)$ symmetry. These should
correspond to some $N=1$ four-dimensional SCFTs. We also give RG flow solutions
from the $N=(1,0)$ SCFTs in six dimensions to these four-dimensional fixed
points including a two-step flow from the $SO(4)$ $N=(1,0)$ SCFT to the $SO(3)$
$N=(1,0)$ SCFT that eventually flows to the $N=1$ SCFT in four dimensions. For
$AdS_4\times\Sigma_3$, we find a class of $AdS_4\times S^3$ and $AdS_4\times
H^3$ solutions with four supercharges, corresponding to $N=1$ SCFTs in three
dimensions. When the two $SU(2)$ gauge couplings are equal, only $AdS_4\times
H^3$ are possible. The uplifted solutions for equal $SU(2)$ gauge couplings to
eleven dimensions are also given.