In this paper, we study the decentralized parallel multiple access channel
(MAC) when transmitters selfishly maximize their individual spectral efficiency
by selecting a single channel to transmit. More specifically, we investigate
the set of Nash equilibria (NE) of decentralized networks comprising several
transmitters communicating with a single receiver that implements single user
decoding. This scenario is modeled as a one-shot game where the players (the
transmitters) have discrete action sets (the channels). We show that the
corresponding game has always at least one NE in pure strategies, but,
depending on certain parameters, the game might possess several NE. We provide
an upper bound for the maximum number of NE as a function of the number of
transmitters and available channels. The main contribution of this paper is a
mathematical proof of the existence of a Braess-type paradox. In particular, it
is shown that under the assumption of a fully loaded network, when transmitters
are allowed to use all the available channels, the corresponding sum spectral
efficiency achieved at the NE is lower or equal than the sum spectral
efficiency achieved when transmitters can use only one channel. A formal proof
of this observation is provided in the case of small networks. For general
scenarios, we provide numerical examples that show that the same effect holds
as long as the network is kept fully loaded. We conclude the paper by
considering the case of successive interference cancellation at the receiver.
In this context, we show that the power allocation vectors at the NE are
capacity maximizers. Finally, simulations are presented to verify our
theoretical results.