The effects of viscoelasticity on the dynamics and break-up of fluid threads
in microfluidic T-junctions are investigated using numerical simulations of
dilute polymer solutions at changing the Capillary number ($\mbox {Ca}$), i.e.
at changing the balance between the viscous forces and the surface tension at
the interface, up to $\mbox{Ca} \approx 3 \times 10^{-2}$. A Navier-Stokes (NS)
description of the solvent based on the lattice Boltzmann models (LBM) is here
coupled to constitutive equations for finite extensible non-linear elastic
dumbbells with the closure proposed by Peterlin (FENE-P model). We present the
results of three-dimensional simulations in a range of $\mbox{Ca}$ which is
broad enough to characterize all the three characteristic mechanisms of breakup
in the confined T-junction, i.e. ${\it squeezing}$, ${\it dripping}$ and ${\it
jetting}$ regimes. The various model parameters of the FENE-P constitutive
equations, including the polymer relaxation time $\tau_P$ and the finite
extensibility parameter $L^2$, are changed to provide quantitative details on
how the dynamics and break-up properties are affected by viscoelasticity. We
will analyze cases with ${\it Droplet ~Viscoelasticity}$ (DV), where
viscoelastic properties are confined in the dispersed (d) phase, as well as
cases with ${\it Matrix ~Viscoelasticity}$ (MV), where viscoelastic properties
are confined in the continuous (c) phase. Moderate flow-rate ratios $Q \approx
{\cal O}(1)$ of the two phases are considered in the present study. Overall, we
find that the effects are more pronounced in the case with MV, as the flow
driving the break-up process upstream of the emerging thread can be sensibly
perturbed by the polymer stresses.