Predicting performance-related behavior of the underlying network structure
becomes more and more indispensable in terms of the aspired application outcome
quality. However, the reliable forecast of QoS metrics like packet transfer
delay in wireless network systems is still a challenging task. Even though
existing approaches are technically capable of determining such network
properties under certain assumptions, they mostly abstract away from primal
aspects that inherently have an essential impact on temporal network
performance dynamics. Also, they usually require auxiliary resources to be
implemented and deployed along with the actual network components. In the
course of developing a lightweight measurement-based alternative for the
self-inspection and prediction of volatile performance characteristics in
environments of any kind, we selectively investigate the duration of message
delivery and packet loss rate against various parameters peculiar to common
radio network technologies like Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs). Our hands-on
experiments reveal the relations between the oftentimes underestimated medium
access delay and a variety of main influencing factors including packet size,
backoff period, and number of neighbor nodes contending for the communication
medium. A closed formulation of selected weighted drivers facilitates the
average-case prediction of inter-node packet transfer delays for arbitrary
configurations of given network parameters even on resource-scarce WSN devices.
We validate our prediction method against basic multi-hop networking scenarios.
Yield field test results proof the basic feasibility and high precision of our
approach to network property estimation in virtue of self-governed local
measurements and regression-based calculations paving the way for a prospective
self-management of network properties based upon autonomous distributed
coordination.