Complex networks have established themselves along the last years as being
particularly suitable and flexible for representing and modeling several
complex natural and human-made systems. At the same time in which the
structural intricacies of such networks are being revealed and understood,
efforts have also been directed at investigating how such connectivity
properties define and constrain the dynamics of systems unfolding on such
structures. However, lesser attention has been focused on hybrid systems,
\textit{i.e.} involving more than one type of network and/or dynamics. Because
several real systems present such an organization (\textit{e.g.} the dynamics
of a disease coexisting with the dynamics of the immune system), it becomes
important to address such hybrid systems. The current paper investigates a
specific system involving a diffusive (linear and non-linear) dynamics taking
place in a regular network while interacting with a complex network of
defensive agents following Erd\"os-R\'enyi and Barab\'asi-Albert graph models,
whose nodes can be displaced spatially. More specifically, the complex network
is expected to control, and if possible to extinguish, the diffusion of some
given unwanted process (\textit{e.g.} fire, oil spilling, pest dissemination,
and virus or bacteria reproduction during an infection). Two types of pattern
evolution are considered: Fick and Gray-Scott. The nodes of the defensive
network then interact with the diffusing patterns and communicate between
themselves in order to control the spreading. The main findings include the
identification of higher efficiency for the Barab\'asi-Albert control networks.