Routing in wireless mesh networks (WMNs) has been an active area of research
for the last several years. In this paper, we address the problem of packet
routing for efficient data forwarding in wireless mesh networks (WMNs) with the
help of smart ants acting as intelligent agents. The aim of this paper is to
study the use of such biologically inspired agents to effectively route the
packets in WMNs. In particular, we propose AntMesh, a distributed
interference-aware data forwarding algorithm which enables the use of smart
ants to probabilistically and concurrently perform the routing and data
forwarding in order to stochastically solve a dynamic network routing problem.
AntMesh belongs to the class of routing algorithms inspired by the behaviour of
real ants which are known to find a shortest path between their nest and a food
source. In addition, AntMesh has the capability to effectively utilize the
space/channel diversity typically common in multi radio WMNs and to discover
high throughput paths with less inter-flow and intra-flow interference while
conventional wireless network routing protocols fail to do so. We implement our
smart ant-based routing algorithm in ns-2 and carry out extensive evaluation.
We demonstrate the stability of AntMesh in terms of how quickly it adapts
itself to the changing dynamics or load on the network. We tune the parameters
of AntMesh algorithm to study the effect on its performance in terms of the
routing load and end-to-end delay and have tested its performance under various
network scenarios particularly fixed nodes mesh networks and also on mobile WMN
scenarios. The results obtained show AntMesh's advantages that make it a
valuable candidate to operate in mesh networks.