Scaling behavior of scale-free evolving networks arising in communications,
citations, collaborations, etc. areas is studied. We derive universal scaling
relations describing properties of such networks and indicate limits of their
validity. We show that main properties of scale-free evolving networks may be
described in frames of a simple continuous approach. The simplest models of
networks, which growth is determined by a mechanism of preferential linking,
are used. We consider different forms of this preference and demonstrate that
the range of types of preference linking producing scale-free networks is wide.
We obtain also scaling relations for networks with nonlinear, accelerating
growth and describe temporal evolution of arising distributions. Size-effects -
cut-offs of these distributions - implement restrictions for observation of
power-law dependences. The main characteristic of interest is so-called degree
distribution, i.e., distribution of a number of connections of nodes. A scaling
form of the distribution of links between pairs of individual nodes for the
growing network of citations is also studied. We describe effects that produce
difference of nodes. ``Aging'' of nodes changes exponents of distributions.
Appearence of a single ``strong'' node changes dramatically the degree
distribution of a network. If its strength exceeds some threshold value, the
strong node captures a finite part of all links of a network. We show that
permanent random damage of a growing scale-free network - permanent deleting of
some links - change radically values of the scaling exponents. We describe the
arising rich phase diagram. Results of other types of permanent damage are
described.