Anatomic connections between brain areas affect information flow between
neuronal circuits and the synchronization of neuronal activity. However, such
structural connectivity does not coincide with effective connectivity, related
to the more elusive question "Which areas cause the present activity of which
others?". Effective connectivity is directed and depends flexibly on contexts
and tasks. Here we show that a dynamic effective connectivity can emerge from
transitions in the collective organization of coherent neural activity.
Integrating simulation and semi-analytic approaches, we study mesoscale network
motifs of interacting cortical areas, modeled as large random networks of
spiking neurons or as simple rate units. Through a causal analysis of
time-series of model neural activity, we show that different dynamical states
generated by a same structural connectivity motif correspond to distinct
effective connectivity motifs. Such effective motifs can display a dominant
directionality, due to spontaneous symmetry breaking and effective entrainment
between local brain rhythms, although all connections in the considered
structural motifs are reciprocal [...] Finally, we analyze how the information
encoded in spiking patterns of a local neuronal population is propagated across
a fixed structural connectivity motif, demonstrating that changes in the active
effective connectivity regulate both the efficiency and the directionality of
information transfer [...] Going beyond these early proposals, we advance here
that dynamic interactions between brain rhythms provide as well the basis for
the self-organized control of this "communication-through-coherence", making
thus possible a fast "on-demand" reconfiguration of global information routing
modalities.