Networks are paradigms for describing complex biological, social and
technological systems. Here I argue that networks provide a coherent framework
to construct coarse-grained models for many different physical systems. To
elucidate these ideas, I discuss two long-standing problems. The first concerns
the structure and dynamics of magnetic fields in the solar corona, as
exemplified by sunspots that startled Galileo almost 400 years ago. We
discovered that the magnetic structure of the corona embodies a scale free
network, with spots at all scales. A network model representing the
three-dimensional geometry of magnetic fields, where links rewire and nodes
merge when they collide in space, gives quantitative agreement with available
data, and suggests new measurements. Seismicity is addressed in terms of
relations between events without imposing space-time windows. A metric
estimates the correlation between any two earthquakes. Linking strongly
correlated pairs, and ignoring pairs with weak correlation organizes the
spatio-temporal process into a sparse, directed, weighted network. New scaling
laws for seismicity are found. For instance, the aftershock decay rate
decreases as 1/t in time up to a correlation time, t[omori]. An estimate from
the data gives t[omori] to be about one year for small magnitude 3 earthquakes,
about 1400 years for the Landers event, and roughly 26,000 years for the
earthquake causing the 2004 Asian tsunami. Our results confirm Kagan's
conjecture that aftershocks can rumble on for centuries.