We discuss a phenomenological approach to the description of unstable vehicle
motion on multilane highways that explains in a simple way the observed
sequence of the phase transitions "free flow -> synchronized motion -> jam" as
well as the hysteresis in the transition "free flow <-> synchronized motion".
We introduce a new variable called order parameter that accounts for possible
correlations in the vehicle motion at different lanes. So, it is principally
due to the "many-body" effects in the car interaction, which enables us to
regard it as an additional independent state variable of traffic flow. Basing
on the latest experimental data (cond-mat/9905216) we assume that these
correlations are due to a small group of "fast" drivers. Taking into account
the general properties of the driver behavior we write the governing equation
for the order parameter. In this context we analyze the instability of
homogeneous traffic flow manifesting itself in both of the mentioned above
phase transitions where, in addition, the transition "synchronized motion ->
jam" also exhibits a similar hysteresis. Besides, the jam is characterized by
the vehicle flows at different lanes being independent of one another. We
specify a certain simplified model in order to study the general features of
the car cluster self-formation under the phase transition "free flow <->
synchronized motion". In particular, we show that the main local parameters of
the developed cluster are determined by the state characteristics of vehicle
motion only.