Sensors have limited resources so it is important to manage the resources
efficiently to maximize their use. A sensor's battery is a crucial resource as
it singly determines the lifetime of sensor network applications. Since these
devices are useful only when they are able to communicate with the world, radio
transceiver of a sensor as an I/O and a costly unit plays a key role in its
lifetime. This resource often consumes a big portion of the sensor's energy as
it must be active most of the time to announce the existence of the sensor in
the network. As such the radio component has to deal with its embedded sensor
network whose parameters and operations have significant effects on the
sensor's lifetime. In existing energy models, hardware is considered, but the
environment and the network's parameters did not receive adequate attention.
Energy consumption components of traditional network architecture are often
considered individually and separately, and their influences on each other have
not been considered in these approaches. In this paper we consider all possible
tasks of a sensor in its embedded network and propose an energy management
model. We categorize these tasks in five energy consuming constituents. The
sensor's Energy Consumption (EC) is modeled on its energy consuming
constituents and their input parameters and tasks. The sensor's EC can thus be
reduced by managing and executing efficiently the tasks of its constituents.
The proposed approach can be effective for power management, and it also can be
used to guide the design of energy efficient wireless sensor networks through
network parameterization and optimization.