The Next Generation Networks (NGN) aims to integrate for IP-based telecom
infrastructures and provide most advance & high speed emerging value added
services. NGN capable to provide higher innovative services, these services
will able to integrate communication and Web service into a single platform. IP
Multimedia Subsystem, a NGN leading technology, enables a variety of
NGN-compliant communications services to interoperate while being accessed
through different kinds of access networks, preferably broadband. IMS-NGN
services essential by both consumer and corporate users are by now used to
access services, even communications services through the web and web-based
communities and social networks, It is key for success of IMS-based services to
be provided with efficient web access, so users can benefit from those new
services by using web-based applications and user interfaces, not only NGN-IMS
User Equipments and SIP protocol. Many Service are under planning which
provided only under convergence of IMS & Web 2.0. Convergence between Web 2.0
and NGN-IMS creates and serves new invented innovative, entertainment and
information appealing as well as user centric services and applications. These
services merge features from WWW and Communication worlds. On the one hand,
interactivity, ubiquity, social orientation, user participation and content
generation, etc. are relevant characteristics coming from Web 2.0 services.
Parallel IMS enables services including multimedia telephony, media sharing
(video-audio), instant messaging with presence and context, online directory,
etc. all of them applicable to mobile, fixed or convergent telecom networks.
With this paper, this paper brings out the benefits of adopting web 2.0
technologies for telecom services. As the services are today mainly driven by
the user's needs, and proposed the concept of unique customizable service
interface.