We investigate by direct numerical simulations the flow that rising bubbles
cause in an originally quiescent fluid. We employ the Eulerian-Lagrangian
method with two-way coupling and periodic boundary conditions. In order to be
able to treat up to 288000 bubbles, the following approximations and
simplifications had to be introduced: (i) The bubbles were treated as
point-particles, thus (ii) disregarding the near-field interactions among them,
and (iii) effective force models for the lift and the drag forces were used. In
particular, the lift coefficient was assumed to be 1/2, independent of the
bubble Reynolds number and the local flow field. The results suggest that large
scale motions are generated, owing to an inverse energy cascade from the small
to the large scales. However, as the Taylor-Reynolds number is only in the
range of 1, the corresponding scaling of the energy spectrum with an exponent
of -5/3 cannot develop over a pronounced range. In the long term, the property
of local energy transfer, characteristic of real turbulence, is lost and the
input of energy equals the viscous dissipation at all scales. Due to the lack
of strong vortices the bubbles spread rather uniformly in the flow. The
mechanism for uniform spreading is as follows: Rising bubbles induce a velocity
field behind them that acts on the following bubbles. Owing to the shear, those
bubbles experience a lift force which make them spread to the left or right,
thus preventing the formation of vertical bubble clusters and therefore of
efficient forcing. Indeed, when the lift is artifically put to zero in the
simulations, the flow is forced much more efficiently and a more pronounced
energy accumulates at large scales is achieved.