We reexamine the unipolar induction mechanism for heating asteroids
originally proposed in a classic series of papers by Sonett and collaborators.
As originally conceived, induction heating is caused by the "motional electric
field" which appears in the frame of an asteroid immersed in a fully-ionized,
magnetized solar wind and drives currents through its interior. However we
point out that classical induction heating contains a subtle conceptual error,
in consequence of which the electric field inside the asteroid was calculated
incorrectly. The problem is that the motional electric field used by Sonett et
al. is the electric field in the freely streaming plasma far from the asteroid;
in fact the motional field vanishes at the asteroid surface for realistic
assumptions about the plasma density. In this paper we revisit and improve the
induction heating scenario by: (1) correcting the conceptual error by self
consistently calculating the electric field in and around the boundary layer at
the asteroid-plasma interface; (2) considering weakly-ionized plasmas
consistent with current ideas about protoplanetary disks; and (3) considering
more realistic scenarios which do not require a fully ionized, powerful T Tauri
wind in the disk midplane. We present exemplary solutions for two highly
idealized flows which show that the interior electric field can either vanish
or be comparable to the fields predicted by classical induction depending on
the flow geometry. We term the heating driven by these flows "electrodynamic
heating", calculate its upper limits, and compare them to heating produced by
short-lived radionuclides.