We present the results of a set of simulations designed to quantify the
selection function of the Bright SHARC survey for distant clusters. The
statistical significance of the simulations relied on the creation of thousands
of artificial clusters with redshifts and luminosities in the range 0.25<z<0.95
and 0.5<L_X<10x10^44 erg/s (0.5-2.0 keV). We created 1 standard and 19 varied
distribution functions, each of which assumed a different set of cluster,
cosmological and operational parameters. The parameters we varied included the
values of Omega_0, Omega_Lambda, Beta, core radius and ellipticity. We also
investigated how non-standard surface brightness profiles; cooling flows; and
the ROSAT pointing target, influence the selection function in the Bright SHARC
survey. For our standard set we adopted the parameters used during the
derivation of the Bright SHARC Cluster X-ray Luminosity Function (CXLF), i.e.
Omega_0=1, Omega_Lambda=0 and an isothermal Beta model with beta=0.67, r_c=250
kpc and e=0.15. We found that certain parameters have a dramatic effect on our
ability to detect clusters, e.g. the presence of a NFW profile or a strong
cooling flow profile, or the value of r_c and beta. Other parameters had very
little effect, e.g. the type of ROSAT target and the cluster ellipticity. We
show also that all the tested parameters have only a small influence on the
computed luminosity of the clusters except the presence of a strong cooling
flow. We conclude that the CXLF presented in Nichol et al. (1999) is robust
(under the assumption of standard parameters), but stress the importance of
cluster follow-up in order to better constrain the morphology of the distant
clusters found in the Bright SHARC and other surveys.