A series of simulated maps showing the appearance in total intensity of flows
computed using a recently developed relativistic hydrodynamic code (Duncan \&
Hughes 1994: ApJ, 436, L119) are presented. The radiation transfer calculations
were performed by assuming the flow is permeated by a magnetic field and fast
particle distribution in energy equipartition, with energy density proportional
to the hydrodynamic energy density (i.e., pressure). We find that relativistic
flows subject to strong perturbations exhibit a density structure consisting of
a series of nested bow shocks, and that this structure is evident in the
intensity maps for large viewing angles. However, for viewing angles
$<30^{\circ}$, differential Doppler boosting leads to a series of axial knots
of emission, similar to the pattern exhibited by many VLBI sources. The
appearance of VLBI knots is determined primarily by the Doppler boosting of
parts of a more extended flow. To study the evolution of a perturbed jet, a
time series of maps was produced and an integrated flux light curve created.
The light curve shows features characteristic of a radio loud AGN: small
amplitude variations and a large outburst. We find that in the absence of
perturbations, jets with a modest Lorentz factor ($\sim 5$) exhibit complex
intensity maps, while faster jets (Lorentz factor $\sim 10$) are largely
featureless. We also study the appearance of kiloparsec jet-counterjet pairs by
producing simulated maps at relatively large viewing angles; we conclude that
observed hot spot emission is more likely to be associated with the Mach disk
than with the outer, bow shock.