Using functions from electrical networks (graphs with resistors assigned to
edges), we prove existence (with explicit formulas) of a canonical Parseval
frame in the energy Hilbert space $\mathscr{H}_{E}$ of a prescribed infinite
(or finite) network. Outside degenerate cases, our Parseval frame is not an
orthonormal basis. We apply our frame to prove a number of explicit results:
With our Parseval frame and related closable operators in $\mathscr{H}_{E}$ we
characterize the Friedrichs extension of the $\mathscr{H}_{E}$-graph Laplacian.
  We consider infinite connected network-graphs $G=\left(V,E\right)$, $V$ for
vertices, and \emph{E} for edges. To every conductance function $c$ on the
edges $E$ of $G$, there is an associated pair
$\left(\mathscr{H}_{E},\Delta\right)$ where $\mathscr{H}_{E}$ in an energy
Hilbert space, and $\Delta\left(=\Delta_{c}\right)$ is the $c$-Graph Laplacian;
both depending on the choice of conductance function $c$. When a conductance
function is given, there is a current-induced orientation on the set of edges
and an associated natural Parseval frame in $\mathscr{H}_{E}$ consisting of
dipoles. Now $\Delta$ is a well-defined semibounded Hermitian operator in both
of the Hilbert $l^{2}\left(V\right)$ and $\mathscr{H}_{E}$. It is known to
automatically be essentially selfadjoint as an $l^{2}\left(V\right)$-operator,
but generally not as an $\mathscr{H}_{E}$ operator. Hence as an
$\mathscr{H}_{E}$ operator it has a Friedrichs extension. In this paper we
offer two results for the Friedrichs extension: a characterization and a
factorization. The latter is via $l^{2}\left(V\right)$.