We present an extended version of THERMINATOR, a Monte Carlo event generator
dedicated to studies of the statistical production of particles in relativistic
heavy-ion collisions. The increased functionality of the code contains the
following features: The input of any shape of the freeze-out hypersurface and
the expansion velocity field, including the 3+1 dimensional profiles, in
particular those generated externally with various hydrodynamic codes. The
hypersufraces may have variable thermal parameters, which allows for studies
departing significantly from the mid-rapidity region, where the baryon chemical
potential becomes large. We include a library of standard sets of hypersurfaces
and velocity profiles describing the RHIC Au+Au data at sqrt(s_(NN)) = 200 GeV
for various centralities, as well as those anticipated for the LHC Pb+Pb
collisions at sqrt(s_(NN)) = 5.5 TeV. A separate code, FEMTO-THERMINATOR, is
provided to carry out the analysis of femtoscopic correlations which are an
important source of information concerning the size and expansion of the
system. We also include several useful scripts that carry out auxiliary tasks,
such as obtaining an estimate of the number of elastic collisions after the
freeze-out, counting of particles flowing back into the fireball and violating
causality (typically very few), or visualizing various results: the particle
p_T-spectra, the elliptic flow coefficients, and the HBT correlation radii. We
also investigate the problem of the back-flow of particles into the
hydrodynamic region, as well as estimate the elastic rescattering in terms of
trajectory crossings. The package is written in C++ and uses the CERN ROOT
environment.