We study the emergence of long-range connectivity in multilayer networks
(also termed multiplex, composite and overlay networks) obtained by merging the
connectivity subgraphs of multiple percolating instances of an underlying
backbone network. Multilayer networks have applications ranging from studying
long-range connectivity in a communication or social network formed with hybrid
technologies, a transportation network connecting the same cities via rail,
road and air, in studying outbreaks of flu epidemics involving multiple viral
strains, studying temporal flow of information in dynamic networks, and
potentially in studying conductivity properties of graphene-like stacked
lattices. For a homogenous multilayer network---formed via merging $M$ random
site-percolating instances of the same graph $G$ with single-layer
site-occupation probability $q$---we argue that when $q$ exceeds a threshold
$q_c(M) = \Theta(1/\sqrt{M})$, a spanning cluster appears in the multilayer
network. Using a configuration model approach, we find $q_c(M)$ exactly for
random graphs with arbitrary degree distributions, which have many applications
in mathematical sociology. For multilayer percolation in a general graph $G$,
we show that $q_c/\sqrt{M} < q_c(M) < \sqrt{-\ln(1-p_c)}/{\sqrt{M}}, \forall M
\in {\mathbb Z}^+$, where $q_c$ and $p_c$ are the site and bond percolation
thresholds of $G$, respectively. We show a close connection between multilayer
percolation and mixed (site-bond) percolation, since both provide a smooth
bridge between pure-site and pure-bond percolations. We find excellent
approximations and bounds on layered percolation thresholds for regular
lattices using the aforesaid connection, and provide several exact results (via
numerical simulations), and a specialized bound for the multilayer kagome
lattice using a site-to-bond transformation technique.