Large-Eddy Simulations (LES) of two-phase turbulent flows exhibit
quantitative differences in particle statistics if compared to Direct Numerical
Simulations (DNS) which, in the context of the present study, is considered the
exact reference case. Differences are primarily due to filtering, a fundamental
intrinsic feature of LES. Filtering the fluid velocity field yields approximate
computation of the forces acting on particles and, in turn, trajectories that
are inaccurate when compared to those of DNS. In this paper, we focus precisely
on the filtering error for which we quantify a lower bound. To this aim, we use
a DNS database of inertial particle dispersion in turbulent channel flow and we
perform a-priori tests in which the error purely due to filtering is singled
out removing error accumulation effects, which would otherwise lead to
progressive divergence between DNS and LES particle trajectories. By applying
filters of different type and width at varying particle inertia, we
characterize the statistical properties of the filtering error as a function of
the wall distance. Results show that filtering error is stochastic and has a
non-Gaussian distribution. In addition, the distribution of the filtering error
depends strongly on the wall-normal coordinate being maximum in the buffer
region. Our findings provide insight on the effect of subgrid-scale velocity
field on the force driving the particles, and establish the requirements which
a LES model must satisfy to predict correctly the velocity and the trajectory
of inertial particles.