In the present monograph we formulate a simple model for heat transfer in
living tissue with self - regulation. The initial point of the model is the
governing equations describing heat transfer in living tissue at the mesoscopic
level, i.e. considering different vessels individually. Then, basing on the
well known equivalence of the diffusion type process and random walks, we
develop a certain regular procedure that enables us to average these mesoscopic
equations practically over all scales of the hierarchical vascular network. The
microscopic governing equations obtained in this way describe living tissue in
terms of an active medium with continuously distributed self - regulation. One
of the interesting results obtained in the present monograph is that there can
be the phenomena of ideal self - regulation in large active hierarchical
systems. Large hierarchical systems are characterized by such a great
information flow that none of its elements can possess whole information
required of governing the system behavior. Nevertheless, there exists a
cooperative mechanism of regulation which involves individual response of each
element to the corresponding hierarchical piece of information and leads to
ideal system response due to self - processing of information. The particular
results are obtained for bioheat transfer. However, self - regulation in other
natural hierarchical systems seems to be organized in a similar way. The
characteristics of large hierarchical systems occurring in nature are discussed
from the stand point of regulation problems. By way of example, some ecological
and economic systems are considered. An cooperative mechanism of
self-regulation which enables the system to function ideally is proposed.