In this paper, we examine the fundamental trade-off between radiated power
and achieved throughput in wireless multi-carrier, multiple-input and
multiple-output (MIMO) systems that vary with time in an unpredictable fashion
(e.g. due to changes in the wireless medium or the users' QoS requirements).
Contrary to the static/stationary channel regime, there is no optimal power
allocation profile to target (either static or in the mean), so the system's
users must adapt to changes in the environment "on the fly", without being able
to predict the system's evolution ahead of time. In this dynamic context, we
formulate the users' power/throughput trade-off as an online optimization
problem and we provide a matrix exponential learning algorithm that leads to no
regret - i.e. the proposed transmit policy is asymptotically optimal in
hindsight, irrespective of how the system evolves over time. Furthermore, we
also examine the robustness of the proposed algorithm under imperfect channel
state information (CSI) and we show that it retains its regret minimization
properties under very mild conditions on the measurement noise statistics. As a
result, users are able to track the evolution of their individually optimum
transmit profiles remarkably well, even under rapidly changing network
conditions and high uncertainty. Our theoretical analysis is validated by
extensive numerical simulations corresponding to a realistic network deployment
and providing further insights in the practical implementation aspects of the
proposed algorithm.