We present a new class of solutions for the gas flows in elliptical galaxies
containing massive central black holes (BH). Modified King model galaxies are
assumed. Two source terms operate: mass loss from evolving stars, and a
secularly declining heating by SNIa. Relevant atomic physical processes are
modeled in detail. Like the previous models investigated by Ciotti et al.
(1991), these new models first evolve through three consecutive evolutionary
stages: wind, outflow, and inflow. At this point the presence of the BH alters
dramatically the subsequent evolution, because the energy emitted by the BH can
heat the surrounding gas to above virial temperatures, causing the formation of
a hot expanding central bubble. Short and strong nuclear bursts of radiation
are followed by longer periods during which the X-ray galaxy emission comes
from the coronal gas (Lx). The range and approximate distribution spanned by Lx
are found to be in accordance with observations of X-ray early type galaxies.
Moreover, although high accretion rates occur during bursting phases when the
central BH has a luminosity characteristic of QSOs, the total mass accreted is
very small when compared to that predicted by stationary cooling-flow solutions
and computed masses are in accord with putative BH nuclear masses. In the
bursting phases Lx is low and the surface brightness profile is very low
compared to pre-burst or to cooling flow models. We propose that these new
models, while solving some long-standing problems of the cooling flow scenario,
can provide a unified description of QSO-like objects and X-ray emitting
elliptical galaxies, these being the same objects observed at two different
evolutionary phases.