There is a growing interest in energy efficient or so-called "green" wireless
communication to reduce the energy consumption in cellular networks. Since
today's wireless terminals are typically equipped with multiple network access
interfaces such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and cellular networks, this paper
investigates user terminals cooperating with each other in transmitting their
data packets to the base station (BS), by exploiting the multiple network
access interfaces, called inter-network cooperation. We also examine the
conventional schemes without user cooperation and with intra-network
cooperation for comparison. Given target outage probability and data rate
requirements, we analyze the energy consumption of conventional schemes as
compared to the proposed inter-network cooperation by taking into account both
physical-layer channel impairments (including path loss, fading, and thermal
noise) and upper-layer protocol overheads. It is shown that distances between
different network entities (i.e., user terminals and BS) have a significant
influence on the energy efficiency of proposed inter-network cooperation
scheme. Specifically, when the cooperating users are close to BS or the users
are far away from each other, the inter-network cooperation may consume more
energy than conventional schemes without user cooperation or with intra-network
cooperation. However, as the cooperating users move away from BS and the
inter-user distance is not too large, the inter-network cooperation
significantly reduces the energy consumption over conventional schemes.