This technical report is divided into two parts. The first part of the
technical report presents a novel framework for modeling the uplink and
downlink intercell interference (ICI) in a multiuser cellular network. The
proposed framework assists in quantifying the impact of various fading channel
models and multiuser scheduling schemes on the uplink and downlink ICI.
Firstly, we derive a semi-analytical expression for the distribution of the
location of the scheduled user in a given cell considering a wide range of
scheduling schemes. Based on this, we derive the distribution and moment
generating function (MGF) of the ICI considering a single interfering cell.
Consequently, we determine the MGF of the cumulative ICI observed from all
interfering cells and derive explicit MGF expressions for three typical fading
models. Finally, we utilize the obtained expressions to evaluate important
network performance metrics such as the outage probability, ergodic capacity
and average fairness numerically. Monte-Carlo simulation results are provided
to demonstrate the efficacy of the derived analytical expressions {\bf The
first part of the technical report is currently submitted to IEEE Transactions
on Wireless Communications}. The second part of the technical report deals with
the statistical modeling of uplink inter-cell interference (ICI) considering
greedy scheduling with power adaptation based on channel conditions. The
derived model is utilized to evaluate important network performance metrics
such as ergodic capacity, average fairness and average power preservation
numerically. In parallel to the literature, we have shown that greedy
scheduling with power adaptation reduces the ICI, average power consumption of
users, and enhances the average fairness among users, compared to the case
without power adaptation.