This paper addresses the problem of obtaining low-order models of fluid flows
for the purpose of designing robust feedback controllers. This is challenging
since whilst many flows are governed by a set of nonlinear, partial
differential-algebraic equations (the Navier-Stokes equations), the majority of
established control theory assumes models of much greater simplicity, in that
they are firstly: linear, secondly: described by ordinary differential
equations, and thirdly: finite-dimensional. Linearisation, where appropriate,
overcomes the first disparity, but attempts to reconcile the remaining two have
proved difficult. This paper addresses these two problems as follows. Firstly,
a numerical approach is used to project the governing equations onto a
divergence-free basis, thus converting a system of differential-algebraic
equations into one of ordinary differential equations. This dispenses with the
need for analytical velocity-vorticity transformations, and thus simplifies the
modelling of boundary sensing and actuation. Secondly, this paper presents a
novel and straightforward approach for obtaining suitable low-order models of
fluid flows, from which robust feedback controllers can be synthesised that
provide a priori guarantees of robust performance when connected to the
(infinite-dimensional) linearised flow system. This approach overcomes many of
the problems inherent in approaches that rely upon model-reduction. To
illustrate these methods, a perturbation shear stress controller is designed
and applied to plane channel flow, assuming arrays of wall mounted shear-stress
sensors and transpiration actuators. DNS results demonstrate robust attenuation
of the perturbation shear-stresses across a wide range of Reynolds numbers with
a single, linear controller.