The fragmentation of shocked flows in a thermally bistable medium provides a
natural mechanism to form turbulent cold clouds as precursors to molecular
clouds. Yet because of the large density and temperature differences and the
range of dynamical scales involved, following this process with numerical
simulations is challenging. We compare two-dimensional simulations of
flow-driven cloud formation without self-gravity, using the Lagrangian Smoothed
Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) code VINE and the Eulerian grid code Proteus.
Results are qualitatively similar for both methods, yet the variable spatial
resolution of the SPH method leads to smaller fragments and thinner filaments,
rendering the overall morphologies different. Thermal and hydro-dynamical
instabilities lead to rapid cooling and fragmentation into cold clumps with
temperatures below 300K. For clumps more massive than 1 Msun/pc, the clump mass
function has an average slope of -0.8. The internal velocity dispersion of the
clumps is nearly an order of magnitude smaller than their relative motion,
rendering it subsonic with respect to the internal sound speed of the clumps,
but supersonic as seen by an external observer. For the SPH simulations most of
the cold gas resides at temperatures below 100K, while the grid-based models
show an additional, substantial component between 100 and 300K. Independently
of the numerical method our models confirm that converging flows of warm
neutral gas fragment rapidly and form high-density, low-temperature clumps as
possible seeds for star formation.