We report new HST NICMOS and WFPC2 imaging of emission-line nebulae in the
central galaxies of 3 clusters of galaxies purported to host massive cooling
flows, NGC1275, A2597, and PKS0745. The spectral signature of vibrationally-
excited molecular hydrogen (VEMH) has been seen in every galaxy searched so far
in a cluster cooling flow with an optical emission line nebula. We have
discovered that the VEMH gas extends several kpc from the centers of A2597 and
PKS0745, while the vibrationally-excited molecular hydrogen in NGC1275 appears
to be mostly confined to its nucleus, with some extended emission <1 kpc from
the center. The VEMH in A2597 and PKS0745-191 seems to be nearly co-spatial
with the optical emission-line filaments in those systems. Candidates for
heating the nebulae are X-ray irradiation by the ICM, UV fluorescence by young
stars, and shocks. UV heating by young stars provides the most satisfactory
explanation for the H2 emission in A2597 and PKS0745; X-ray irradiation is
energetically unlikely and strong shocks (v>40 km/s) are ruled out by the high
H2/H-alpha ratios. If UV heating is the main energy input, a few billion solar
masses of molecular gas is present in A2597 and PKS0745. UV irradiation models
predict a significant amount of 1-2 micron emission from higher excitation H2
transitions and moderate far infrared luminosities (~1e44/h^2 erg/s) for A2597
and PKS0745. Even in the context of UV fluorescence models, the total amount of
H2 gas and star formation inferred from these observations is too small to
account for the cooling flow rates and longevities inferred from the X-rays. We
note an interesting new constraint on cooling flow models: the radio sources do
not provide a significant amount of shock heating, and therefore cannot
counterbalance the cooling of the X-ray gas in the cluster cores.