Axial flow in an annulus between two concentric cylinders is commonly seen in
various flow devices used in chemical processing industries and petroleum
science and engineering. The flow state in the annulus strongly influences the
performance of fluid transportation in the devices. Therefore, the
determination of flow state which is laminar flow or turbulent flow is an
important task to predict the performance of the flow devices. In previous
works, we have proposed an energy gradient method for studying the flow
instability and turbulent transition. In this method, it is shown that the flow
instability and turbulent transition in wall bounded shear flows depend on the
relative magnitude of the gradient of the total mechanical energy in transverse
direction and the rate of loss of the total mechanical energy along the
streamwise direction for a given imposed disturbance. For pipe and plane
Poiseuille flows, it has been demonstrated that the transition to turbulence
for these wall bounded parallel flows occurs at a consistent value of the
energy gradient parameter (Kmax). In present study, the critical condition for
turbulent transition in annulus flow is calculated with the energy gradient
method for various radius ratios. The critical flow rate and critical Reynolds
number are given for various radius ratios. Then, the analytical results are
compared with the experiments in the literature. Finally, the implication of
the result is discussed in terms of the drag reduction and mixing as well as
heat transfer in practical industrial applications of various fluid delivery
devices.