Background: Autocatalytic sets are often considered a necessary (but not
sufficient) condition for the origin and early evolution of life. Although the
idea of autocatalytic sets was already conceived of many years ago, only
recently have they gained more interest, following advances in creating them
experimentally in the laboratory. In our own work, we have studied
autocatalytic sets extensively from a computational and theoretical point of
view.
  Results: We present results from an initial study of the dynamics of
self-sustaining autocatalytic sets (RAFs). In particular, simulations of
molecular flow on autocatalytic sets are performed, to illustrate the kinds of
dynamics that can occur. Next, we present an extension of our (previously
introduced) algorithm for finding autocatalytic sets in general reaction
networks, which can also handle inhibition. We show that in this case detecting
autocatalytic sets is fixed parameter tractable. Finally, we formulate a
generalized version of the algorithm that can also be applied outside the
context of chemistry and origin of life, which we illustrate with a toy example
from economics.
  Conclusions: Having shown theoretically (in previous work) that autocatalytic
sets are highly likely to exist, we conclude here that also in terms of
dynamics such sets are viable and outcompete non-autocatalytic sets.
Furthermore, our dynamical results confirm arguments made earlier about how
autocatalytic subsets can enable their own growth or give rise to other such
subsets coming into existence. Finally, our algorithmic extension and
generalization show that more realistic scenarios (e.g., including inhibition)
can also be dealt with within our framework, and that it can even be applied to
areas outside of chemistry, such as economics.