We study the degrees of freedom (DoF) of the layered 2 X 2 X 2 MIMO
interference channel where each node is equipped with arbitrary number of
antennas, the channels between the nodes have arbitrary rank constraints, and
subject to the rank-constraints the channel coefficients can take arbitrary
values. The DoF outer bounds reveal a fundamental rank-matching phenomenon,
reminiscent of impedance matching in circuit theory. It is well known that the
maximum power transfer in a circuit is achieved not for the maximum or minimum
load impedance but for the load impedance that matches the source impedance.
Similarly, the maximum DoF in the rank- constrained 2 X 2 X 2 MIMO interference
network is achieved not for the maximum or minimum ranks of the destination
hop, but when the ranks of the destination hop match the ranks of the source
hop. In fact, for mismatched settings of interest, the outer bounds identify a
DoF loss penalty that is precisely equal to the rank-mismatch between the two
hops. For symmetric settings, we also provide achievability results to show
that along with the min-cut max-flow bounds, the rank-mismatch bounds are the
best possible, i.e., they hold for all channels that satisfy the
rank-constraints and are tight for almost all channels that satisfy the
rank-constraints. Limited extensions - from sum-DoF to DoF region, from 2
unicasts to X message sets, from 2 hops to more than 2 hops and from 2 nodes
per layer to more than 2 nodes per layer - are considered to illustrate how the
insights generalize beyond the elemental 2 X 2 X 2 channel model.