New operating systems for mobile devices allow their users to download
millions of applications created by various individual programmers, some of
which may be malicious or flawed. In order to detect that an application is
malicious, monitoring its operation in a real environment for a significant
period of time is often required. Mobile devices have limited computation and
power resources and thus are limited in their monitoring capabilities. In this
paper we propose an efficient collaborative monitoring scheme that harnesses
the collective resources of many mobile devices, "vaccinating" them against
potentially unsafe applications. We suggest a new local information flooding
algorithm called "TTL Probabilistic Propagation" (TPP). The algorithm
periodically monitors one or more application and reports its conclusions to a
small number of other mobile devices, who then propagate this information
onwards. The algorithm is analyzed, and is shown to outperform existing state
of the art information propagation algorithms, in terms of convergence time as
well as network overhead. The maximal "load" of the algorithm (the fastest
arrival rate of new suspicious applications, that can still guarantee complete
monitoring), is analytically calculated and shown to be significantly superior
compared to any non-collaborative approach. Finally, we show both analytically
and experimentally using real world network data that implementing the proposed
algorithm significantly reduces the number of infected mobile devices. In
addition, we analytically prove that the algorithm is tolerant to several types
of Byzantine attacks where some adversarial agents may generate false
information, or abuse the algorithm in other ways.