Correlations in spike-train ensembles can seriously impair the encoding of
information by their spatio-temporal structure. An inevitable source of
correlation in finite neural networks is common presynaptic input to pairs of
neurons. Recent theoretical and experimental studies demonstrate that spike
correlations in recurrent neural networks are considerably smaller than
expected based on the amount of shared presynaptic input. By means of a linear
network model and simulations of networks of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons,
we show that shared-input correlations are efficiently suppressed by inhibitory
feedback. To elucidate the effect of feedback, we compare the responses of the
intact recurrent network and systems where the statistics of the feedback
channel is perturbed. The suppression of spike-train correlations and
population-rate fluctuations by inhibitory feedback can be observed both in
purely inhibitory and in excitatory-inhibitory networks. The effect is fully
understood by a linear theory and becomes already apparent at the macroscopic
level of the population averaged activity. At the microscopic level,
shared-input correlations are suppressed by spike-train correlations: In purely
inhibitory networks, they are canceled by negative spike-train correlations. In
excitatory-inhibitory networks, spike-train correlations are typically
positive. Here, the suppression of input correlations is not a result of the
mere existence of correlations between excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I)
neurons, but a consequence of a particular structure of correlations among the
three possible pairings (EE, EI, II).