The mass assembly and star formation histories of massive galaxies identified
at low redshift z in different cosmological hydrodynamical simulations, have
been studied through a detailed follow-up backwards in time of their
constituent mass elements (sampled by particles) of different types. Then, the
configurations they depict at progressively higher zs have been analysed.
  The analyses show that these histories share common generic patterns,
irrespective of particular circumstances. In any case, the results we have
found are different depending on the particle type. The most outstanding
differences follow. We have found that by z ~ 3.5 - 6, mass elements identified
as stellar particles at z=0 exhibit a gaseous cosmic-web-like morphology with
scales of ~ 1 physical Mpc, where the densest mass elements have already turned
into stars by z ~ 6. These settings are in fact the densest pieces of the
cosmic web, where no hot particles show up, and dynamically organized as a
hierarchy of flow convergence regions, that is, attraction basins for mass
flows. On the other hand, mass elements identified at the diffuse hot coronae
surrounding massive galaxies at z = 0, do not display a clear web-like
morphology at any z. Diffuse gas is heated when flow convergence regions go
through contractive deformations, and most of it keeps hot and with low density
along the evolution.
  To shed light on the physical foundations of the behaviour our analyses show
up, as well as on their possible observational implications, these patterns
have been confronted with some generic properties of singular flows as
described by the adhesion model. We have found that these common patterns
simulations show can be interpreted as a consequence of flow properties, that,
moreover, could explain different generic observational results on massive
galaxies or their samples. We briefly discuss some of them.[Abridged]