Accretion flows having positive specific energy are known to produce outflows
and winds which escape to a large distance. According to Two Component
Advective Flow (TCAF) model, centrifugal pressure dominated region of the flow
just outside the black hole horizon, with or without shocks, acts as the base
of this outflow. Electrons from this region are depleted due to the wind and
consequently, energy transfer rate due to inverse Comptonization of low energy
photons are affected. Specifically, it becomes easier to cool this region and
emerging spectrum is softened. Our main goal is to show spectral softening due
to mass outflow in presence of Compton cooling. To achieve this, we modify
Rankine-Hugoniot relationships at the shock front when post-shock region
suffers mass loss due to winds and energy loss due to inverse Comptonization.
We solve two-temperature equations governing an accretion flow around a black
hole which include Coulomb exchange between protons and electrons and other
major radiative processes such as bremsstrahlung and thermal Comptonization. We
then compute emitted spectrum from this post-shock flow. We also show how
location of standing shock which forms outer boundary of centrifugal barrier
changes with cooling. With an increase in disc accretion rate $(\dot{m_d})$,
cooling is enhanced and we find that the shock moves in towards the black hole.
With cooling, thermal pressure is reduced, and as a result, outflow rate is
decreased. We thus directly correlate outflow rate with spectral state of the
disc.