Geographic borders are not only essential for the effective functioning of
government, the distribution of administrative responsibilities and the
allocation of public resources, they also influence the interregional flow of
information, cross-border trade operations, the diffusion of innovation and
technology, and the spatial spread of infectious diseases. However, as growing
interactions and mobility across long distances, cultural, and political
borders continue to amplify the small world effect and effectively decrease the
relative importance of local interactions, it is difficult to assess the
location and structure of effective borders that may play the most significant
role in mobility-driven processes. The paradigm of spatially coherent
communities may no longer be a plausible one, and it is unclear what structures
emerge from the interplay of interactions and activities across spatial scales.
Here we analyse a multi-scale proxy network for human mobility that
incorporates travel across a few to a few thousand kilometres. We determine an
effective system of geographically continuous borders implicitly encoded in
multi-scale mobility patterns. We find that effective large scale boundaries
define spatially coherent subdivisions and only partially coincide with
administrative borders. We find that spatial coherence is partially lost if
only long range traffic is taken into account and show that prevalent models
for multi-scale mobility networks cannot account for the observed patterns.
These results will allow for new types of quantitative, comparative analyses of
multi-scale interaction networks in general and may provide insight into a
multitude of spatiotemporal phenomena generated by human activity.