The origin of high velocity cool gas seen in galactic winds remains unknown.
Following Wang (1995), we argue that rapid radiative cooling in initially hot
(10^7-10^8 K) thermally-driven outflows can produce fast neutral atomic and
photoionized cool gas. Outflows with hot gas mass-loading factor relative to
star formation rate of beta > 0.5 cool on scales ranging from the size of the
host to tens of kpc. We provide scalings for the cooling radius r_cool,
density, column density, emission measure, radiative efficiency, and cool gas
velocity. At r_cool, the gas produces X-ray and then UV/optical line emission
at velocities of hundreds to thousands of km/s with a total power bounded from
above by the energy injection rate 0.01 L_star if the flow is powered by
steady-state star formation with luminosity L_star. The wind is thermally and
convectively unstable at and beyond r_cool. Thermal instability can amplify
density fluctuations by a factor of ~100, potentially leading to a multi-phase
medium. Cooled winds can decelerate in the extended gravitational potential of
galaxies and may explain the prevalence of cool gas in galactic halos. We
forward a picture of winds whereby cool clouds are initially accelerated from
the host by ram pressure of the hot flow, but are rapidly shredded and
incorporated into the hot flow by the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability. This
increases the hot wind mass loading, seeding radiative and thermal instability
and cool gas rebirth. We show that if the cooled wind re-shocks as it sweeps up
the circumgalactic medium that its cooling time is short, thus depositing cool
gas far out into the halo. Finally, we show that conduction can dominate energy
transport in low-beta hot galactic winds, leading to much flatter temperature
profiles compared to the nominal expectation from adiabaticity, potentially
consistent with X-ray observations of some local starbursts. (Abridged)