Based on fluid-dynamic and many-particle (car-following) simulations of
traffic flows in (urban) networks, we study the problem of coordinating
incompatible traffic flows at intersections. Inspired by the observation of
self-organized oscillations of pedestrian flows at bottlenecks [D. Helbing and
P. Moln\'ar, Phys. Eev. E 51 (1995) 4282--4286], we propose a self-organization
approach to traffic light control. The problem can be treated as multi-agent
problem with interactions between vehicles and traffic lights. Specifically,
our approach assumes a priority-based control of traffic lights by the vehicle
flows themselves, taking into account short-sighted anticipation of vehicle
flows and platoons. The considered local interactions lead to emergent
coordination patterns such as ``green waves'' and achieve an efficient,
decentralized traffic light control. While the proposed self-control adapts
flexibly to local flow conditions and often leads to non-cyclical switching
patterns with changing service sequences of different traffic flows, an almost
periodic service may evolve under certain conditions and suggests the existence
of a spontaneous synchronization of traffic lights despite the varying delays
due to variable vehicle queues and travel times. The self-organized traffic
light control is based on an optimization and a stabilization rule, each of
which performs poorly at high utilizations of the road network, while their
proper combination reaches a superior performance. The result is a considerable
reduction not only in the average travel times, but also of their variation.
Similar control approaches could be applied to the coordination of logistic and
production processes.