The goal of this paper is to outline a scenario of emerging stochasticity in
high-dimensional highly nonlinear systems, such as genetic regulatory networks
(GRN). We focus attention on the fact that in such systems confluence of all
the factors necessary for gene expression is a comparatively rare event, and
only massive redundancy makes such events sufficiently frequent. An immediate
consequence of this rareness is burstiness in mRNA and protein copy numbers, a
well known experimentally observed effect. We introduce the concept of
stochastic cooperativity and show that this phenomenon is a natural consequence
of high dimensionality coupled with highly nonlinearity of a dynamical system.
In mathematical terms, burstiness is associated with heavy-tailed probability
distributions of stochastic processes describing the dynamics of the system.
The sequence of stochastic cooperativity events allows for transition from
continuous deterministic dynamics expressed in terms of ordinary differential
equations (ODE) to discrete stochastic dynamics expressed in terms of Langevin
and Fokker-Plank equations. We demonstrate also that high-dimensional nonlinear
systems, even in the absence of explicit mechanisms for suppressing inherent
instability, may nevertheless reside in a state of stationary pseudo-random
fluctuations which for all practical purposes may be regarded as stochastic
process. This type of stochastic behavior is an inherent property of such
systems and requires neither an external random force, nor highly specialized
conditions of bistability.