The transition from laminar to turbulent fluid motion occurring at large
Reynolds numbers is generally associated with the instability of the laminar
flow. On the other hand, since the turbulent flow characteristically appears in
the form of spatially localized structures (e.g., eddies) filling the flow
field, a tendency to occupy such a structured state of the flow cannot be ruled
out as a driving force for turbulent transition. To examine this possibility,
we propose a simple analytical model that treats the flow as a collection of
localized spatial structures, each of which consists of elementary cells in
which the behavior of the particles (atoms or molecules) is uncorrelated. This
allows us to introduce the Reynolds number, associating it with the ratio
between the total phase volume for the system and that for the elementary cell.
Using the principle of maximum entropy to calculate the most probable size
distribution of the localized structures, we show that as the Reynolds number
increases, the elementary cells group into the localized structures, which
successfully explains turbulent transition and some other general properties of
turbulent flows. We show that the basic assumptions underlying the model, i.e.
that the particles are indistinguishable and elementary volumes of phase space
exist in which the state of the particles is uncertain, are involved in the
derivation of the Navier-Stokes equation. Taking into account that the model
captures essential features of turbulent flows, this suggests that the driving
force for the turbulent transition is basically the same as in the present
model, i.e. the tendency of the system to occupy a statistically dominant state
plays a key role. The instability of the flow at high Reynolds numbers can then
be a mechanism to initiate structural rearrangement of the flow to find this
state.