This paper considers the requirements to ensure bounded mean queuing delay
and non-starvation in a slotted Aloha network operating the exponential backoff
protocol. It is well-known that the maximum possible throughput of a slotted
Aloha system with a large number of nodes is 1/e = 0.3679. Indeed, a saturation
throughput of 1/e can be achieved with an exponential backoff factor of r =
e/(e-1)=1.5820. The binary backoff factor of r = 2 is assumed in the majority
of prior work, and in many practical multiple-access networks such as the
Ethernet and WiFi. For slotted Aloha, the saturation throughput 0.3466 for r =
2 is reasonably close to the maximum of 1/e, and one could hardly raise
objection to adopting r = 2 in the system. However, this paper shows that if
mean queuing delay is to be bounded, then the sustainable throughput when r = 2
is only 0.2158, a drastic 41% drop from 1/e . Fortunately, the optimal setting
of r = 1.3757 under the bounded mean-delay requirement allows us to achieve
sustainable throughput of 0.3545, a penalty of only less than 4% relative to
1/e. A general conclusion is that the value of r may significantly affect the
queuing delay performance. Besides analyzing mean queuing delay, this paper
also delves into the phenomenon of starvation, wherein some nodes are deprived
of service for an extended period of time while other nodes hog the system.
Specifically, we propose a quantitative definition for starvation and show that
the conditions to guarantee bounded mean delay and non-starved operation are
one of the same, thus uniting these two notions. Finally, we show that when
mean delay is large and starvation occurs, the performance results obtained
from simulation experiments may not converge. A quantitative discussion of this
issue is provided in this paper.