We present a framework based on the generalized lattice-Boltzmann equation
using multiple relaxation times with forcing term for eddy capturing simulation
of wall bounded turbulent flows. Due to its flexibility in using disparate
relaxation times, the GLBE is well suited to maintaining numerical stability on
coarser grids and in obtaining improved solution fidelity of near-wall
turbulent fluctuations. The subgrid scale turbulence effects are represented by
the standard Smagorinsky eddy-viscosity model, which is modified by using the
van Driest wall-damping function for near wall effects. For simulation of a
wider class of problems, we introduce general forcing terms in the natural
moment space of the GLBE. Expressions for the strain rate tensor used in the
SGS model are derived in terms of the non-equilibrium moments of the GLBE to
include such forcing terms. Variable resolutions are introduced into this
extended GLBE framework through a conservative multiblock approach. The
approach is assessed for two canonical flow problems bounded by walls, viz.,
fully-developed turbulent channel flow at a shear or friction Reynolds number
($\mathrm{Re}$) of 183.6 based on the channel half-width and three-dimensional
(3D) shear-driven flows in a cubical cavity at a $\mathrm{Re}$ of 12,000 based
on the side length of the cavity. Comparisons of detailed computed near-wall
turbulent flow structure, given in terms of various turbulence statistics, with
available data, including those from direct numerical simulations (DNS) and
experiments showed good agreement, with marked improvement in numerical
stability characteristics.