From many datasets gathered in online social networks, well defined community
structures have been observed. A large number of users participate in these
networks and the size of the resulting graphs poses computational challenges.
There is a particular demand in identifying the nodes responsible for
information flow between communities; for example, in temporal Twitter networks
edges between communities play a key role in propagating spikes of activity
when the connectivity between communities is sparse and few edges exist between
different clusters of nodes. The new algorithm proposed here is aimed at
revealing these key connections by measuring a node's vicinity to nodes of
another community. We look at the nodes which have edges in more than one
community and the locality of nodes around them which influence the information
received and broadcasted to them. The method relies on independent random walks
of a chosen fixed number of steps, originating from nodes with edges in more
than one community. For the large networks that we have in mind, existing
measures such as betweenness centrality are difficult to compute, even with
recent methods that approximate the large number of operations required. We
therefore design an algorithm that scales up to the demand of current big data
requirements and has the ability to harness parallel processing capabilities.
The new algorithm is illustrated on synthetic data, where results can be judged
carefully, and also on a real, large scale Twitter activity data, where new
insights can be gained.