We report the results of a complete modal and nonmodal linear stability
analysis of the electrohydrodynamic flow (EHD) for the problem of
electroconvection in the strong injection region. Convective cells are formed
by Coulomb force in an insulating liquid residing between two plane electrodes
subject to unipolar injection. Besides pure electroconvection, we also consider
the case where a cross-flow is present, generated by a streamwise pressure
gradient, in the form of a laminar Poiseuille flow. The effect of charge
diffusion, often neglected in previous linear stability analyses, is included
in the present study and a transient growth analysis, rarely considered in EHD,
is carried out. In the case without cross-flow, a non-zero charge diffusion
leads to a lower linear stability threshold and thus to a more unstable low.
The transient growth, though enhanced by increasing charge diffusion, remains
small and hence cannot fully account for the discrepancy of the linear
stability threshold between theoretical and experimental results. When a
cross-flow is present, increasing the strength of the electric field in the
high-$Re$ Poiseuille flow yields a more unstable flow in both modal and
nonmodal stability analyses. Even though the energy analysis and the
input-output analysis both indicate that the energy growth directly related to
the electric field is small, the electric effect enhances the lift-up
mechanism. The symmetry of channel flow with respect to the centerline is
broken due to the additional electric field acting in the wall-normal
direction. As a result, the centers of the streamwise rolls are shifted towards
the injector electrode, and the optimal spanwise wavenumber achieving maximum
transient energy growth increases with the strength of the electric field.