The electrolyte (comprising of solute ions and solvents) flow-through the
porous media is frequently encountered in nature or in many engineering
applications, such as the electrochemical systems, manufacturing of composites,
geothermal engineering, soil pollution. In this study, we provide a new general
theory for the electrochemical flows-through porous media. We use static method
and set up two representative elementary volumes (REVs). One is the macroscopic
REV of the mixture of the porous media and the electrolyte, while the other is
the microscopic REV in the electrolyte fluid. The establishment of two REVs
enables us to investigate the details of transports of mass, heat, electric
flied, or momentum in the process of the electrochemical flows-through porous
electrode. In this work, the macroscopic governing equations are derived from
the conservation laws in the macroscopic REV to describe the electrochemical
flows-through porous media. At first, we define the porosity by the volume and
surface and divide the porous media into various categories. Then the
superficial average is transformed into intrinsic averages to derive the
interaction terms between the solid and the fluid, known as terms of
dispersion, tortuosity and interfacial transfer. The macroscopic governing
equations are derived by performing the intrinsic average on the microscopic
governing equations. After done that, the unknown terms related to the
dispersion, tortuosity and interfacial transfer are emerged in the governing
equations.