We present the results of a study of the azimuthal characteristics of
ionospheric and seismic effects of the meteorite 'Chelyabinsk', based on the
data from the network of GPS receivers, coherent decameter radar EKB SuperDARN
and network of seismic stations.
  It is shown, that 6-14 minutes after the bolide explosion, GPS network
observed the cone-shaped wavefront of TIDs that is interpreted as a ballistic
acoustic wave. The typical TIDs propagation velocity were observed
661+/-256m/s, which corresponds to the expected acoustic wave speed for 240km
height. 14 minutes after the bolide explosion, at distances of 200km we
observed the emergence and propagation of a TID with spherical wavefront, that
is interpreted as gravitational mode of internal acoustic waves. The
propagation velocity of this TID was 337+/-89m/s which corresponds to the
propagation velocity of these waves in similar situations. At EKB SuperDARN
radar, we observed TIDs in the sector of azimuthal angles close to the
perpendicular to the meteorite trajectory. The observed TID velocity (400 m/s)
and azimuthal properties correlate well with the model of ballistic wave
propagating at 120-140km altitude.
  It is shown, that the azimuthal distribution of the amplitude of vertical
seismic oscillations can be described qualitatively by the model of vertical
strike-slip rupture, propagating at 1km/s along the meteorite fall trajectory
to distance of about 40km. These parameters correspond to the direction and
velocity of propagation of the ballistic wave peak by the ground. It is shown,
that the model of ballistic wave caused by supersonic motion and burning of the
meteorite in the upper atmosphere can satisfactorily explain the various
azimuthal ionospheric effects, observed by the coherent decameter radar EKB
SuperDARN, GPS-receivers network, as well as the azimuthal characteristics of
seismic waves at large distances.