This paper proposes to address new requirements of confidentiality, integrity
and availability properties fitting to peer-to-peer domains of resources. The
enforcement of security properties in an open peer-topeer network remains an
open problem as the literature have mainly proposed contribution on
availability of resources and anonymity of users. That paper proposes a novel
architecture that eases the administration of a peer-to-peer network. It
considers a network of safe peer-to-peer clients in the sense that it is a
commune client software that is shared by all the participants to cope with the
sharing of various resources associated with different security requirements.
However, our proposal deals with possible malicious peers that attempt to
compromise the requested security properties. Despite the safety of an open
peer-to-peer network cannot be formally guaranteed, since a end user has
privileges on the target host, our solution provides several advanced security
enforcement. First, it enables to formally define the requested security
properties of the various shared resources. Second, it evaluates the trust and
the reputation of the requesting peer by sending challenges that test the
fairness of its peer-to-peer security policy. Moreover, it proposes an advanced
Mandatory Access Control that enforces the required peer-to-peer security
properties through an automatic projection of the requested properties onto
SELinux policies. Thus, the SELinux system of the requesting peer is
automatically configured with respect to the required peer-to-peer security
properties.