Network alignment aims to find regions of topological or functional
similarities between networks. In computational biology, it can be used to
transfer biological knowledge from a well-studied species to a poorly-studied
species between aligned network regions. Typically, existing network aligners
first compute similarities between nodes in different networks (via a node cost
function) and then aim to find a high-scoring alignment (node mapping between
the networks) with respect to "node conservation", typically the total node
cost function over all aligned nodes. Only after an alignment is constructed,
the existing methods evaluate its quality with respect to an alternative
measure, such as "edge conservation". Thus, we recently aimed to directly
optimize edge conservation while constructing an alignment, which improved
alignment quality. Here, we approach a novel idea of maximizing both node and
edge conservation, and we also approach this idea from a novel perspective, by
aligning optimally edges between networks first in order to improve node cost
function needed to then align well nodes between the networks. In the process,
unlike the existing measures of edge conservation that treat each conserved
edge the same, we favor conserved edges that are topologically similar over
conserved edges that are topologically dissimilar. We show that our novel
method, which we call GRaphlet Edge AlignmenT (GREAT), improves upon
state-of-the-art methods that aim to optimize node conservation only or edge
conservation only.