This paper introduces a novel type of memetic algorithm based Topology and
Weight Evolving Artificial Neural Network (TWEANN) system called DX Neural
Network (DXNN). DXNN implements a number of interesting features, amongst which
is: a simple and database friendly tuple based encoding method, a 2 phase
neuroevolutionary approach aimed at removing the need for speciation due to its
intrinsic population diversification effects, a new "Targeted Tuning Phase"
aimed at dealing with "the curse of dimensionality", and a new Random Intensity
Mutation (RIM) method that removes the need for crossover algorithms. The paper
will discuss DXNN's architecture, mutation operators, and its built in feature
selection method that allows for the evolved systems to expand and incorporate
new sensors and actuators. I then compare DXNN to other state of the art
TWEANNs on the standard double pole balancing benchmark, and demonstrate its
superior ability to evolve highly compact solutions faster than its
competitors. Then a set of oblation experiments is performed to demonstrate how
each feature of DXNN effects its performance, followed by a set of experiments
which demonstrate the platform's ability to create NN populations with
exceptionally high diversity profiles. Finally, DXNN is used to evolve
artificial robots in a set of two dimensional open-ended food gathering and
predator-prey simulations, demonstrating the system's ability to produce ever
more complex Neural Networks, and the system's applicability to the domain of
robotics, artificial life, and coevolution.