We study in this work a steady shearing laminar flow with null heat flux
(usually called "uniform shear flow") in a gas-solid suspension at low density.
The solid particles are modeled as a gas of smooth hard spheres with inelastic
collisions while the influence of the surrounding interstitial fluid on the
dynamics of grains is modeled by means of a volume drag force, in the context
of a rheological model for suspensions. The model is solved by means of three
different but complementary routes, two of them being theoretical (Grad's
moment method applied to the corresponding Boltzmann equation and an exact
solution of a kinetic model adapted to granular suspensions) and the other
being computational (Monte Carlo simulations of the Boltzmann equation). Unlike
in previous studies on granular sheared suspensions, we include in our Grad's
solution nonlinear terms in the stress tensor in the collisional moment
associated with the momentum transfer. This theoretical enhancement allows us
for the detection and evaluation of the normal stress differences in the plane
normal to the laminar flow. In addition, the exact solution of the kinetic
model gives the explicit form of the velocity moments of the velocity
distribution function. Comparison between our theoretical and numerical results
shows in general a good agreement for the non-Newtonian rheological properties,
the kurtosis (fourth velocity moment of the distribution function) and the
velocity distribution of the kinetic model for quite strong inelasticity and
not too large values of the (scaled) friction coefficient characterizing the
viscous drag force. This shows the accuracy of our analytical results that
allows us to describe in detail the flow dynamics of the granular suspension
with zero heat flux throughout the paper.