In any communication network, the maximum number of link-disjoint paths
between any pair of communicating nodes, S and T, is limited by the S-T minimum
link-cut. Multipath routing protocols have been proposed in the literature to
make use of these S-T paths in enhancing the survivability of the S-T
information flow. This is usually accomplished by using a subset of these paths
to forward redundant data units or combinations (if network coding is allowed)
from S to T. Therefore, this enhancement in survivability reduces the useful
S-T information rate. In this paper we present a new way to enhance the
survivability of the S-T information flow without compromising the maximum
achievable S-T information rate. To do this, bottleneck links (in the min-cut)
should only forward useful information, and not redundant data units. We
introduce the idea of extra source or destination connectivity with respect to
a certain S-T max-flow, and then we study two problems: namely, pre-cut
protection and post-cut protection. Although our objective in both problems is
the same, where we aim to maximize the number of protected paths, our analysis
shows that the nature of these two problems are very different, and that the
pre-cut protection problem is much harder. Specifically, we prove the hardness
of the pre-cut protection problem, formulate it as an integer linear program,
and propose a heuristic approach to solve it. Simulations show that the
performance of the heuristic is acceptable even on relatively large networks.
In the post-cut problem we show that all the data units, forwarded by the
min-cut edges not incident to T, can be post-cut-protected.