The finite element simulation of dynamic wetting phenomena, requiring the
computation of flow in a domain confined by intersecting a liquid-fluid free
surface and a liquid-solid interface, with the three-phase contact line moving
across the solid, is considered. For this class of flows, different finite
element method (FEM) implementations have been proposed in the literature and
these are seen to produce apparently contradictory results. The purpose of this
paper is to develop a robust framework for the FEM simulation of these flows
and then, by performing numerical experiments, provide guidelines for future
investigations. In the new framework, the boundary conditions on the
liquid-solid interface are implemented in a methodologically similar way to
those on the free surface so that the equations at the contact line, where the
interfaces meet, are applied without any ad-hoc alterations. The new
implementation removes the need for complex rotations of the momentum
equations, usually required to apply boundary conditions normal and tangent to
the solid surface. The developed code allows the convergence of the solution to
be studied as the spatial resolution of the computational mesh is varied over
many orders of magnitude. This makes it possible to provide practical
recommendations on the spatial resolution required by a numerical scheme for a
given set of non-dimensional similarity parameters. Furthermore, one can
examine various implementations used in the literature and evaluate their
performance. Finally, it is shown how the framework may be generalized to
account for additional physical effects, such as gradients in surface tensions.
A user-friendly step-by-step guide specifying the entire implementation and
allowing the reader to easily reproduce all presented results is provided in
the Appendix.