Time is at a premium for recurrent network dynamics, and particularly so when
they are stochastic and correlated: the quality of inference from such dynamics
fundamentally depends on how fast the neural circuit generates new samples from
its stationary distribution. Indeed, behavioral decisions can occur on fast
time scales (~100 ms), but it is unclear what neural circuit dynamics afford
sampling at such high rates.
  We analyzed a stochastic form of rate-based linear neuronal network dynamics
with synaptic weight matrix $W$, and the dependence on $W$ of the covariance of
the stationary distribution of joint firing rates. This covariance $\Sigma$ can
be actively used to represent posterior uncertainty via sampling under a
linear-Gaussian latent variable model. The key insight is that the mapping
between $W$ and $\Sigma$ is degenerate: there are infinitely many $W$'s that
lead to sampling from the same $\Sigma$ but differ greatly in the speed at
which they sample. We were able to explicitly separate these extra degrees of
freedom in a parametric form and thus study their effects on sampling speed.
  We show that previous proposals for probabilistic sampling in neural circuits
correspond to using a symmetric $W$ which violates Dale's law and results in
critically slow sampling, even for moderate stationary correlations. In
contrast, optimizing network dynamics for speed consistently yielded asymmetric
$W$'s and dynamics characterized by fast transients, such that samples of
network activity became fully decorrelated over ~10 ms. Importantly, networks
with separate excitatory/inhibitory populations proved to be particularly
efficient samplers, and were in the balanced regime. Thus, plausible neural
circuit dynamics can perform fast sampling for efficient decoding and
inference.