An image articulation manifold (IAM) is the collection of images formed when
an object is articulated in front of a camera. IAMs arise in a variety of image
processing and computer vision applications, where they provide a natural
low-dimensional embedding of the collection of high-dimensional images. To date
IAMs have been studied as embedded submanifolds of Euclidean spaces.
Unfortunately, their promise has not been realized in practice, because real
world imagery typically contains sharp edges that render an IAM
non-differentiable and hence non-isometric to the low-dimensional parameter
space under the Euclidean metric. As a result, the standard tools from
differential geometry, in particular using linear tangent spaces to transport
along the IAM, have limited utility. In this paper, we explore a nonlinear
transport operator for IAMs based on the optical flow between images and
develop new analytical tools reminiscent of those from differential geometry
using the idea of optical flow manifolds (OFMs). We define a new metric for
IAMs that satisfies certain local isometry conditions, and we show how to use
this metric to develop a new tools such as flow fields on IAMs, parallel flow
fields, parallel transport, as well as a intuitive notion of curvature. The
space of optical flow fields along a path of constant curvature has a natural
multi-scale structure via a monoid structure on the space of all flow fields
along a path. We also develop lower bounds on approximation errors while
approximating non-parallel flow fields by parallel flow fields.