The dynamics of horizontal plasma flows during the first hours of the
emergence of active region magnetic flux in the solar photosphere have been
analyzed using SOHO/MDI data. Four active regions emerging near the solar limb
have been considered. It has been found that extended regions of Doppler
velocities with different signs are formed in the first hours of the magnetic
flux emergence in the horizontal velocity field. The flows observed are
directly connected with the emerging magnetic flux; they form at the beginning
of the emergence of active regions and are present for a few hours. The Doppler
velocities of flows observed increase gradually and reach their peak values
4-12 hours after the start of the magnetic flux emergence. The peak values of
the mean (inside the +/-500 m/s isolines) and maximum Doppler velocities are
800-970 m/s and 1410-1700 m/s, respectively. The Doppler velocities observed
substantially exceed the separation velocities of the photospheric magnetic
flux outer boundaries. The asymmetry was detected between velocity structures
of leading and following polarities. Doppler velocity structures located in a
region of leading magnetic polarity are more powerful and exist longer than
those in regions of following polarity. The Doppler velocity asymmetry between
the velocity structures of opposite sign reaches its peak values soon after the
emergence begins and then gradually drops within 7-12 hours. The peak values of
asymmetry for the mean and maximal Doppler velocities reach 240-460 m/s and
710-940 m/s, respectively. An interpretation of the observable flow of
photospheric plasma is given.