It is shown that the famous paradox of continuous power drain from the source
at the input of an otherwise lossless infinite transmission line is
successfully resolved when one takes into account both incident and reflected
waves in the circuit. The solution of the paradox lies in the realization that
while in an open-circuit finite transmission line/ladder network, there is a
reflected wave, there may be no such thing in the infinite case. Actually in a
lossless finite line, the source does keep on supplying power as an incident
wave (even when there are no resistive elements which could consume power as
Ohmic losses), but gets it back equally in terms of the reflected wave.
Therefore there is no net power loss from the source which is consistent with
the circuit comprising only reactive elements presenting zero resistance. It is
demonstrated that even a simple, driven LC circuit can be analyzed as an
open-circuit 1-block ladder network and from the superposition of incident and
reflected waves the input impedance of the LC circuit calculated for all
driving frequencies. However in the case of an infinite ladder network or
infinite transmission line, assumed to be ideal with no discontinuities
enroute, there is no termination to start a reflected wave, and the source
while continuously supplying power in the forward direction, does not retrieve
it from a reflected wave. Thus there is an apparent net power loss, which
ultimately appears as the stored electromagnetic energy in the reactive
elements (capacitances and inductances), which initially had no such energy
stored within, further down the line as the incident wave travels forward. It
is also shown that radiation plays absolutely no role in resolving this
paradox.