We study the complexity of computing equilibria in two classes of network
games based on flows - fractional BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) games and
fractional BBC (Bounded Budget Connection) games. BGP is the glue that holds
the Internet together and hence its stability, i.e. the equilibria of
fractional BGP games (Haxell, Wilfong), is a matter of practical importance.
BBC games (Laoutaris et al) follow in the tradition of the large body of work
on network formation games and capture a variety of applications ranging from
social networks and overlay networks to peer-to-peer networks.
  The central result of this paper is that there are no fully polynomial-time
approximation schemes (unless PPAD is in FP) for computing equilibria in both
fractional BGP games and fractional BBC games. We obtain this result by proving
the hardness for a new and surprisingly simple game, the fractional preference
game, which is reducible to both fractional BGP and BBC games.
  We define a new flow-based notion of equilibrium for matrix games --
personalized equilibria -- generalizing both fractional BBC and fractional BGP
games. We prove not just the existence, but the existence of rational
personalized equilibria for all matrix games, which implies the existence of
rational equilibria for fractional BGP and BBC games. In particular, this
provides an alternative proof and strengthening of the main result in [Haxell,
Wilfong]. For k-player matrix games, where k = 2, we provide a combinatorial
characterization leading to a polynomial-time algorithm for computing all
personalized equilibria. For k >= 5, we prove that personalized equilibria are
PPAD-hard to approximate in fully polynomial time. We believe that the concept
of personalized equilibria has potential for real-world significance.