In a multi-user wireless network equipped with multiple relay nodes, some
relays are more intelligent than other relay nodes. The intelligent relays are
able to gather channel state information, perform linear processing and forward
signals whereas the dumb relays is only able to serve as amplifiers. As the
dumb relays are oblivious to the source and destination nodes, the wireless
network can be modeled as a relay network with *smart instantaneous relay*
only: the signals of source-destination arrive at the same time as
source-relay-destination. Recently, instantaneous relaying is shown to improve
the degrees-of-freedom of the network as compared to classical cut-set bound.
In this paper, we study an achievable rate region and its boundary of the
instantaneous interference relay channel in the scenario of (a) uninformed
non-cooperative source-destination nodes (source and destination nodes are not
aware of the existence of the relay and are non-cooperative) and (b) informed
and cooperative source-destination nodes. Further, we examine the performance
of interference neutralization: a relay strategy which is able to cancel
interference signals at each destination node in the air. We observe that
interference neutralization, although promise to achieve desired
degrees-of-freedom, may not be feasible if relay has limited power. Simulation
results show that the optimal relay strategies improve the achievable rate
region and provide better user-fairness in both uninformed non-cooperative and
informed cooperative scenarios.