Discrete-optimal model-reduction techniques such as the Gauss--Newton with
Approximated Tensors (GNAT) method have shown promise, as they have generated
stable, accurate solutions for large-scale turbulent, compressible flow
problems where standard Galerkin techniques have failed. However, there has
been limited comparative analysis of the two approaches. This is due in part to
difficulties arising from the fact that Galerkin techniques perform projection
at the time-continuous level, while discrete-optimal techniques do so at the
time-discrete level.
  This work provides a detailed theoretical and experimental comparison of the
two techniques for two common classes of time integrators: linear multistep
schemes and Runge--Kutta schemes. We present a number of new findings,
including conditions under which the discrete-optimal ROM has a time-continuous
representation, conditions under which the two techniques are equivalent, and
time-discrete error bounds for the two approaches. Perhaps most surprisingly,
we demonstrate both theoretically and experimentally that decreasing the time
step does not necessarily decrease the error for the discrete-optimal ROM;
instead, the time step should be `matched' to the spectral content of the
reduced basis. In numerical experiments carried out on a turbulent
compressible-flow problem with over one million unknowns, we show that
increasing the time step to an intermediate value decreases both the error and
the simulation time of the discrete-optimal reduced-order model by an order of
magnitude.