In this paper, we explore the relationship between the topological
characteristics of a complex network and its robustness to sustained targeted
attacks. Using synthesised scale-free, small-world and random networks, we look
at a number of network measures, including assortativity, modularity, average
path length, clustering coefficient, rich club profiles and scale-free exponent
(where applicable) of a network, and how each of these influence the robustness
of a network under targeted attacks. We use an established robustness
coefficient to measure topological robustness, and consider sustained targeted
attacks by order of node degree. With respect to scale-free networks, we show
that assortativity, modularity and average path length have a positive
correlation with network robustness, whereas clustering coefficient has a
negative correlation. We did not find any correlation between scale-free
exponent and robustness, or rich-club profiles and robustness. The robustness
of small-world networks on the other hand, show substantial positive
correlations with assortativity, modularity, clustering coefficient and average
path length. In comparison, the robustness of Erdos-Renyi random networks did
not have any significant correlation with any of the network properties
considered. A significant observation is that high clustering decreases
topological robustness in scale-free networks, yet it increases topological
robustness in small-world networks. Our results highlight the importance of
topological characteristics in influencing network robustness, and illustrate
design strategies network designers can use to increase the robustness of
scale-free and small-world networks under sustained targeted attacks.