Meridional circulation in stellar convection zones is not generally well
observed, but may be critical for MHD dynamos. Coriolis forces from
differential rotation (DR) play a large role in determining what the meridional
circulation is. Here we consider whether a stellar DR that is constant on
cylinders concentric with the rotation axis can drive a meridional
circulation.Conventional wisdom says that it can not. Using two related forms
of governing equations that respectively estimate the longitudinal components
of the curl of meridional mass flux and the vorticity, we show that such DR
will drive a meridional flow. This is because to satisfy anelastic mass
conservation, non-spherically symmetric pressure contours must be present for
all DRs, not just ones that depart from constancy on cylinders concentric with
the rotation axis. Therefore the fluid is always baroclinic if DR is present,
because, in anelastic systems, the perturbation pressure must satisfy a Poisson
type equation, as well as an equation of state and a thermodynamic equation. We
support our qualitative reasoning with numerical examples, and show that
meridional circulation is sensitive to the magnitude and form of departures
from rotation constant on cylinders. The effect should be present in 3D global
anelastic convection simulations, particularly those for which the DR driven by
global convection is nearly cylindrical in profile. For solar-like DR, Coriolis
forces generally drive a two-celled circulation in each hemisphere, with a
second, reversed flow at high latitudes. For solar like turbulent viscosities,
the meridional circulation produced by Coriolis forces is much larger than
observed on the Sun. Therefore there must be at least one additional force,
probably a buoyancy force, which opposes the meridional flow to bring its
amplitude down to observed values.