This paper addresses analytical aspects of deterministic, continuous-time
dynamical systems defined on networks. The goal is to model and analyze certain
phenomena which must be framed beyond the context of networked dynamical
systems, understood as a set of interdependent dynamical systems defined on the
nodes of a (possibly evolving) graph. In order to advocate for a more flexible
approach to the study of network dynamics, we tackle some qualitative problems
which do not fall in this working scenario. First, we address a stability
problem on a network of heterogeneous agents, some of which are of dynamic
nature while others just impose restrictions on the system behavior. Our second
context assumes that the network is clustered, and we address a two-level
stability problem involving the dynamics of both individual agents and groups.
The aforementioned problems exhibit lines of non-isolated equilibria, and the
analysis implicitly assumes a positiveness condition on the edge weights; the
removal of this restriction complicates matters, and our third problem concerns
a graph-theoretic characterization of the equilibrium set in the dynamics of
certain networks with positive and negative weights, the results applying in
particular to signed graphs. Our approach combines graph theory and dynamical
systems theory, but also uses specific tools coming from linear algebra,
including e.g. Gersgorin discs or Maxwell-type determinantal expansions. The
results are of application in social, economic, and flow networks, among
others, and are also aimed at motivating further research.