We revisit here the stability of a deformable interface that separates a
fully-developed turbulent gas flow from a thin layer of laminar liquid. Unlike
previous work, the turbulent base state velocity profile proposed here requires
only a specification of a flowrate or pressure drop, and no a posteriori choice
of parameters. Moreover, the base state contains sufficient detail such that it
allows for instability due to a viscosity-contrast mechanism (which turns out
to be dominant) as well as instability due to a critical-layer-type mechanism,
and it is validated against the experimental and numerical data available in
the literature. Furthermore, the effect of perturbations in the turbulent
stress distributions is investigated, and demonstrated, for the first time, to
be small for cases wherein the liquid layer is thin. The detailed modelling of
the liquid layer elicits two unstable modes, and mode competition can occur,
although in most cases the instability is due to the viscosity-contrast
mechanism. In particular, there is the possibility that surface roughness can
reduce the growth rate of the interfacial mode, and promote a liquid-layer
instability to the status of most dangerous mode. Our base-state model
facilitates a new definition of `slow' and `fast' waves. We use our linear
stability analysis to determine the factors that affect the wave speed and
demonstrate that the waves are `slow' according to the definition proposed
here. Finally, we compare our results with experimental data, and good
agreement is obtained.