We present a hydro-geomechanical model for subsurface methane hydrate
systems. Our model considers kinetic hydrate phase change and non-isothermal,
multi-phase, multi-component flow in elastically deforming soils. The model
accounts for the effects of hydrate phase change and pore pressure changes on
the mechanical properties of the soil, and also for the effect of soil
deformation on the fluid-solid interaction properties relevant to reaction and
transport processes (e.g., permeability, capillary pressure, reaction surface
area). We discuss a 'cause-effect' based decoupling strategy for the model and
present our numerical discretization and solution scheme. We then identify the
important model components and couplings which are most vital for a
hydro-geomechanical hydrate simulator, namely, 1) dissociation kinetics, 2)
hydrate phase change coupled with non-isothermal two phase two component flow,
3) two phase flow coupled with linear elasticity (poroelasticity coupling), and
finally 4) hydrate phase change coupled with poroelasticity
(kinetics-poroelasticity coupling) and present numerical examples where, for
each example, one of the aforementioned model components/couplings is isolated.
A special emphasis is laid on the kinetics-poroelasticity coupling. We also
present a more complex 3D example based on a subsurface hydrate reservoir which
is destabilized through depressurization using a low pressure gas well. In this
example, we simulate the melting of hydrate, methane gas generation, and the
resulting ground subsidence and stress build-up in the vicinity of the well.