The calibration of a PointQ arterial microsimulation model is formulated as a
quadratic programming problem (QP) whose decision variables are link flows,
demands at entry links, and turn movements at intersections, subject to linear
constraints imposed by flow conservation identities and field measurements of a
subset of link flows (counts), demands and turn ratios. The quadratic objective
function is the deviation of the decision variables from their measured values.
The solution to the QP gives estimates of all unmeasured variables and thus
yields a fully specified simulation model. Runs of this simulation model can
then be compared with other field measurements, such as travel times along
routes, to judge the reliability of the calibrated model. A section of the
Huntington-Colorado arterial near I-210 in Los Angeles comprising 73 links and
16 intersections is used to illustrate the procedure. Two experiments are
conducted with the calibrated model to determine the maximum traffic that can
be diverted from the I-210 freeway to the arterial network, with and without
permitting changes in the timing plans. The maximum diversion in both cases is
obtained by solving a linear programming problem. A third experiment compares
the delay and travel time using the existing fixed time control and a max
pressure control. The fourth experiment compares two PointQ models: in the
first model the freeway traffic follows a pre-specified route while the
background traffic moves according to turn ratios, and in the second model turn
ratios are modified in a single commodity model to match the link flows. The
substantial modification of the turn ratios needed suggests that the use of a
single-commodity model as frequently done in CTM models can be misleading...