Many complex systems present an intrinsic bipartite nature and are often
described and modeled in terms of networks [1-5]. Examples include movies and
actors [1, 2, 4], contributors and scientific papers [6-9], email accounts and
emails [10], plants and animals that pollinate them [11, 12]. Bipartite
networks are often very heterogeneous in the number of relationships that the
elements of one set establish with the elements of the other set. When one
constructs a projected network with nodes from only one set, the system
heterogeneity makes it very difficult to identify preferential links between
the elements. Here we introduce an unsupervised method to statistically
validate each link of the projected network against a null hypothesis taking
into account the heterogeneity of the system. We apply our method to three
different systems, namely the set of clusters of orthologous genes (COG) in
completely sequenced genomes [13, 14], a set of daily returns of 500 US
financial stocks, and the set of world movies of the IMDb database [15]. In all
these systems, both different in size and level of heterogeneity, we find that
our method is able to detect network structures which are informative about the
system and are not simply expression of its heterogeneity. Specifically, our
method (i) identifies the preferential relationships between the elements, (ii)
naturally highlights the clustered structure of investigated systems, and (iii)
allows to classify links according to the type of statistically validated
relationships between the connected nodes.