Flows of synchrotron-emitting material can be found in several astrophysical
contexts, including extragalactic jets and pulsar-wind nebulae (PWNe). For
X-ray synchrotron emission, flow times are often longer than electron radiative
lifetimes, so the effective source size at a given X-ray energy is the distance
electrons radiating at that energy can convect before they burn off. Since
synchrotron losses vary strongly with electron energy, the source size drops
with increasing X-ray energy, resulting in a steepening of the synchrotron
spectrum. For homogeneous sources, this burnoff produces the well-known result
of a steepening by 0.5 in the source's integrated spectral index. However, for
inhomogeneous sources, different amounts of steepening are possible. I exhibit
a simple phenomenological picture of an outflow of relativistic electrons with
bulk nonrelativistic flow speed, with transverse flow-tube radius,
magnetic-field strength, matter density, and flow velocity all varying as
different powers of distance from the injection point. For such a picture, I
calculate the value of the spectral index above the break as a function of the
power-law indices, and show the possible range of steepenings. I show that
these simple calculations are confirmed by full integrations of source
luminosity, which also include the spectral "bump" below the break from the
accumulation of electrons formerly at higher energies. In many cases,
extragalactic jets show X-ray synchrotron emission steeper by more than 0.5
than the radio emission; the same phenomenon is exhibited by many pulsar-wind
nebulae. It is possible that source inhomogeneities are responsible in at least
some cases, so that the amount of spectral steepening becomes a diagnostic for
source dynamical or geometrical properties.