Throughput improvement of the Wireless LANs has been a constant area of
research. Most of the work in this area, focuses on designing throughput
optimal schemes for fully connected networks (no hidden nodes). But, we
demonstrate that the proposed schemes, though perform optimally in fully
connected network, achieve significantly lesser throughput even than that of
standard IEEE 802.11 in a network with hidden nodes. This motivates the need
for designing schemes that provide near optimal performance even when hidden
nodes are present. The primary reason for the failure of existing protocols in
the presence of hidden nodes is that these protocols are based on the model
developed by Bianchi. However this model does not hold when hidden nodes exist.
Moreover, analyzing networks with hidden nodes is still an open problem. Thus,
designing throughput optimal schemes in networks with hidden nodes is
particularly challenging. The novelty of our approach is that it is not based
on any underlying mathematical model, rather it directly tunes the control
variables so as to maximize the throughput. We demonstrate that this model
independent approach achieves maximum throughput in networks with hidden
terminals as well. Apart from this major contribution, we present stochastic
approximation based algorithms for achieving weighted fairness in a connected
networks. We also present a throughput optimal exponential backoff based random
access algorithm. We demonstrate that the exponential backoff based scheme may
outperform an optimal p-persistent scheme in networks with hidden terminals.
This demonstrates the merit of exponential backoff based random access schemes
which was deemed unnecessary by results shown by Bianchi.