Communication networks, such as core optical networks, heavily depend on
their physical infrastructure, and hence they are vulnerable to man-made
disasters, such as Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) or Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMD) attacks, as well as to natural disasters. Large-scale disasters may cause
huge data loss and connectivity disruption in these networks. As our dependence
on network services increases, the need for novel survivability methods to
mitigate the effects of disasters on communication networks becomes a major
concern. Software-Defined Networking (SDN), by centralizing control logic and
separating it from physical equipment, facilitates network programmability and
opens up new ways to design disaster-resilient networks. On the other hand, to
fully exploit the potential of SDN, along with data-plane survivability, we
also need to design the control plane to be resilient enough to survive network
failures caused by disasters. Several distributed SDN controller architectures
have been proposed to mitigate the risks of overload and failure, but they are
optimized for limited faults without addressing the extent of large-scale
disaster failures. For disaster resiliency of the control plane, we propose to
design it as a virtual network, which can be solved using Virtual Network
Mapping techniques. We select appropriate mapping of the controllers over the
physical network such that the connectivity among the controllers
(controller-to-controller) and between the switches to the controllers
(switch-to-controllers) is not compromised by physical infrastructure failures
caused by disasters. We formally model this disaster-aware control-plane design
and mapping problem, and demonstrate a significant reduction in the disruption
of controller-to-controller and switch-to-controller communication channels
using our approach.