The amorphous conducting carbon films have been prepared at three different
preparation temperatures with different boron-doping levels. The structural and
transport properties of the same have been studied. X-ray diffraction
measurements show that the 'd' value of the carbon depends both on atomic
percentage of B in the carbon network and also on the preparation temperature.
Doping of boron increases the structural graphitic ordering of the films
prepared at lower temperatures. On the contrary for the films prepared at
higher temperatures the ordering deteriorates as the boron content increases.
The d.c electrical transport measurements on these amorphous conducting carbon
films show, doping induced metal-insulator transition via critical regime, in
the temperature interval of 1.3 K to 300K. Also the films in the insulating
regime show a crossover from Mott to ES VRH for T < 55K. Additional support to
this transition is evident from negative magnetoresistance in VRH regime when
the sample is deep inside the insulating side of MI transition. The calculated
value of density of states at Fermi level shows a gradual change with
corresponding variation in boron doping level, indicating a change in the
number of conducting pi electrons due to substitutional doping of boron in the
carbon network. However for the films exhibiting critical behaviour, the
magnetic field dependence of magnetoresistance was not as predicted by the
available theoretical models. Various calculated parameters like localization
length, density of states at the Fermi level and coulomb gap for insulating
samples were calculated from the experimental data.