In this paper, a joint spectrum sensing and accessing optimization framework
for a multiuser cognitive network is proposed to significantly improve spectrum
efficiency. For such a cognitive network, there are two important and limited
resources that should be distributed in a comprehensive manner, namely feedback
bits and time duration. First, regarding the feedback bits, there are two
components: sensing component (used to convey various users' sensing results)
and accessing component (used to feedback channel state information). A large
sensing component can support more users to perform cooperative sensing, which
results in high sensing precision. However, a large accessing component is
preferred as well, as it has a direct impact on the performance in the
multiuser cognitive network when multi-antenna technique, such as zero-forcing
beamforming (ZFBF), is utilized. Second, the tradeoff of sensing and accessing
duration in a transmission interval needs to be determined, so that the sum
transmission rate is optimized while satisfying the interference constraint. In
addition, the above two resources are interrelated and inversive under some
conditions. Specifically, sensing time can be saved by utilizing more sensing
feedback bits for a given performance objective. Hence, the resources should be
allocation in a jointly manner. Based on the joint optimization framework and
the intrinsic relationship between the two resources, we propose two joint
resource allocation schemes by maximizing the average sum transmission rate in
a multiuser multi-antenna cognitive network. Simulation results show that, by
adopting the joint resource allocation schemes, obvious performance gain can be
obtained over the traditional fixed strategies.