We consider extensions and improvements on our previous work on dynamic
adaptive video streaming in a multi-cell multiuser ``small cell'' wireless
network. Previously, we treated the case of single-antenna base stations and,
starting from a network utility maximization (NUM) formulation, we devised a
``push'' scheduling policy, where users place requests to sequential video
chunks to possibly different base stations with adaptive video quality, and
base stations schedule their downlink transmissions in order to stabilize their
transmission queues. In this paper we consider a ``pull'' strategy, where every
user maintains a request queue, such that users keep track of the video chunks
that are effectively delivered. The pull scheme allows to download the chunks
in the playback order without skipping or missing them. In addition, motivated
by the recent/forthcoming progress in small cell networks (e.g., in wave-2 of
the recent IEEE 802.11ac standard), we extend our dynamic streaming approach to
the case of base stations capable of multiuser MIMO downlink, i.e., serving
multiple users on the same time-frequency slot by spatial multiplexing. By
exploiting the ``channel hardening'' effect of high dimensional MIMO channels,
we devise a low complexity user selection scheme to solve the underlying
max-weighted rate scheduling, which can be easily implemented and runs
independently at each base station. Through simulations, we show MIMO gains in
terms of video streaming QoE metrics like the pre-buffering and re-buffering
times.