We study scenarios in which the goal is to ensure that some information will
propagate through a large network of nodes. In these scenarios all nodes that
are aware of the information compete for the same prize, and thus have an
incentive not to propagate information. One example for such a scenario is the
2009 DARPA Network Challenge (finding red balloons). We give special attention
to a second domain, Bitcoin, a decentralized electronic currency system.
  Bitcoin, which has been getting a large amount of public attention over the
last year, represents a radical new approach to monetary systems which has
appeared in policy discussions and in the popular press. Its cryptographic
fundamentals have largely held up even as its usage has become increasingly
widespread. We find, however, that it exhibits a fundamental problem of a
different nature, based on how its incentives are structured. We propose a
modification to the protocol that can fix this problem.
  Bitcoin relies on a peer-to-peer network to track transactions that are
performed with the currency. For this purpose, every transaction a node learns
about should be transmitted to its neighbors in the network. As the protocol is
currently defined and implemented, it does not provide an incentive for nodes
to broadcast transactions they are aware of. In fact, it provides a strong
incentive not to do so. Our solution is to augment the protocol with a scheme
that rewards information propagation. We show that our proposed scheme succeeds
in setting the correct incentives, that it is Sybil-proof, and that it requires
only a small payment overhead, all this is achieved with iterated elimination
of dominated strategies. We provide lower bounds on the overhead that is
required to implement schemes with the stronger solution concept of Dominant
Strategies, indicating that such schemes might be impractical.