Fashion plays such a crucial rule in the evolution of culture and society
that it is regarded as a second nature to the human being. Also, its impact on
economy is quite nontrivial. On what is fashionable, interestingly, there are
two viewpoints that are both extremely widespread but almost opposite:
conformists think that what is popular is fashionable, while rebels believe
that being different is the essence. Fashion color is fashionable in the first
sense, and Lady Gaga in the second. We investigate a model where the population
consists of the afore-mentioned two groups of people that are located on social
networks (a spatial cellular automata network and small-world networks). This
model captures two fundamental kinds of social interactions (coordination and
anti-coordination) simultaneously, and also has its own interest to game
theory: it is a hybrid model of pure competition and pure cooperation. This is
true because when a conformist meets a rebel, they play the zero sum matching
pennies game, which is pure competition. When two conformists (rebels) meet,
they play the (anti-) coordination game, which is pure cooperation. Simulation
shows that simple social interactions greatly promote cooperation: in most
cases people can reach an extraordinarily high level of cooperation, through a
selfish, myopic, naive, and local interacting dynamic (the best response
dynamic). We find that degree of synchronization also plays a critical role,
but mostly on the negative side. Four indices, namely cooperation degree,
average satisfaction degree, equilibrium ratio and complete ratio, are defined
and applied to measure people's cooperation levels from various angles. Phase
transition, as well as emergence of many interesting geographic patterns in the
cellular automata network, is also observed.