Almost all hydrodynamic accretion disk models parametrize viscosity with the
dimensionless parameter alpha. There is no detailed model for alpha, so it is
usually taken to be a constant. However, global simulations of
magnetohydrodynamic disks find that alpha varies with distance from the central
object. Also, Newtonian simulations tend to find smaller alpha's than general
relativistic simulations. We seek a one-dimensional model for alpha that can
reproduce these two observations. We are guided by data from six general
relativistic magnetohydrodynamic accretion disk simulations. The variation of
alpha in the inner, laminar regions of the flow results from stretching of mean
magnetic field lines by the flow. The variation of alpha in the outer,
turbulent regions results from the dependence of the magnetorotational
instability on the dimensionless shear rate. We give a one-dimensional
prescription for alpha(r) that captures these two effects and reproduces the
radial variation of alpha observed in the simulations. For thin disks, the
prescription simplifies to the formula alpha(r)=0.025[q(r)/1.5]^6, where the
shear parameter, q(r), is an analytical function of radius in the Kerr metric.
The coefficient and exponent are inferred from our simulations and will change
as better simulation data becomes available. We conclude that the
alpha-viscosity prescription can be extended to the radially varying alpha's
observed in simulations. It is possible that Newtonian simulations find smaller
alpha's than general relativistic simulations because the shear parameter is
lower in Newtonian flows.