Numerical schemes used for the integration of complex flow simulations should
provide accurate solutions for the long time integrations these flows require.
To this end, the performance of various high-order accurate numerical schemes
is investigated for direct numerical simulations (DNS) of homogeneous isotropic
two-dimensional decaying turbulent flows. The numerical accuracy of compact
difference, explicit central difference, Arakawa, and
dispersion-relation-preserving schemes are analyzed and compared with the
Fourier-Galerkin pseudospectral scheme. In addition, several explicit
Runge-Kutta schemes for time integration are investigated. We demonstrate that
the centered schemes suffer from spurious Nyquist signals that are generated
almost instantaneously and propagate into much of the field when the numerical
resolution is insufficient. We further show that the order of the scheme
becomes increasingly important for increasing cell Reynolds number.
Surprisingly, the sixth-order schemes are found to be in perfect agreement with
the pseudospectral method. Considerable reduction in computational time
compared to the pseudospectral method is also reported in favor of the finite
difference schemes. Among the fourth-order schemes, the compact scheme provides
better accuracy than the others for fully resolved computations. The
fourth-order Arakawa scheme provides more accurate results for under-resolved
computations, however, due to its conservation properties. Our results show
that, contrary to conventional wisdom, difference methods demonstrate superior
performance in terms of accuracy and efficiency for fully resolved DNS
computations of the complex flows considered here. For under-resolved
simulations, however, the choice of difference method should be made with care.