We consider a two-hop wireless network where a transmitter communicates with
a receiver via $M$ relays with an amplify-and-forward (AF) protocol. Recent
works have shown that sophisticated linear processing such as beamforming and
distributed space-time coding (DSTC) at relays enables to improve the AF
performance. However, the relative utility of these strategies depend on the
available channel state information at transmitter (CSIT), which in turn
depends on system parameters such as the speed of the underlying fading channel
and that of training and feedback procedures. Moreover, it is of practical
interest to have a single transmit scheme that handles different CSIT
scenarios. This motivates us to consider a unified approach based on DSTC that
potentially provides diversity gain with statistical CSIT and exploits some
additional side information if available. Under individual power constraints at
the relays, we optimize the amplifier power allocation such that pairwise error
probability conditioned on the available CSIT is minimized. Under perfect CSIT
we propose an on-off gradient algorithm that efficiently finds a set of relays
to switch on. Under partial and statistical CSIT, we propose a simple
waterfilling algorithm that yields a non-trivial solution between maximum power
allocation and a generalized STC that equalizes the averaged amplified noise
for all relays. Moreover, we derive closed-form solutions for M=2 and in
certain asymptotic regimes that enable an easy interpretation of the proposed
algorithms. It is found that an appropriate amplifier power allocation is
mandatory for DSTC to offer sufficient diversity and power gain in a general
network topology.