In cognitive radio (CR) networks, there are scenarios where the secondary
(lower priority) users intend to communicate with each other by
opportunistically utilizing the transmit spectrum originally allocated to the
existing primary (higher priority) users. For such a scenario, a secondary user
usually has to trade off between two conflicting goals at the same time: one is
to maximize its own transmit throughput; and the other is to minimize the
amount of interference it produces at each primary receiver. In this paper, we
study this fundamental tradeoff from an information-theoretic perspective by
characterizing the secondary user's channel capacity under both its own
transmit-power constraint as well as a set of interference-power constraints
each imposed at one of the primary receivers. In particular, this paper
exploits multi-antennas at the secondary transmitter to effectively balance
between spatial multiplexing for the secondary transmission and interference
avoidance at the primary receivers. Convex optimization techniques are used to
design algorithms for the optimal secondary transmit spatial spectrum that
achieves the capacity of the secondary transmission. Suboptimal solutions for
ease of implementation are also presented and their performances are compared
with the optimal solution. Furthermore, algorithms developed for the
single-channel transmission are also extended to the case of multi-channel
transmission whereby the secondary user is able to achieve opportunistic
spectrum sharing via transmit adaptations not only in space, but in time and
frequency domains as well.