We study the existence and uniqueness of smooth mean curvature flow, in
arbitrary dimension and co-dimension, emanating from so called $k$-dimensional
$(\varepsilon,R)$ Reifenberg flat sets in $\mathbb{R}^n$. Our results
generalize the ones from a previous paper by the contributor, in which the
co-dimension one case (i.e. $k=n-1$) was studied. For $\varepsilon$ fixed, this
class is general enough to include (i) all $C^2$ sub-manifolds (ii) all
Lipschitz sub-manifolds with Lipschitz constant less than $\varepsilon$ (iii)
some sets with Hausdorff dimension larger than $k$. The Reifenberg condition,
roughly speaking, says that the set has a weak metric notion of a
$k$-dimensional tangent plane at every point and scale, but those tangents are
allowed to tilt as the scales vary. We show that if the Reifenberg parameter
$\varepsilon$ is small enough, the (arbitrary co-dimensional) level set flow
(in the sense of Ambrosio-Soner ) is non fattening, smooth and attains the
initial value in the Hausdorff sense. In particular, our result generalizes a
result of Wang and, in fact, all known existence and uniqueness results for
smooth mean curvature flow in arbitrary co-dimension. The largest deviation
from the proof of the co-dimension case comes in the proof of uniqueness (i.e.
non-fattening), where one is forced to work with the viscosity notion of the
high co-dimensional level set flow, rather than Ilmanen's more geometric
definition. This study leads to a general (short time) smooth uniqueness
result, generalizing the one for evolution of smooth sub-manifolds, which may
be of independent interest, even in co-dimension one.