The calculus of variations is employed to find steady divergence-free
velocity fields that maximize transport of a tracer between two parallel walls
held at fixed concentration for one of two constraints on flow strength: a
fixed value of the kinetic energy or a fixed value of the enstrophy. The
optimizing flows consist of an array of (convection) cells of a particular
aspect ratio Gamma. We solve the nonlinear Euler-Lagrange equations
analytically for weak flows and numerically (and via matched asymptotic
analysis in the fixed energy case) for strong flows. We report the results in
terms of the Nusselt number Nu, a dimensionless measure of the tracer
transport, as a function of the Peclet number Pe, a dimensionless measure of
the energy or enstrophy of the flow. For both constraints the maximum transport
Nu_{MAX}(Pe) is realized in cells of decreasing aspect ratio Gamma_{opt}(Pe) as
Pe increases. For the fixed energy problem, Nu_{MAX} \sim Pe and Gamma_{opt}
\sim Pe^{-1/2}, while for the fixed enstrophy scenario, Nu_{MAX} \sim
Pe^{10/17} and Gamma_{opt} \sim Pe^{-0.36}. We also interpret our results in
the context of certain buoyancy-driven Rayleigh-Benard convection problems that
satisfy one of the two intensity constraints, enabling us to investigate how
the transport scalings compare with upper bounds on Nu expressed as a function
of the Rayleigh number \Ra. For steady convection in porous media,
corresponding to the fixed energy problem, we find Nu_{MAX} \sim \Ra and
Gamma_{opt} \sim Ra^{-1/2}$, while for steady convection in a pure fluid layer
between free-slip isothermal walls, corresponding to fixed enstrophy transport,
Nu_{MAX} \sim Ra^{5/12} and Gamma_{opt} \sim Ra^{-1/4}.