In this thesis, we consider the knot energy "integral Menger curvature" which
is the triple integral over the inverse of the classic circumradius of three
distinct points on the given knot to the power $p\in [2,\infty)$. We prove the
existence of the first variation for a subset of a certain fractional Sobolev
space if $p>3$ and for a subset of a certain H\"older space otherwise. We also
discuss how fractional Sobolev and H\"older spaces can be generalised for
$2\pi$-periodic, closed curves. Since this energy is not invariant under
scaling, we additionally consider a rescaled version of the energy, where we
take the energy to the power one over $p$ and multiply by the length of the
curve to a certain power. We prove that a circle is at least a stationary point
of the rescaled energy. Furthermore, we show that in general a functional with
a scaling behaviour like $E(r\gamma)=r^\alpha E(\gamma)$, $\alpha\in\mathbb{R}$
cannot have stationary points unless $\alpha=0$. Consequently "integral Menger
curvature" for $p\neq 3$ can be used as a subsidiary condition for a
Lagrange-multiplier rule.
  We consider a numerical gradient flow for the rescaled energy. For this
purpose we use trigonometric polynomials to approximate the knots and the
trapezoidal rule for numerical integration, which is very efficient in this
case. Moreover, we derive a suitable representation of the first variation. We
present an algorithm for the adaptive choice of time step size and for the
redistribution of the Fourier coefficients. After discussing the full
discretization we present a wide collection of example flows.