The motivation for this paper is to apply Bayesian structure learning using
Model Averaging in large-scale networks. Currently, Bayesian model averaging
algorithm is applicable to networks with only tens of variables, restrained by
its super-exponential complexity. We present a novel framework, called
LSBN(Large-Scale Bayesian Network), making it possible to handle networks with
infinite size by following the principle of divide-and-conquer. The method of
LSBN comprises three steps. In general, LSBN first performs the partition by
using a second-order partition strategy, which achieves more robust results.
LSBN conducts sampling and structure learning within each overlapping community
after the community is isolated from other variables by Markov Blanket. Finally
LSBN employs an efficient algorithm, to merge structures of overlapping
communities into a whole. In comparison with other four state-of-art
large-scale network structure learning algorithms such as ARACNE, PC, Greedy
Search and MMHC, LSBN shows comparable results in five common benchmark
datasets, evaluated by precision, recall and f-score. What's more, LSBN makes
it possible to learn large-scale Bayesian structure by Model Averaging which
used to be intractable. In summary, LSBN provides an scalable and parallel
framework for the reconstruction of network structures. Besides, the complete
information of overlapping communities serves as the byproduct, which could be
used to mine meaningful clusters in biological networks, such as
protein-protein-interaction network or gene regulatory network, as well as in
social network.