Directionality is a crucial ingredient in many complex networks in which
information, energy or influence are transmitted. In such directed networks,
analysing flows (and not only the strength of connections) is crucial to reveal
important features of the network that might go undetected if the orientation
of connections is ignored. We showcase here a flow-based approach for community
detection in networks through the study of the network of the most influential
Twitter users during the 2011 riots in England. Firstly, we use directed Markov
Stability to extract descriptions of the network at different levels of
coarseness in terms of interest communities, i.e., groups of nodes within which
flows of information are contained and reinforced. Such interest communities
reveal user groupings according to location, profession, employer, and topic.
The study of flows also allows us to generate an interest distance, which
affords a personalised view of the attention in the network as viewed from the
vantage point of any given user. Secondly, we analyse the profiles of incoming
and outgoing long-range flows with a combined approach of role-based similarity
and the novel relaxed minimum spanning tree algorithm to reveal that the users
in the network can be classified into five roles. These flow roles go beyond
the standard leader/follower dichotomy and differ from classifications based on
regular/structural equivalence. We then show that the interest communities fall
into distinct informational organigrams characterised by a different mix of
user roles reflecting the quality of dialogue within them. Our generic
framework can be used to provide insight into how flows are generated,
distributed, preserved and consumed in directed networks.