In multi-radio wireless mesh networks, one node is eligible to transmit
packets over multiple channels to different destination nodes simultaneously.
This feature of multi-radio wireless mesh network makes high throughput for the
network and increase the chance for multi path routing. This is because the
multiple channel availability for transmission decreases the probability of the
most elegant problem called as interference problem which is either of
interflow and intraflow type. For avoiding the problem like interference and
maintaining the constant network performance or increasing the performance the
WMN need to consider the packet aggregation and packet forwarding. Packet
aggregation is process of collecting several packets ready for transmission and
sending them to the intended recipient through the channel, while the packet
forwarding holds the hop-by-hop routing. But choosing the correct path among
different available multiple paths is most the important factor in the both
case for a routing algorithm. Hence the most challenging factor is to determine
a forwarding strategy which will provide the schedule for each node for
transmission within the channel. In this research work we have tried to
implement two forwarding strategies for the multi path multi radio WMN as the
approximate solution for the above said problem. We have implemented Global
State Routing (GSR) which will consider the packet forwarding concept and
Aggregation Aware Layer 2 Routing (AAL2R) which considers the both concept i.e.
both packet forwarding and packet aggregation. After the successful
implementation the network performance has been measured by means of simulation
study.