One of the biggest challenges in biology is to understand how activity at the
cellular level of neurons, as a result of their mutual interactions, leads to
the observed behavior of an organism responding to a variety of environmental
stimuli. Investigating the intermediate or mesoscopic level of organization in
the nervous system is a vital step towards understanding how the integration of
micro-level dynamics results in macro-level functioning. In this paper, we have
considered the somatic nervous system of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans,
for which the entire neuronal connectivity diagram is known. We focus on the
organization of the system into modules, i.e., neuronal groups having
relatively higher connection density compared to that of the overall network.
We show that this mesoscopic feature cannot be explained exclusively in terms
of considerations, such as optimizing for resource constraints (viz., total
wiring cost) and communication efficiency (i.e., network path length).
Comparison with other complex networks designed for efficient transport (of
signals or resources) implies that neuronal networks form a distinct class.
This suggests that the principal function of the network, viz., processing of
sensory information resulting in appropriate motor response, may be playing a
vital role in determining the connection topology. Using modular spectral
analysis, we make explicit the intimate relation between function and structure
in the nervous system. This is further brought out by identifying functionally
critical neurons purely on the basis of patterns of intra- and inter-modular
connections. Our study reveals how the design of the nervous system reflects
several constraints, including its key functional role as a processor of
information.