Networks and network-like structures are amongst the central building blocks
of many technological and biological systems. Given a mathematical graph
representation of a network, methods from graph theory enable a precise
investigation of its properties. Software for the analysis of graphs is widely
available and has been applied to graphs describing large scale networks such
as social networks, protein-interaction networks, etc. In these applications,
graph acquisition, i.e., the extraction of a mathematical graph from a network,
is relatively simple. However, for many network-like structures, e.g. leaf
venations, slime molds and mud cracks, data collection relies on images where
graph extraction requires domain-specific solutions or even manual. Here we
introduce Network Extraction From Images, NEFI, a software tool that
automatically extracts accurate graphs from images of a wide range of networks
originating in various domains. While there is previous work on graph
extraction from images, theoretical results are fully accessible only to an
expert audience and ready-to-use implementations for non-experts are rarely
available or insufficiently documented. NEFI provides a novel platform allowing
practitioners from many disciplines to easily extract graph representations
from images by supplying flexible tools from image processing, computer vision
and graph theory bundled in a convenient package. Thus, NEFI constitutes a
scalable alternative to tedious and error-prone manual graph extraction and
special purpose tools. We anticipate NEFI to enable the collection of larger
datasets by reducing the time spent on graph extraction. The analysis of these
new datasets may open up the possibility to gain new insights into the
structure and function of various types of networks. NEFI is open source and
available http://nefi.mpi-inf.mpg.de.