Biological systems produce outputs in response to variable inputs.
Input-output relations tend to follow a few regular patterns. For example, many
chemical processes follow the S-shaped Hill equation relation between input
concentrations and output concentrations. That Hill equation pattern
contradicts the fundamental Michaelis-Menten theory of enzyme kinetics. I use
the discrepancy between the expected Michaelis-Menten process of enzyme
kinetics and the widely observed Hill equation pattern of biological systems to
explore the general properties of biological input-output relations. I start
with the various processes that could explain the discrepancy between basic
chemistry and biological pattern. I then expand the analysis to consider
broader aspects that shape biological input-output relations. Key aspects
include the input-output processing by component subsystems and how those
components combine to determine the system's overall input-output relations.
That aggregate structure often imposes strong regularity on underlying
disorder. Aggregation imposes order by dissipating information as it flows
through the components of a system. The dissipation of information may be
evaluated by the analysis of measurement and precision, explaining why certain
common scaling patterns arise so frequently in input-output relations. I
discuss how aggregation, measurement and scale provide a framework for
understanding the relations between pattern and process. The regularity imposed
by those broader structural aspects sets the contours of variation in biology.
Thus, biological design will also tend to follow those contours. Natural
selection may act primarily to modulate system properties within those broad
constraints.