"The Price of Robustness" by Bertsimas and Sim represented a breakthrough in
the development of a tractable robust counterpart of Linear Programming
Problems. However, the central modeling assumption that the deviation band of
each uncertain parameter is single may be too limitative in practice:
experience indeed suggests that the deviations distribute also internally to
the single band, so that getting a higher resolution by partitioning the band
into multiple sub-bands seems advisable. The critical aim of our work is to
close the knowledge gap about the adoption of a multi-band uncertainty set in
Robust Optimization: a general definition and intensive theoretical study of a
multi-band model are actually still missing. Our new developments have been
also strongly inspired and encouraged by our industrial partners, which have
been interested in getting a better modeling of arbitrary distributions, built
on historical data of the uncertainty affecting the considered real-world
problems. In this paper, we study the robust counterpart of a Linear
Programming Problem with uncertain coefficient matrix, when a multi-band
uncertainty set is considered. We first show that the robust counterpart
corresponds to a compact LP formulation. Then we investigate the problem of
separating cuts imposing robustness and we show that the separation can be
efficiently operated by solving a min-cost flow problem. Finally, we test the
performance of our new approach to Robust Optimization on realistic instances
of a Wireless Network Design Problem subject to uncertainty.