For an isentropic (thus compressible) flow, fluid trajectories are considered
as orbits of a family of one parameter, smooth, orientation preserving and
nonsingular diffeomorphisms on a compact and smooth-boundary domain in the
Euclidian 3-space which necessarily preserve a finite measure, later
interpreted as the fluid mass. Under such diffeomorphisms the Biot-Savart
helicity of the pushforward of a divergence-free and tangent to the boundary
vector field is proved to be conserved and since these circumstances present an
isentropic flow, the conservation of the "Biot-Savart helicity" is established
for such flows. On the other hand, the well known helicity conservation in
ideal flows which here we call it "physical helicity" is found to be an
independent constant with respect to the Biot-Savart helicity. The difference
between these two helicities reflects some topological features of the domain
as well as the velocity and vorticity fields which is discussed and is shown
for simply connected domains the two helicities coincide. The energy variation
of the vorticity field is shown to be formally the same as for the
incompressible flow obtained before. For fluid domains consisting of several
disjoint solid tori, at each time, the harmonic knot subspace of smooth vector
fields on the fluid domain is found to have two independent base sets with a
special type of orthogonality between these two bases by which a topological
description of the vortex and velocity fields depending on the helicity
difference is achieved since this difference is shown to depend only on the
harmonic knot parts of velocity, vorticity and its Biot-Savart vector field.
For an ideal MHD flow three independent constant helicities are reviewed while
the helicity of magnetic potential is generalized for non-simply connected
domains by inserting a special harmonic knot field in the dynamics of the
magnetic potential.