Background: Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses are highly
valuable in deciphering and understanding the intricate organisation of
cellular functions. Nevertheless, the majority of available protein-protein
interaction networks are context-less, i.e. without any reference to the
spatial, temporal or physiological conditions in which the interactions may
occur. In this work, we are proposing a protocol to infer the most likely
protein-protein interaction (PPI) network in human macrophages. Results: We
integrated the PPI dataset from the Agile Protein Interaction DataAnalyzer
(APID) with different meta-data to infer a contextualized macrophage-specific
interactome using a combination of statistical methods. The obtained
interactome is enriched in experimentally verified interactions and in proteins
involved in macrophage-related biological processes (i.e. immune response
activation, regulation of apoptosis). As a case study, we used the
contextualized interactome to highlight the cellular processes induced upon
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. Conclusion: Our work confirms that
contextualizing interactomes improves the biological significance of
bioinformatic analyses. More specifically, studying such inferred network
rather than focusing at the gene expression level only, is informative on the
processes involved in the host response. Indeed, important immune features such
as apoptosis are solely highlighted when the spotlight is on the protein
interaction level.