We present a high-resolution, highly stratified numerical simulation of
rotating thermal convection in a spherical shell. Our aim is to study in detail
the processes that can maintain a near surface shear layer (NSSL) as inferred
from helioseismology. Using the reduced speed of sound technique we can extend
our global convection simulation to $0.99\,R_{\odot}$ and include near the top
of our domain small-scale convection with short time scales that is only weakly
influenced by rotation. We find the formation of a NSSL preferentially in high
latitudes in the depth range $r=0.95-0.975R_\odot$. The maintenance mechanisms
are summarized as follows. Convection under weak influence of rotation leads to
Reynolds stresses that transport angular momentum radially inward in all
latitudes. This leads to the formation of a strong poleward directed meridional
flow and a NSSL, which is balanced in the meridional plane by forces resulting
from the $\langle v'_r v'_\theta\rangle$ correlation of turbulent velocities.
The origin of the required correlations depends to some degree on latitude. In
high latitudes a positive correlation $\langle v'_rv'_\theta\rangle$ is induced
in the NSSL by the poleward meridional flow whose amplitude increases with the
radius, while a negative correlation is generated by the Coriolis force in bulk
of the convection zone. In low latitudes a positive correlation $\langle
v'_rv'_\theta\rangle$ results from rotationally aligned convection cells
("banana cells"). The force caused by these Reynolds stresses is in balance
with the Coriolis force in the NSSL.