The focus of this study is on cross-region R&D collaboration networks in the
EU Framework Programmes (FP's). In contrast to most other empirical studies in
this field, we shift attention to regions as units of analysis, i.e. we use
aggregated data on research collaborations at the regional level. The objective
is to identify determinants of cross-region collaboration patterns. In
particular, we are interested whether geographical and technological distances
are significant determinants of interregional cooperation. Further we
investigate differences between intra-industry networks and public research
networks (i.e. universities and research organisations). The European coverage
is achieved by using data on 255 NUTS-2 regions of the 25 pre-2007 EU
member-states, as well as Norway and Switzerland. We adopt a Poisson spatial
interaction modelling perspective to analyse these questions. The dependent
variable is the intensity of collaborative interactions between two regions,
the independent variables are region-specific characteristics and variables
that measure the separation between two regions such as geographical or
technological distance. The results provide striking evidence that geographical
factors are important determinants of cross-region collaboration intensities,
but the effect of technological proximity is stronger. R&D collaborations occur
most often between organisations that are located close to each other in
technological space. Moreover geographical distance effects are significantly
higher for intra-industry than for public research collaborations.