In this study, we formulate the VSL control problem for the traffic system in
a zone upstream to a lane-drop bottleneck based on two traffic flow models: the
Lighthill-Whitham-Richards (LWR) model, which is an infinite-dimensional
partial differential equation, and the link queue model, which is a
finite-dimensional ordinary differential equation. In both models, the
discharging flow-rate is determined by a recently developed model of capacity
drop, and the upstream in-flux is regulated by the speed limit in the VSL zone.
Since the link queue model approximates the LWR model and is much simpler, we
first analyze the control problem and develop effective VSL strategies based on
the former. First for an open-loop control system with a constant speed limit,
we prove that a constant speed limit can introduce an uncongested equilibrium
state, in addition to a congested one with capacity drop, but the congested
equilibrium state is always exponentially stable. Then we apply a feedback
proportional-integral (PI) controller to form a closed-loop control system, in
which the congested equilibrium state and, therefore, capacity drop can be
removed by the I-controller. Both analytical and numerical results show that,
with appropriately chosen controller parameters, the closed-loop control system
is stable, effect, and robust. Finally, we show that the VSL strategies based
on I- and PI-controllers are also stable, effective, and robust for the LWR
model. Since the properties of the control system are transferable between the
two models, we establish a dual approach for studying the control problems of
nonlinear traffic flow systems. We also confirm that the VSL strategy is
effective only if capacity drop occurs. The obtained method and insights can be
useful for future studies on other traffic control methods and implementations
of VSL strategies.