A theoretical study is presented of the effect of a radially converging melt
flow, which is directed away from the solidification front, on the radial
solute segregation in simple solidification models. We show that the classical
Burton-Prim-Slichter (BPS) solution describing the effect of a diverging flow
on the solute incorporation into the solidifying material breaks down for the
flows converging along the solidification front. The breakdown is caused by a
divergence of the integral defining the effective boundary layer thickness
which is the basic concept of the BPS theory. Although such a divergence can
formally be avoided by restricting the axial extension of the melt to a layer
of finite height, radially uniform solute distributions are possible only for
weak melt flows with an axial velocity away from the solidification front
comparable to the growth rate. There is a critical melt velocity for each
growth rate at which the solution passes through a singularity and becomes
physically inconsistent for stronger melt flows. To resolve these
inconsistencies we consider a solidification front presented by a disk of
finite radius $R_0$ subject to a strong converging melt flow and obtain an
analytic solution showing that the radial solute concentration depends on the
radius $r$ as $\sim\ln^{1/3}(R_0/r)$ and $\sim\ln(R_0/r)$ close to the rim and
at large distances from it. The logarithmic increase of concentration is
limited in the vicinity of the symmetry axis by the diffusion becoming
effective at a distance comparable to the characteristic thickness of the
solute boundary layer. The converging flow causes a solute pile-up forming a
logarithmic concentration peak at the symmetry axis which might be an
undesirable feature for crystal growth processes.