Recently, the focus of complex networks research has shifted from the
analysis of isolated properties of a system toward a more realistic modeling of
multiple phenomena - multilayer networks. Motivated by the prosperity of
multilayer approach in social, transport or trade systems, we propose the
introduction of multilayer networks for language. The multilayer network of
language is a unified framework for modeling linguistic subsystems and their
structural properties enabling the exploration of their mutual interactions.
Various aspects of natural language systems can be represented as complex
networks, whose vertices depict linguistic units, while links model their
relations. The multilayer network of language is defined by three aspects: the
network construction principle, the linguistic subsystem and the language of
interest. More precisely, we construct a word-level (syntax, co-occurrence and
its shuffled counterpart) and a subword level (syllables and graphemes) network
layers, from five variations of original text (in the modeled language). The
obtained results suggest that there are substantial differences between the
networks structures of different language subsystems, which are hidden during
the exploration of an isolated layer. The word-level layers share structural
properties regardless of the language (e.g. Croatian or English), while the
syllabic subword level expresses more language dependent structural properties.
The preserved weighted overlap quantifies the similarity of word-level layers
in weighted and directed networks. Moreover, the analysis of motifs reveals a
close topological structure of the syntactic and syllabic layers for both
languages. The findings corroborate that the multilayer network framework is a
powerful, consistent and systematic approach to model several linguistic
subsystems simultaneously and hence to provide a more unified view on language.