Traffic is the chief puzzle problem which every country faces because of the
enhancement in number of vehicles throughout the world, especially in large
urban towns. Hence the need arises for simulating and optimizing traffic
control algorithms to better accommodate this increasing demand. Fuzzy
optimization deals with finding the values of input parameters of a complex
simulated system which result in desired output. This paper presents a MATLAB
simulation of fuzzy logic traffic controller for controlling flow of traffic in
isolated intersections. This controller is based on the waiting time and queue
length of vehicles at present green phase and vehicles queue lengths at the
other phases. The controller controls the traffic light timings and phase
difference to ascertain sebaceous flow of traffic with least waiting time and
queue length. In this paper, the isolated intersection model used consists of
two alleyways in each approach. Every outlook has different value of queue
length and waiting time, systematically, at the intersection. The maximum value
of waiting time and vehicle queue length has to be selected by using proximity
sensors as inputs to controller for the ameliorate control traffic flow at the
intersection. An intelligent traffic model and fuzzy logic traffic controller
are developed to evaluate the performance of traffic controller under different
pre-defined conditions for oleaginous flow of traffic. Additionally, this fuzzy
logic traffic controller has emergency vehicle siren sensors which detect
emergency vehicle movement like ambulance, fire brigade, Police Van etc. and
gives maximum priority to him and pass preferred signal to it.