We present results from a numerical forward model to evaluate one-dimensional
reduced power spectral densities (PSD) from arbitrary energy distributions in
$\mathbf{k}$-space. In this model, we can separately calculate the diagonal
elements of the spectral tensor for incompressible axisymmetric turbulence with
vanishing helicity. Given a critically balanced turbulent cascade with
$k_\|\sim k_\perp^\alpha$ and $\alpha<1$, we explore the implications on the
reduced PSD as a function of frequency. The spectra are obtained under the
assumption of Taylor's hypothesis. We further investigate the functional
dependence of the spectral index $\kappa$ on the field-to-flow angle $\theta$
between plasma flow and background magnetic field from MHD to electron kinetic
scales. We show that critically balanced turbulence asymptotically develops
toward $\theta$-independent spectra with a slope corresponding to the
perpendicular cascade. This occurs at a transition frequency
$f_{2D}(L,\alpha,\theta)$, which is analytically estimated and depends on outer
scale $L$, critical balance exponent $\alpha$ and field-to-flow angle $\theta$.
We discuss anisotropic damping terms acting on the $\mathbf{k}$-space
distribution of energy and their effects on the PSD. Further, we show that the
spectral anisotropies $\kappa(\theta)$ as found by Horbury et al. (2008) and
Chen et al. (2010) in the solar wind are in accordance with a damped critically
balanced cascade of kinetic Alfv\'en waves. We also model power spectra
obtained by von Papen et al. (2014) in Saturn's plasma sheet and find that the
change of spectral indices inside $9\,R_\mathrm{s}$ can be explained by damping
on electron scales.