We study steady, radial gas outflows from galaxies in an effort to understand
the way tenuous and hot gas is transported to large distances away from
galaxies. In particular, we obtain solutions for outflow problems, and study
the outflow topology, effects of the galaxy mass, the size of outflow regions,
the efficiency of radiative cooling, and the fate of the cooled gas. Under
general power-law forms for the cooling function and the gravitational field of
galaxies, we show that the outflow solutions are determined by the
two-parameter initial conditions. In an analogy with stellar wind or accretion
problems, we demonstrate that there exists no transonic flow, but either
subsonic or supersonic flows are obtainable. Solutions of the supersonic
outflows are studied in detail as they are most likely to carry gas to large
distances away from galaxies. We find that if gravity is weak, the outflow is
characterized by the ratio of the radiative cooling time to the flow time,
$t_c/t_f$. The importance of the galactic gravitational field is characterized
by the fractional energy lost radiatively within the flow time in outflows with
velocity equal to the circular velocity of the galaxy; if the fraction is
small, gravity stops the outflow before the gas has a chance to cool
radiatively. In the case the gas does cool radiatively, the cooled gas is most
likely to form clouds via various instabilities. The clouds coast farther away
from the galaxy because of the finite kinetic energy they inherit. We find that
the hot gas in dwarf galaxies can either flow out as galactic winds, or cools
radiatively to form clouds. In the latter case, the clouds escape the galaxies.
In contrast, massive galaxies like our own tend to confine the gas. We present
the surface brightness in various x-ray energy bands. We also estimate the mean