Previously we published a dynamical model (E. Brown and G. Ahlers, Phys.
Fluids, 20, 075101 (2008)) for the large-scale-circulation (LSC) dynamics of
Rayleigh-Benard convection in cylindrical containers. The model consists of a
pair of stochastic ordinary differential equations, motivated by the
Navier-Stokes equations, one each for the strength delta and the orientation
theta_0 of the LSC. Here we extend it to cases where the rotational invariance
of the system is broken by one of several physically relevant perturbations. As
an example we present experimental measurements of the LSC dynamics for a
container tilted relative to gravity. In that case the model predicts that the
buoyancy of the thermal boundary layers encourages fluid to travel along the
steepest slope, that it locks the LSC in this direction, and that it
strengthens the flow, as seen in experiments. The increase in LSC strength is
shown to be responsible for the observed suppression of cessations and
azimuthal fluctuations. We predict and observe that for large enough tilt
angles, the restoring force that aligns the flow with the slope is strong
enough to cause oscillations of the LSC around this orientation. This planar
oscillation mode is different from coherent torsional oscillations that have
been observed previously. The model was applied also to containers with
elliptical cross-sections and predicts that the pressure due to the side walls
forces the flow into a preferred orientation in the direction of the longest
diameter. When the ellipticity is large enough, then oscillations around this
orientation are predicted.