Network densification along with universal resources reuse is expected to
play a key role in the realization of 5G radio access as an enabler for
delivering most of the anticipated network capacity improvements. On the one
hand, neither the expected additional spectrum allocation nor the forthcoming
novel air-interface processing techniques will be sufficient for sustaining the
anticipated exponentially-increasing mobile data traffic. On the other hand,
enhanced ultra-dense infrastructure deployments are expected to provide
remarkable capacity gains, regardless of the evolutionary or revolutionary
approach followed towards 5G development. In this work, we thoroughly examine
global network coordination as the main enabler for future 5G large dense
small-cell deployments. We propose a powerful radio resources coordination
framework through which interference management is handled network-wise and
jointly over multiple dimensions. In particular, we explore strategies for
pairing serving and served access nodes, partitioning the available network
resources, as well as dynamically allocating power per pair, towards optimizing
system performance and guaranteeing individual minimum performance levels. We
develop new optimization formulations, providing network scaling performance
upper bounds, along with lower complexity algorithmic solutions tailored to
large networks. We apply the proposed solutions to dense network deployments,
in order to obtain useful insights on network performance and optimization,
such as rate scaling, infrastructure density, optimal bandwidth partitioning
and spatial reuse factor optimization.