The early Universe is a precious probe of the birth of primordial objects,
first star formation events and consequent production of photons and heavy
elements. Higher-order corrections to the cosmological linear perturbation
theory predicts the formation of coherent supersonic gaseous streaming motions
at decoupling time. These bulk flows impact the gas cooling process and
determine a cascade effect on the whole baryon evolution. By analytical
estimates and N-body hydrodynamical chemistry numerical simulations including
atomic and molecular evolution, gas cooling, star formation, feedback effects
and metal spreading for individual species from different stellar populations
according to the proper yields and lifetimes, we discuss the role of these
primordial bulk flows at the end of the dark ages and their detectable impacts
during the first Gyr in view of the upcoming SKA mission. Early bulk flows can
inhibit molecular gas cooling capabilities, suppressing star formation, metal
spreading and the abundance of small primordial galaxies in the infant
Universe. This can determine a delay in the re-ionization process and in the
heating of neutral hydrogen making the observable HI signal during cosmic
evolution patchier and noisier. The planned SKA mission will represent a major
advance over existing instruments, since it will be able to probe the effects
on HI 21cm at z ~ 6-20 and on molecular line emissions from first collapsing
sites at z ~ 20-40. Therefore, it will be optimal to address the effects of
primordial streaming motions on early baryon evolution and to give constraints
on structure formation in the first Gyr.