We investigate through high resolution 3D simulations the nonlinear evolution
of compressible magnetohydrodynamic flows subject to the Kelvin-Helmholtz
instability. We confirm in 3D flows the conclusion from our 2D work that even
apparently weak magnetic fields embedded in Kelvin-Helmholtz unstable plasma
flows can be fundamentally important to nonlinear evolution of the instability.
In fact, that statement is strengthened in 3D by this work, because it shows
how field line bundles can be stretched and twisted in 3D as the quasi-2D Cat's
Eye vortex forms out of the hydrodynamical motions. In our simulations twisting
of the field may increase the maximum field strength by more than a factor of
two over the 2D effect. If, by these developments, the Alfv\'en Mach number of
flows around the Cat's Eye drops to unity or less, our simulations suggest
magnetic stresses will eventually destroy the Cat's Eye and cause the plasma
flow to self-organize into a relatively smooth and apparently stable flow that
retains memory of the original shear. For our flow configurations the regime in
3D for such reorganization is $4\lesssim M_{Ax} \lesssim 50$, expressed in
terms of the Alfv\'en Mach number of the original velocity transition and the
initial Alfv\'en speed projected to the flow plan. For weaker fields the
instability remains essentially hydrodynamic in early stages, and the Cat's Eye
is destroyed by the hydrodynamic secondary instabilities of a 3D nature. Then,
the flows evolve into chaotic structures that approach decaying isotropic
turbulence. In this stage, there is considerable enhancement to the magnetic
energy due to stretching, twisting, and turbulent amplification, which is
retained long afterwards. The magnetic energy eventually catches up to the
kinetic energy, and the nature of flows become magnetohydrodynamic.