Green energy powered cognitive radio (CR) network is capable of liberating
the wireless access networks from spectral and energy constraints. The
limitation of the spectrum is alleviated by exploiting cognitive networking in
which wireless nodes sense and utilize the spare spectrum for data
communications, while dependence on the traditional unsustainable energy is
assuaged by adopting energy harvesting (EH) through which green energy can be
harnessed to power wireless networks. Green energy powered CR increases the
network availability and thus extends emerging network applications. Designing
green CR networks is challenging. It requires not only the optimization of
dynamic spectrum access but also the optimal utilization of green energy. This
paper surveys the energy efficient cognitive radio techniques and the
optimization of green energy powered wireless networks. Existing works on
energy aware spectrum sensing, management, and sharing are investigated in
detail. The state of the art of the energy efficient CR based wireless access
network is discussed in various aspects such as relay and cooperative radio and
small cells. Envisioning green energy as an important energy resource in the
future, network performance highly depends on the dynamics of the available
spectrum and green energy. As compared with the traditional energy source, the
arrival rate of green energy, which highly depends on the environment of the
energy harvesters, is rather random and intermittent. To optimize and adapt the
usage of green energy according to the opportunistic spectrum availability, we
discuss research challenges in designing cognitive radio networks which are
powered by energy harvesters.