Spectral line and continuum observations of the ionized and molecular gas in
G20.08-0.14 N explore the dynamics of accretion over a range of spatial scales
in this massive star-forming region. Very Large Array observations of NH_3 at
4'' angular resolution show a large-scale (0.5 pc) molecular accretion flow
around and into a star cluster with three small, bright HII regions. Higher
resolution (0.4'') observations with the Submillimeter Array in hot core
molecules (CH_3CN, OCS, and SO_2) and the VLA in NH_3, show that the two
brightest and smallest HII regions are themselves surrounded by smaller scale
(0.05 pc) accretion flows. The axes of rotation of the large- and small-scale
flows are aligned, and the timescale for the contraction of the cloud is short
enough, 0.1 Myr, for the large-scale accretion flow to deliver significant mass
to the smaller scales within the star formation timescale. The flow structure
appears to be continuous and hierarchical from larger to smaller scales.
  Millimeter radio recombination line (RRL) observations at 0.4" angular
resolution indicate rotation and outflow of the ionized gas within the
brightest HII region (A). The broad recombination lines and a continuum
spectral energy distribution (SED) that rises continuously from cm to mm
wavelengths, are both characteristic of the class of HII regions known as
"broad recombination line objects". The SED indicates a density gradient inside
this HII region, and the RRLs suggest supersonic flows. These observations are
consistent with photoevaporation of the inner part of the rotationally
flattened molecular accretion flow.
  We also report the serendipitous detection of a new NH_3 (3,3) maser.