We conduct experiments in a turbulent bubbly flow to study the unknown nature
of the transition between the classical -5/3 energy spectrum scaling for a
single-phase turbulent flow and the -3 scaling for a swarm of bubbles rising in
a quiescent liquid and of bubble-dominated turbulence. The bubblance parameter,
b, which measures the ratio of the bubble-induced kinetic energy to the kinetic
energy induced by the turbulent liquid fluctuations before bubble injection, is
used to characterise the bubbly flow. We vary b from $b = \infty$
(pseudo-turbulence) to b = 0 (single-phase flow) over 2-3 orders of magnitude:
~O(0.01, 0.1, 5) to study its effect on the turbulent energy spectrum and
liquid velocity fluctuations. The experiments are conducted in a multi-phase
turbulent water tunnel with air bubbles of diameters 2-4 mm and 3-5 mm. An
active-grid is used to generate nearly homogeneous and isotropic turbulence in
the liquid flow. The liquid speeds and gas void fractions are varied to achieve
the above mentioned b parameter regimes. The experiments employ a
phase-sensitive Constant Temperature Anemometry (CTA) technique, which provides
in-situ flow information to help discard bubble collisions. The net liquid
fluctuations in the system slightly increase with the b parameter (when b < 1)
and then saturate for b > 1. The energy spectra are found to follow the -3
subrange scaling not only in the well-established case of pseudo-turbulence,
but in all cases where bubbles are present in the system (b > 0), in the
present parameter regime. It is remarkable that this -3 scaling is followed
even for small b parameter values (b~O(0.01)). This implies that the bubbles
are extremely efficient in leaving their spectral signature in the flow,
presumably due to the long lifetime of the bubbles' wake. The -3 spectrum
scaling thus seems to be a generic feature of turbulent bubbly flows.