We propose a graphical model for representing networks of stochastic
processes, the minimal generative model graph. It is based on reduced
factorizations of the joint distribution over time. We show that under
appropriate conditions, it is unique and consistent with another type of
graphical model, the directed information graph, which is based on a
generalization of Granger causality. We demonstrate how directed information
quantifies Granger causality in a particular sequential prediction setting. We
also develop efficient methods to estimate the topological structure from data
that obviate estimating the joint statistics. One algorithm assumes
upper-bounds on the degrees and uses the minimal dimension statistics
necessary. In the event that the upper-bounds are not valid, the resulting
graph is nonetheless an optimal approximation. Another algorithm uses
near-minimal dimension statistics when no bounds are known but the distribution
satisfies a certain criterion. Analogous to how structure learning algorithms
for undirected graphical models use mutual information estimates, these
algorithms use directed information estimates. We characterize the
sample-complexity of two plug-in directed information estimators and obtain
confidence intervals. For the setting when point estimates are unreliable, we
propose an algorithm that uses confidence intervals to identify the best
approximation that is robust to estimation error. Lastly, we demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed algorithms through analysis of both synthetic
data and real data from the Twitter network. In the latter case, we identify
which news sources influence users in the network by merely analyzing tweet
times.