A microscopic approach is presented for calculating general properties of
interacting Brownian particles under steady shearing. We start from exact
expressions for shear-dependent steady-state averages, such as correlation and
structure functions, in the form of generalized Green-Kubo relations. To these
we apply approximations inspired by the mode coupling theory (MCT) for the
quiescent system, accessing steady-state properties by integration through the
transient dynamics after startup of steady shear. Exact equations of motion,
with memory effects, for the required transient density correlation functions
are derived next; these can also be approximated within an MCT-like approach.
This results in closed equations for the non-equilibrium stationary state of
sheared dense colloidal dispersions, with the equilibrium structure factor of
the unsheared system as the only input. In three dimensions, these equations
currently require further approximation prior to numerical solution. However,
some universal aspects can be analyzed exactly, including the discontinuous
onset of a yield stress at the ideal glass transition predicted by MCT. Using
these methods we additionally discuss the distorted microstructure of a sheared
hard-sphere colloid near the glass transition, and consider how this relates to
the shear stress. Time-dependent fluctuations around the stationary state are
then approximated, and compared to data from experiment and simulation; the
correlators for yielding glassy states obey a `time-shear-superposition'
principle. The work presented here fully develops an approach first outlined
previously (M. Fuchs and M. E. Cates, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 248304, (2002)),
while incorporating a significant technical change from that work in the choice
of mode coupling approximation used, whose advantages are discussed.