A streamwise-constant model is presented to investigate the basic mechanisms
responsible for the change in mean flow occuring during pipe flow transition.
Using a single forced momentum balance equation, we show that the shape of the
velocity profile is robust to changes in the forcing profile and that both
linear non-normal and nonlinear effects are required to capture the change in
mean flow associated with transition to turbulence. The particularly simple
form of the model allows for the study of the momentum transfer directly by
inspection of the equations. The distribution of the high- and low-speed
streaks over the cross-section of the pipe produced by our model is remarkably
similar to one observed in the velocity field near the trailing edge of the
puff structures present in pipe flow transition. Under stochastic forcing, the
model exhibits a quasi-periodic self-sustaining cycle characterized by the
creation and subsequent decay of "streamwise-constant puffs", so-called due to
the good agreement between the temporal evolution of their velocity field and
the projection of the velocity field associated with three-dimensional puffs in
a frame of reference moving at the bulk velocity. We establish that the flow
dynamics are relatively insensitive to the regeneration mechanisms invoked to
produce near-wall streamwise vortices and that using small, unstructured
background disturbances to regenerate the streamwise vortices is sufficient to
capture the formation of the high- and low-speed streaks and their segregation
leading to the blunting of the velocity profile characteristic of turbulent
pipe flow.