Quantification of human group-behavior has so far defied an empirical,
falsifiable approach. This is due to tremendous difficulties in data
acquisition of social systems. Massive multiplayer online games (MMOG) provide
a fascinating new way of observing hundreds of thousands of simultaneously
socially interacting individuals engaged in virtual economic activities. We
have compiled a data set consisting of practically all actions of all players
over a period of three years from a MMOG played by 300,000 people. This
large-scale data set of a socio-economic unit contains all social and economic
data from a single and coherent source. Players have to generate a virtual
income through economic activities to `survive' and are typically engaged in a
multitude of social activities offered within the game. Our analysis of
high-frequency log files focuses on three types of social networks, and tests a
series of social-dynamics hypotheses. In particular we study the structure and
dynamics of friend-, enemy- and communication networks. We find striking
differences in topological structure between positive (friend) and negative
(enemy) tie networks. All networks confirm the recently observed phenomenon of
network densification. We propose two approximate social laws in communication
networks, the first expressing betweenness centrality as the inverse square of
the overlap, the second relating communication strength to the cube of the
overlap. These empirical laws provide strong quantitative evidence for the Weak
ties hypothesis of Granovetter. Further, the analysis of triad significance
profiles validates well-established assertions from social balance theory. We
find overrepresentation (underrepresentation) of complete (incomplete) triads
in networks of positive ties, and vice versa for networks of negative ties...