Adaptive routing algorithm has been employed in multichip interconnection
networks in order to improve network performance. Does a algorithm use local or
global network state? This is the key question in adaptive routing. In many
traffic patterns, the ignorance of global network state, leading to routing
selection based only on local congestion information, tends to violate global
load balance. To attack the load balance issue in adapting routing, some global
adaptive routing algorithms introduce a congestion propagation network to
obtain global network status information, such as Regional Congestion Awareness
(RCA) and Destination Based Adaptive Routing (DBAR).
  However, the congestion propagation network leads to additional power and
area consumption which cannot be ignored. From another view, if we just
increase the bandwidth between neighbor nodes with the wires used to build the
congestion propagation network, the network performance could be improved as
well. In this paper, we propose a global adaptive routing algorithm without
employing the additional congestion propagation network. Our algorithm obtains
the global network state in a novel way, and can offer significant improvement
than the base-line local adaptive routing algorithm (xy-adaptive algorithm
which selects routing based on local congestion information in each hop) for
both medium and high injection rates.
  In wormhole flow control, all the routing information (flit id, source node
id, destination node id, vc id and address) is contained in head flit, and data
is carried in body flits. As a result, there are always many free bits in the
head flit, especially when the bandwidth is 128-bits which is normal in
interconnection network design. Then, we can use these free bits in the head
flit to propagate global congestion information but not increase the number of
flits.