We establish the well-posedness of compressible vortex sheets and entropy
waves in two-dimensional steady supersonic Euler flows over Lipschitz walls
under a $BV$ boundary perturbation. In particular, when the total variation of
the incoming flow perturbation around the background strong vortex
sheet/entropy wave is small, we prove that the two-dimensional steady
supersonic Euler flows containing a strong vortex sheet/entropy wave past a
Lipschitz wall are $L^{1}$--stable. Both the Lipschitz wall (whose boundary
slope function has small total variation) and incoming flow perturb the
background strong vortex sheet/entropy wave. The weak waves are reflected after
nonlinear waves interact with the strong vortex sheet/entropy wave and the wall
boundary. Using the wave-front tracking method, the existence of solutions in
$BV$ over Lipschitz walls is first shown, when the incoming flow perturbation
of the background strong vortex sheet/entropy wave has small total variation.
Then we establish the $L^{1}$--contraction of the solutions with respect to the
incoming flows. To achieve this, a Lyapunov functional, equivalent to the
$L^{1}$--distance between two solutions containing strong vortex sheets/entropy
waves, is carefully constructed to include the nonlinear waves generated both
by the wall boundary and from the incoming flow. This functional is then shown
to decrease in the flow direction, leading to the $L^{1}$--stability, as well
as the uniqueness, of the solutions. Furthermore, the uniqueness of solutions
extends to a larger class of viscosity solutions.