Transport by meridional flows has significant consequences for stellar
evolution, but is difficult to capture in global-scale numerical simulations
because of the wide range of timescales involved. Stellar evolution models
therefore usually adopt parameterizations for such transport based on idealized
laminar or mean-field models. Unfortunately, recent attempts to model this
transport in global simulations have produced results that are not consistent
with any of these idealized models. In an effort to explain the discrepancies
between global simulations and idealized models, we here use three-dimensional
local Cartesian simulations of compressible convection to study the efficiency
of transport by meridional flows below a convection zone in several parameter
regimes of relevance to the Sun and solar-type stars. In these local
simulations we are able to establish the correct ordering of dynamical
timescales, although the separation of the timescales remains unrealistic. We
find that, even though the generation of internal waves by convective overshoot
produces a high degree of time dependence in the meridional flow field, the
mean flow has the qualitative behavior predicted by laminar, "balanced" models.
In particular, we observe a progressive deepening, or "burrowing", of the mean
circulation if the local Eddington-Sweet timescale is shorter than the viscous
diffusion timescale. Such burrowing is a robust prediction of laminar models in
this parameter regime, but has never been observed in any previous numerical
simulation. We argue that previous simulations therefore underestimate the
transport by meridional flows.