To cope with the complexity of large networks, a number of dimensionality
reduction techniques for graphs have been developed. However, the extent to
which information is lost or preserved when these techniques are employed has
not yet been clear. Here we develop a framework, based on algorithmic
information theory, to quantify the extent to which information is preserved
when network motif analysis, graph spectra and spectral sparsification methods
are applied to over twenty different biological and artificial networks. We
find that the spectral sparsification is highly sensitive to high number of
edge deletion, leading to significant inconsistencies, and that graph spectral
methods are the most irregular, capturing algebraic information in a condensed
fashion but largely losing most of the information content of the original
networks. However, the approach shows that network motif analysis excels at
preserving the relative algorithmic information content of a network, hence
validating and generalizing the remarkable fact that despite their inherent
combinatorial possibilities, local regularities preserve information to such an
extent that essential properties are fully recoverable across different
networks to determine their family group to which they belong to (eg genetic vs
social network). Our algorithmic information methodology thus provides a
rigorous framework enabling a fundamental assessment and comparison between
different data dimensionality reduction methods thereby facilitating the
identification and evaluation of the capabilities of old and new methods.