As the Internet becomes severely overburdened with exponentially growing
traffic demand, it becomes a general belief that a new generation data network
is in urgent need today. However, standing at this crossroad, we find that we
are in a situation that lacks a theory of network designing. This issue becomes
even more serious as the recent progress of network measurement and modeling
challenges the foundation of network research in the past decades.
  This paper tries to set up a scientific foundation for network designing by
formalizing it as a multi-objective optimization process and quantifying the
way different designing choices independently and collectively influence these
objectives. A cartesian coordinate system is introduced to map the effect of
each designing scheme to a coordinate. We investigated the achievable area of
the network designing space and proved some boundary conditions. It is shown
that different kind of networks display different shapes of achievable areas in
the cartesian coordinate and exhibit different abilities to achieve
cost-effective and scalable designing. In particular, we found that the
philosophy underlying current empirical network designing and engineering fails
to meet the cost-effective and evolvable requirements of network designing. We
demonstrated that the efficient routing combined with effective betweenness
based link bandwidth allocation scheme is a cost-effective and scalable design
for BA-like scale-free networks, whereas if other designing choices cannot be
determined beforehand, ER network is a markedly good candidate for
cost-effective and scalable design.