Network coding theory studies the transmission of information in networks
whose vertices may perform nontrivial encoding and decoding operations on data
as it passes through the network. The main approach to deciding the feasibility
of network coding problems aims to reduce the problem to optimization over a
polytope of entropic vectors subject to constraints imposed by the network
structure. In the case of directed acyclic graphs, these constraints are
completely understood, but for general graphs the problem of enumerating them
remains open: it is not known how to classify the constraints implied by a
property that we call serializability, which refers to the absence of
paradoxical circular dependencies in a network code.
  In this work we initiate the first systematic study of the constraints
imposed on a network code by serializability. We find that serializability
cannot be detected solely by evaluating the Shannon entropy of edge sets in the
graph, but nevertheless, we give a polynomial-time algorithm that decides the
serializability of a network code. We define a certificate of
non-serializability, called an information vortex, that plays a role in the
theory of serializability comparable to the role of fractional cuts in
multicommodity flow theory, including a type of min-max relation. Finally, we
study the serializability deficit of a network code, defined as the minimum
number of extra bits that must be sent in order to make it serializable. For
linear codes, we show that it is NP-hard to approximate this parameter within a
constant factor, and we demonstrate some surprising facts about the behavior of
this parameter under parallel composition of codes.