The resting brain dynamics self-organizes into a finite number of correlated
patterns known as resting state networks (RSNs). It is well known that
techniques like independent component analysis can separate the brain activity
at rest to provide such RSNs, but the specific pattern of interaction between
RSNs is not yet fully understood. To this aim, we propose here a novel method
to compute the information flow (IF) between different RSNs from resting state
magnetic resonance imaging. After haemodynamic response function blind
deconvolution of all voxel signals, and under the hypothesis that RSNs define
regions of interest, our method first uses principal component analysis to
reduce dimensionality in each RSN to next compute IF (estimated here in terms
of Transfer Entropy) between the different RSNs by systematically increasing k
(the number of principal components used in the calculation). When k = 1, this
method is equivalent to computing IF using the average of all voxel activities
in each RSN. For k greater than one our method calculates the k-multivariate IF
between the different RSNs. We find that the average IF among RSNs is
dimension-dependent, increasing from k =1 (i.e., the average voxels activity)
up to a maximum occurring at k =5 to finally decay to zero for k greater than
10. This suggests that a small number of components (close to 5) is sufficient
to describe the IF pattern between RSNs. Our method - addressing differences in
IF between RSNs for any generic data - can be used for group comparison in
health or disease. To illustrate this, we have calculated the interRSNs IF in a
dataset of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) to find that the most significant
differences between AD and controls occurred for k =2, in addition to AD
showing increased IF w.r.t. controls.