Black hole (BH) accretion flows and jets are dynamic hot relativistic
magnetized plasma flows whose radiative opacity can significantly affect flow
structure and behavior. We describe a numerical scheme, tests, and an
astrophysically relevant application using the M1 radiation closure within a
new three-dimensional (3D) general relativistic (GR) radiation (R)
magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) massively parallel code called HARMRAD. Our 3D
GRRMHD simulation of super-Eddington accretion (about $20$ times Eddington)
onto a rapidly rotating BH (dimensionless spin $j=0.9375$) shows sustained
non-axisymmemtric disk turbulence, a persistent electromagnetic jet driven by
the Blandford-Znajek effect, and a total radiative output consistently near the
Eddington rate. The total accretion efficiency is of order $20\%$, the
large-scale electromagnetic jet efficiency is of order $10\%$, and the total
radiative efficiency that reaches large distances remains low at only order
$1\%$. However, the radiation jet and the electromagnetic jet both emerge from
a geometrically beamed polar region, with super-Eddington isotropic equivalent
luminosities. Such simulations with HARMRAD can enlighten the role of BH spin
vs.\ disks in launching jets, help determine the origin of spectral and
temporal states in x-ray binaries, help understand how tidal disruption events
(TDEs) work, provide an accurate horizon-scale flow structure for M87 and other
active galactic nuclei (AGN), and isolate whether AGN feedback is driven by
radiation or by an electromagnetic, thermal, or kinetic wind/jet. For example,
the low radiative efficiency and weak BH spin-down rate from our simulation
suggest that BH growth over cosmological times to billions of solar masses by
redshifts of $z\sim 6-8$ is achievable even with rapidly rotating BHs and ten
solar mass BH seeds.