Recently there has been a lot of interest in identifying modules at the level
of genetic and metabolic networks of organisms, as well as in identifying
single genes and reactions that are essential for the organism. A goal of
computational and systems biology is to go beyond identification towards an
explanation of specific modules and essential genes and reactions in terms of
specific structural or evolutionary constraints. In the metabolic networks of
E. coli, S. cerevisiae and S. aureus, we identified metabolites with a low
degree of connectivity, particularly those that are produced and/or consumed in
just a single reaction. Using FBA we also determined reactions essential for
growth in these metabolic networks. We find that most reactions identified as
essential in these networks turn out to be those involving the production or
consumption of low degree metabolites. Applying graph theoretic methods to
these metabolic networks, we identified connected clusters of these low degree
metabolites. The genes involved in several operons in E. coli are correctly
predicted as those of enzymes catalyzing the reactions of these clusters. We
independently identified clusters of reactions whose fluxes are perfectly
correlated. We find that the composition of the latter `functional clusters' is
also largely explained in terms of clusters of low degree metabolites in each
of these organisms. Our findings mean that most metabolic reactions that are
essential can be tagged by one or more low degree metabolites. Those reactions
are essential because they are the only ways of producing or consuming their
respective tagged metabolites. Furthermore, reactions whose fluxes are strongly
correlated can be thought of as `glued together' by these low degree
metabolites.