129 Long Period (LP) events, divided into two families of similar events,
were recorded by the 50 stations deployed on Mount Etna in the second half of
June 2008. During this period lava was flowing from a lateral fracture after a
summit strombolian eruption. In order to understand the mechanisms of these
events, we perform moment tensor inversions. Inversions are initially kept
unconstrained to estimate the most likely mechanism. Numerical tests show that
unconstrained inversion leads to reliable moment tensor solutions because of
the close proximity of numerous stations to the source positions. However,
single forces cannot be accurately determined as they are very sensitive to
uncertainties in the velocity model. Constrained inversions for a crack, a pipe
or an explosion then allow us to accurately determine the structural
orientations of the source mechanisms. Both numerical tests and LP event
inversions emphasise the importance of using stations located as close as
possible to the source. Inversions for both families show mechanisms with a
strong volumetric component. These events are most likely generated by cracks
striking SW-NE for both families and dipping 70\deg SE (Family 1) and 50\deg NW
(Family 2). For Family 1 events, the crack geometry is nearly orthogonal to the
dike-like structure along which events are located, while for Family 2 the
location gave two pipe-like bodies which belong to the same plane as the crack
mechanism. The orientations of the cracks are consistent with local tectonics,
which shows a SW-NE weakness direction. The LP events appear to be a response
to the lava fountain occurring on the 10th of May, 2008 as opposed to the flank
lava flow.