In financial markets, the information that traders have about an asset is
reflected in its price. The arrival of new information then leads to price
changes. The `information-based framework' of Brody, Hughston and Macrina (BHM)
isolates the emergence of information, and examines its role as a driver of
price dynamics. This approach has led to the development of new models that
capture a broad range of price behaviour. This thesis extends the work of BHM
by introducing a wider class of processes for the generation of the market
filtration. In the BHM framework, each asset is associated with a collection of
random cash flows. The asset price is the sum of the discounted expectations of
the cash flows. Expectations are taken with respect (i) an appropriate measure,
and (ii) the filtration generated by a set of so-called information processes
that carry noisy or imperfect market information about the cash flows. To model
the flow of information, we introduce a class of processes termed L\'evy random
bridges (LRBs), generalising the Brownian and gamma information processes of
BHM. Conditioned on its terminal value, an LRB is identical in law to a L\'evy
bridge. We consider in detail the case where the asset generates a single cash
flow $X_T$ at a fixed date $T$. The flow of information about $X_T$ is modelled
by an LRB with random terminal value $X_T$. An explicit expression for the
price process is found by working out the discounted conditional expectation of
$X_T$ with respect to the natural filtration of the LRB. New models are
constructed using information processes related to the Poisson process, the
Cauchy process, the stable-1/2 subordinator, the variance-gamma process, and
the normal inverse-Gaussian process. These are applied to the valuation of
credit-risky bonds, vanilla and exotic options, and non-life insurance
liabilities.