The deterministic channel model for wireless relay networks proposed by
Avestimehr, Diggavi and Tse `07 has captured the broadcast and inference nature
of wireless communications and has been widely used in approximating the
capacity of wireless relay networks. The contributors generalized the max-flow
min-cut theorem to the linear deterministic wireless relay networks and
characterized the unicast capacity of such deterministic network as the minimum
rank of all the binary adjacency matrices describing source-destination cuts
whose number grows exponentially with the size of the network. In this paper,
we developed a fast algorithm for finding the unicast capacity of a linear
deterministic wireless relay network by finding the maximum number of linearly
independent paths using the idea of path augmentation. We developed a modified
depth-first search algorithm tailored for the linear deterministic relay
networks for finding linearly independent paths whose total number proved to
equal the unicast capacity of the underlying network. The result of our
algorithm suggests a capacity-achieving transmission strategy with one-bit
length linear encoding at the relay nodes in the concerned linear deterministic
wireless relay network. The correctness of our algorithm for universal cases is
given by our proof in the paper. Moreover, our algorithm has a computational
complexity bounded by $O(|{\cal{V}}_x|\cdot C^4+d\cdot |{\cal{V}}_x|\cdot C^3)$
which shows a significant improvement over the previous results for solving the
same problem by Amaudruz and Fragouli (whose complexity is bounded by $O(M\cdot
|{\cal{E}}|\cdot C^5)$ with $M\geq d$ and $|{\cal{E}}|\geq|{\cal{V}}_x|$) and
by Yazdi and Savari (whose complexity is bounded by $O(L^8\cdot M^{12}\cdot
h_0^3+L\cdot M^6\cdot C\cdot h_0^4)$ with $h_0\geq C$).