In probability density function (PDF) methods a transport equation is solved
numerically to compute the time and space dependent probability distribution of
several flow variables in a turbulent flow. The joint PDF of the velocity
components contains information on all one-point one-time statistics of the
turbulent velocity field, including the mean, the Reynolds stresses and
higher-order statistics. We developed a series of numerical algorithms to model
the joint PDF of turbulent velocity, frequency and scalar compositions for
high-Reynolds-number incompressible flows in complex geometries using
unstructured grids. Advection, viscous diffusion and chemical reaction appear
in closed form in the PDF formulation, thus require no closure hypotheses. The
generalized Langevin model (GLM) is combined with an elliptic relaxation
technique to represent the non-local effect of walls on the pressure
redistribution and anisotropic dissipation of turbulent kinetic energy. The
governing system of equations is solved fully in the Lagrangian framework
employing a large number of particles representing a finite sample of all fluid
particles. Eulerian statistics are extracted at gridpoints of the unstructured
mesh. Compared to other particle-in-cell approaches for the PDF equations, this
methodology is non-hybrid, thus the computed fields remain fully consistent
without requiring any specific treatment. Two testcases demonstrate the
applicability of the algorithm: a fully developed turbulent channel flow and
the classical cavity flow both with scalars released from concentrated sources.