We examine the low angular momentum flow model for Sgr A* using
two-dimensional hydrodynamical calculations based on the parameters of the
specific angular momentum and total energy estimated in the recent analysis of
stellar wind of nearby stars around Sgr A*. The accretion flow with the
plausible parameters is non-stationary and an irregularly oscillating shock is
formed in the inner region of a few tens to a hundred and sixty Schwarzschild
radii. Due to the oscillating shock, the luminosity and the mass-outflow rate
are modulated by several per cent to a factor of 5 and a factor of 2-7,
respectively, on time-scales of an hour to ten days. The flows are highly
advected and the radiative efficiency of the accreting matter into radiation is
very low, 10^{-5}--$10^{-3}, and the input accretion rate of 4.0* 10^{-6} solar
mass/yr results in the observed luminosities -- 10^{36} erg/s of Sgr A* if a
two-temperature model and the synchrotron emission are taken into account. The
mass-outflow rate of the gas originating in the post-shock region increases
with the increasing input specific angular momentum and ranges from a few to 99
per cent of the input accreting matter, depending on the input angular
momentum. The oscillating shock is necessarily triggered if the specific
angular momentum and the specific energy belong to or are located just nearby
in the range of parameters responsible for a stationary shock in rotating
inviscid and adiabatic accretion flow. The time variability may be relevant to
the flare activity of Sgr A*.