We respond to the issues discussed by Farmer and Lillo (FL) related to our
proposed approach to understanding the origin of power-law distributions in
stock price fluctuations. First, we extend our previous analysis to 1000 US
stocks and perform a new estimation of market impact that accounts for
splitting of large orders and potential autocorrelations in the trade flow. Our
new analysis shows clearly that price impact and volume are related by a
square-root functional form of market impact for large volumes, in contrast to
the claim of FL that this relationship increases as a power law with a smaller
exponent. Since large orders are usually executed by splitting into smaller
size trades, procedures used by FL give a downward bias for this power law
exponent. Second, FL analyze 3 stocks traded on the London Stock Exchange, and
solely on this basis they claim that the distribution of transaction volumes do
not have a power-law tail for the London Stock Exchange. We perform new
empirical analysis on transaction data for the 262 largest stocks listed in the
London Stock Exchange, and find that the distribution of volume decays as a
power-law with an exponent $\approx 3/2$ -- in sharp contrast to FL's claim
that the distribution of transaction volume does not have a power-law tail. Our
exponent estimate of $\approx 3/2$ is consistent with our previous results from
the New York and Paris Stock Exchanges. We conclude that the available
empirical evidence is consistent with our hypothesis on the origin of power-law
fluctuations in stock prices.