A probabilistic framework is introduced that represents stylized banking
networks and aims to predict the size of contagion events. In contrast to
previous work on random financial networks, which assumes independent
connections between banks, the possibility of disassortative edge probabilities
(an above average tendency for small banks to link to large banks) is
explicitly incorporated. We give a probabilistic analysis of the default
cascade triggered by shocking the network. We find that the cascade can be
understood as an explicit iterated mapping on a set of edge probabilities that
converges to a fixed point. A cascade condition is derived that characterizes
whether or not an infinitesimal shock to the network can grow to a finite size
cascade, in analogy to the basic reproduction number $R_0$ in epidemic
modeling. It provides an easily computed measure of the systemic risk inherent
in a given banking network topology. An analytic formula is given for the
frequency of global cascades, derived from percolation theory on the random
network. Two simple examples are used to demonstrate that edge-assortativity
can have a strong effect on the level of systemic risk as measured by the
cascade condition. Although the analytical methods are derived for infinite
networks, large-scale Monte Carlo simulations are presented that demonstrate
the applicability of the results to finite-sized networks. Finally, we propose
a simple graph theoretic quantity, which we call "graph-assortativity", that
seems to best capture systemic risk.