Locally adaptive differential frames (gauge frames) are a well-known
effective tool in image analysis, used in differential invariants and
PDE-flows. However, at complex structures such as crossings or junctions, these
frames are not well-defined. Therefore, we generalize the notion of gauge
frames on images to gauge frames on data representations $U:\mathbb{R}^{d}
\rtimes S^{d-1} \to \mathbb{C}$ defined on the extended space of positions and
orientations, embedded as a Lie group quotient in the roto-translation group
SE(d), d=2,3. This allows for multiple well-defined frames per position, one
for each orientation. We compute these frames via local exponential curve fits
in the extended data representations in SE(d). These curve fits minimize first
or second order variational problems which are solved by spectral decomposition
of, respectively, a structure tensor or Hessian defined on SE(d). We include
these gauge frames in crossing preserving PDE-flows and differential invariants
acting on extended data representation U, and we show many improvements over
their counterparts acting on the image domain. Furthermore, we show advantages
of including gauge frames over the standard frame of left-invariant vector
fields on SE(d). Applications include crossing-preserving vesselness filtering
and improved segmentations of the vascular tree in retinal images, and new 3D
extensions of coherence-enhancing diffusion via invertible orientation scores.
ving vesselness filtering and improved segmentations of the vascular tree in
retinal images, and new 3D extensions of coherence-enhancing diffusion via
invertible orientation scores.