This is Part I of a two-part paper series that studies the use of the
proportional fairness (PF) utility function as the basis for capacity
allocation and scheduling in multi-channel multi-rate wireless networks. The
contributions of Part I are threefold. (i) First, we lay down the theoretical
foundation for PF. Specifically, we present the fundamental properties and
physical/economic interpretation of PF. We show by general mathematical
arguments that PF leads to equal airtime allocation to users for the
single-channel case; and equal equivalent airtime allocation to users for the
multi-channel case, where the equivalent airtime enjoyed by a user is a
weighted sum of the airtimes enjoyed by the user on all channels, with the
weight of a channel being the price or value of that channel. We also establish
the Pareto efficiency of PF solutions. (ii) Second, we derive characteristics
of PF solutions that are useful for the construction of PF-optimization
algorithms. We present several PF-optimization algorithms, including a fast
algorithm that is amenable to parallel implementation. (iii) Third, we study
the use of PF utility for capacity allocation in large-scale WiFi networks
consisting of many adjacent wireless LANs. We find that the PF solution
simultaneously achieves higher system throughput, better fairness, and lower
outage probability with respect to the default solution given by today's 802.11
commercial products. Part II of this paper series extends our investigation to
the time-varying-channel case in which the data rates enjoyed by users over the
channels vary dynamically over time