In many complex systems the interactions among the elementary components can
be of qualitatively different nature. Such systems are therefore naturally
described and represented in terms of multiplex or multi-layer networks, i.e.
networks where each layer stands for a different type of interaction between
the same set of nodes. There is today a growing interest in understanding when
and why a description in terms of a multiplex network is necessary and more
informative than a single-layer projection. Here, we contribute to this debate
by presenting a comprehensive study of correlations in multiplex networks.
Correlations in node properties, especially degree-degree correlations, have
been thoroughly studied in single-layer networks. Here we extend this idea to
investigate and characterize correlations between the different layers of a
multiplex network. These correlations are intrinsically multiplex, and we first
study them empirically by constructing and analyzing various multiplex networks
from the real-world. With such a purpose we introduce different measures to
characterize correlations in the activity of the nodes and in their degree at
the various layers, and between activities and degrees. We show that real-world
networks exhibit indeed non-trivial multiplex correlations. For instance, there
are some cases where two layers of the same multiplex network are positively
correlated in terms of node degrees, while other two layers are negatively
correlated. We then focus on constructing synthetic multiplex networks and we
propose a series of models to reproduce the correlations observed empirically
and/or to assess their relevance.