We study a multi-player one-round game termed Stackelberg Network Pricing
Game, in which a leader can set prices for a subset of $m$ priceable edges in a
graph. The other edges have a fixed cost. Based on the leader's decision one or
more followers optimize a polynomial-time solvable combinatorial minimization
problem and choose a minimum cost solution satisfying their requirements based
on the fixed costs and the leader's prices. The leader receives as revenue the
total amount of prices paid by the followers for priceable edges in their
solutions, and the problem is to find revenue maximizing prices. Our model
extends several known pricing problems, including single-minded and unit-demand
pricing, as well as Stackelberg pricing for certain follower problems like
shortest path or minimum spanning tree. Our first main result is a tight
analysis of a single-price algorithm for the single follower game, which
provides a $(1+\epsilon) \log m$-approximation for any $\epsilon >0$. This can
be extended to provide a $(1+\epsilon)(\log k + \log m)$-approximation for the
general problem and $k$ followers. The latter result is essentially best
possible, as the problem is shown to be hard to approximate within
$\mathcal{O(\log^\epsilon k + \log^\epsilon m)$. If followers have demands, the
single-price algorithm provides a $(1+\epsilon)m^2$-approximation, and the
problem is hard to approximate within $\mathcal{O(m^\epsilon)$ for some
$\epsilon >0$. Our second main result is a polynomial time algorithm for
revenue maximization in the special case of Stackelberg bipartite vertex cover,
which is based on non-trivial max-flow and LP-duality techniques. Our results
can be extended to provide constant-factor approximations for any constant
number of followers.