A Chandra observation of the intermediate luminosity (M_B=-20) elliptical
galaxy NGC 3379 resolves 75% of the X-ray emission within the central 5kpc into
point sources. Spectral analysis of the remaining unresolved emission within
the central 770pc indicates that 90% of the emission probably arises from
undetected point sources, while 10% arises from thermal emission from kT=0.6keV
gas. Assuming a uniform density distribution in the central region of the
galaxy gives a gas mass of 5.0e5 Mo.Such a small amount of gas can be supplied
by stellar mass loss in only 1.0e7 years. Thus, the gas must be accreting into
the central supermassive black hole at a very low radiative efficiency as in
the ADAF or RIAF models, or is being expelled in a galactic wind driven by the
same AGN feedback mechanism as that observed in cluster cooling flows. If the
gas is being expelled in an AGN driven wind, then the ratio of mechanical to
radio power of the AGN must be 1.0e4, which is comparable to that measured in
cluster cooling flows which have recently been perturbed by radio outbursts.
The brightest point source in NGC 3379 is located 360pc from the central AGN
with a peak luminosity of 3.5e39 ergs/s, which places it in the class of
ultra-luminous X-ray point sources (ULX). Analysis of an archival ROSAT HRI
observation of NGC 3379 shows that this source was at a comparable luminosity 5
years prior to the Chandra observation. During the Chandra observation, the
source intensity smoothly varies by a factor of two with the suggestion of an
8-10 hour period.