Recent observations of Seyfert 1 AGN with Chandra, XMM-Newton and Suzaku
revealed broad iron K_alpha emission lines, some relativistically blurred. For
galactic black hole X-ray binaries XMM-Newton spectra during hard state also
reveal the presence of a relativistic iron emission line and a thermal
component, interpreted as an indication for a weak inner cool accretion disk
underneath a hot corona. These thermal components were found after the
transition from soft to hard spectral state and can be understood as sustained
by re-condensation of gas from an advection-dominated flow (ADAF) onto the
disk. In view of the similarity of accretion flows around stellar mass and
supermassive black holes we discuss whether the broad iron emission lines in
Seyfert 1 AGN can be understood as arising from a similar accretion flow
geometry. We derive Eddington-scaled accretion rates for Seyfert galaxies with
strong lines in samples of Miller (2007) and Nandra et al. (2007). For the
evaluation we use the observed X-ray luminosity, bolometric corrections and
black hole masses from literature, most values taken from Fabian and Vasudevan
(2009). Rates derived are less than 0.1 of the Eddington rate for more than
half of the sources. For 10^7 to 10^8 solar mass black holes in Seyfert 1 AGN
this limit corresponds to 0.01 to 0.2 solar masses per year. Our investigation
shows that for quite a number of Seyfert AGN in hard spectral state iron
emission lines can arise from an inner weak disk surrounded by an ADAF as
predicted by the re-condensation model. Some of the remaining sources with
higher accretion rates may be in a spectral state comparable to the "very high"
state of LMXBs. (abridged)