Many real-world networks describe systems in which interactions decay with
the distance between nodes. Examples include systems constrained in real space
such as transportation and communication networks, as well as systems
constrained in abstract spaces such as multivariate biological or economic
datasets and models of social networks. These networks often display network
motifs: subgraphs that recur in the network much more often than in randomized
networks. To understand the origin of the network motifs in these networks, it
is important to study the subgraphs and network motifs that arise solely from
geometric constraints. To address this, we analyze geometric network models, in
which nodes are arranged on a lattice and edges are formed with a probability
that decays with the distance between nodes. We present analytical solutions
for the numbers of all 3 and 4-node subgraphs, in both directed and
non-directed geometric networks. We also analyze geometric networks with
arbitrary degree sequences, and models with a field that biases for directed
edges in one direction. Scaling rules for scaling of subgraph numbers with
system size, lattice dimension and interaction range are given. Several
invariant measures are found, such as the ratio of feedback and feed-forward
loops, which do not depend on system size, dimension or connectivity function.
We find that network motifs in many real-world networks, including social
networks and neuronal networks, are not captured solely by these geometric
models. This is in line with recent evidence that biological network motifs
were selected as basic circuit elements with defined information-processing
functions.