Motivated by the importance of geometric information in real systems, a new
model for long-range correlated percolation in link-adding networks is proposed
with the connecting probability decaying with a power-law of the distance on
the two-dimensional(2D) plane. By overlapping it with Achlioptas process, it
serves as a gravity model which can be tuned to facilitate or inhibit the
network percolation in a generic view, cover a broad range of thresholds.
Moreover, it yields a set of new scaling relations. In the present work, we
develop an approach to determine critical points for them by simulating the
temporal evolutions of type-I, type-II and type-III links(chosen from both
inter-cluster links, an intra-cluster link compared with an inter-cluster one,
and both intra-cluster ones, respectively) and corresponding average lengths.
Numerical results have revealed objective competition between fractions,
average lengths of three types of links, verified the balance happened at
critical points. The variation of decay exponents $a$ or transmission radius
$R$ always shifts the temporal pace of the evolution, while the steady average
lengths and the fractions of links always keep unchanged just as the values in
Achlioptas process. Strategy with maximum gravity can keep steady average
length, while that with minimum one can surpass it. Without the confinement of
transmission range, $\bar{l} \to \infty$ in thermodynamic limit, while
$\bar{l}$ does not when with it. However, both mechanisms support critical
points. In two-dimensional free space, the relevance of correlated percolation
in link-adding process is verified by validation of new scaling relations with
various exponent $a$, which violates the scaling law of Weinrib's.