We study an incremental redundancy (IR) cooperative coding scheme for
wireless networks. To exploit the spatial diversity benefit we propose a
cluster-based collaborating strategy for a quasi-static Rayleigh fading channel
model and based on a network geometric distance profile. Our scheme enhances
the network performance by embedding an IR cooperative coding scheme into an
existing noncooperative route. More precisely, for each hop, we form a
collaborating cluster of M-1 nodes between the (hop) sender and the (hop)
destination. The transmitted message is encoded using a mother code and
partitioned into M blocks corresponding to the each of M slots. In the first
slot, the (hop) sender broadcasts its information by transmitting the first
block, and its helpers attempt to relay this message. In the remaining slots,
the each of left-over M-1 blocks is sent either through a helper which has
successfully decoded the message or directly by the (hop) sender where a
dynamic schedule is based on the ACK-based feedback from the cluster. By
employing powerful good codes (e.g., turbo codes, LDPC codes, and raptor codes)
whose performance is characterized by a threshold behavior, our approach
improves the reliability of a multi-hop routing through not only cooperation
diversity benefit but also a coding advantage. The study of the diversity and
the coding gain of the proposed scheme is based on a new simple threshold bound
on the frame-error rate (FER) of maximum likelihood decoding. A average FER
upper bound and its asymptotic (in large SNR) version are derived as a function
of the average fading channel SNRs and the code threshold.