Multi-stage sensing is a novel concept that refers to a general class of
spectrum sensing algorithms that divide the sensing process into a number of
sequential stages. The number of sensing stages and the sensing technique per
stage can be used to optimize performance with respect to secondary user
throughput and the collision probability between primary and secondary users.
So far, the impact of multi-stage sensing on network throughput and collision
probability for a realistic network model is relatively unexplored. Therefore,
we present the first analytical framework which enables performance evaluation
of different multi-channel multi-stage spectrum sensing algorithms for
Opportunistic Spectrum Access networks. The contribution of our work lies in
studying the effect of the following parameters on performance: number of
sensing stages, physical layer sensing techniques and durations per each stage,
single and parallel channel sensing and access, number of available channels,
primary and secondary user traffic, buffering of incoming secondary user
traffic, as well as MAC layer sensing algorithms. Analyzed performance metrics
include the average secondary user throughput and the average collision
probability between primary and secondary users. Our results show that when the
probability of primary user mis-detection is constrained, the performance of
multi-stage sensing is, in most cases, superior to the single stage sensing
counterpart. Besides, prolonged channel observation at the first stage of
sensing decreases the collision probability considerably, while keeping the
throughput at an acceptable level. Finally, in realistic primary user traffic
scenarios, using two stages of sensing provides a good balance between
secondary users throughput and collision probability while meeting successful
detection constraints subjected by Opportunistic Spectrum Access communication.