Physical-layer Network Coding (PNC) can significantly improve the throughput
of wireless two way relay channel (TWRC) by allowing the two end nodes to
transmit messages to the relay simultaneously. To achieve reliable
communication, channel coding could be applied on top of PNC. This paper
investigates link-by-link channel-coded PNC, in which a critical process at the
relay is to transform the superimposed channel-coded packets received from the
two end nodes plus noise, Y3=X1+X2+W3, to the network-coded combination of the
source packets, S1 XOR S2 . This is in distinct to the traditional
multiple-access problem, in which the goal is to obtain S1 and S2 separately.
The transformation from Y3 to (S1 XOR S2) is referred to as the
Channel-decoding-Network-Coding process (CNC) in that it involves both channel
decoding and network coding operations. A contribution of this paper is the
insight that in designing CNC, we should first (i) channel-decode Y3 to the
superimposed source symbols S1+S2 before (ii) transforming S1+S2 to the
network-coded packets (S1 XOR S2) . Compared with previously proposed
strategies for CNC, this strategy reduces the channel-coding network-coding
mismatch. It is not obvious, however, that an efficient decoder for step (i)
exists. A second contribution of this paper is to provide an explicit
construction of such a decoder based on the use of the Repeat Accumulate (RA)
code. Specifically, we redesign the belief propagation algorithm of the RA code
for traditional point-to-point channel to suit the need of the PNC
multiple-access channel. Simulation results show that our new scheme
outperforms the previously proposed schemes significantly in terms of BER
without added complexity.