We explore the suggestions by Uzdensky (2007) and Cassak et al. (2008) that
coronal loops heated by magnetic reconnection should self-organize to a state
of marginal collisionality. We discuss their model of coronal loop dynamics
with a one-dimensional hydrodynamic calculation. We assume that many current
sheets are present, with a distribution of thicknesses, but that only current
sheets thinner than the ion skin depth can rapidly reconnect. This assumption
naturally causes a density dependent heating rate which is actively regulated
by the plasma. We report 9 numerical simulation results of coronal loop
hydrodynamics in which the absolute values of the heating rates are different
but their density dependences are the same. We find two regimes of behavior,
depending on the amplitude of the heating rate. In the case that the amplitude
of heating is below a threshold value, the loop is in stable equilibrium.
Typically the upper and less dense part of coronal loop is collisionlessly
heated and conductively cooled. When the amplitude of heating is above the
threshold, the conductive flux to the lower atmosphere required to balance
collisionless heating drives an evaporative flow which quenches fast
reconnection, ultimately cooling and draining the loop until the cycle begins
again. The key elements of this cycle are gravity and the density dependence of
the heating function. Some additional factors are present, including pressure
driven flows from the loop top, which carry a large enthalpy flux and play an
important role in reducing the density. We find that on average the density of
the system is close to the marginally collisionless value.