Exponential backoff (EB) is a widely adopted collision resolution mechanism
in many popular random-access networks including Ethernet and wireless LAN
(WLAN). The prominence of EB is primarily attributed to its asymptotic
throughput stability, which ensures a non-zero throughput even when the number
of users in the network goes to infinity. Recent studies, however, show that EB
is fundamentally unsuitable for applications that are sensitive to large delay
and delay jitters, as it induces divergent second- and higher-order moments of
medium access delay. Essentially, the medium access delay follows a power law
distribution, a subclass of heavy-tailed distribution. To understand and
alleviate the issue, this paper systematically analyzes the tail delay
distribution of general backoff functions, with EB being a special case. In
particular, we establish a tradeoff between the tail decaying rate of medium
access delay distribution and the stability of throughput. To be more specific,
convergent delay moments are attainable only when the backoff functions $g(k)$
grows slower than exponential functions, i.e., when $g(k)\in o(r^k)$ for all
$r>1$. On the other hand, non-zero asymptotic throughput is attainable only
when backoff functions grow at least as fast as an exponential function, i.e.,
$g(k)\in\Omega(r^k)$ for some $r>1$. This implies that bounded delay moments
and stable throughput cannot be achieved at the same time. For practical
implementation, we show that polynomial backoff (PB), where $g(k)$ is a
polynomial that grows slower than exponential functions, obtains finite delay
moments and good throughput performance at the same time within a practical
range of user population. This makes PB a better alternative than EB for
multimedia applications with stringent delay requirements.