The relativistic wind of obliquely-rotating pulsars consists of toroidal
stripes of opposite magnetic field polarity, separated by current sheets of hot
plasma. By means of two- and three-dimensional particle-in-cell simulations, we
investigate particle acceleration and magnetic field dissipation at the
termination shock of a relativistic striped wind. At the shock, the flow
compresses and the alternating fields annihilate by driven magnetic
reconnection. Irrespective of the stripe wavelength "lambda" or the wind
magnetization "sigma" (in the regime sigma>>1 of magnetically-dominated flows),
shock-driven reconnection transfers all the magnetic energy of alternating
fields to the particles, whose average Lorentz factor increases by a factor of
sigma with respect to the pre-shock value. The shape of the post-shock spectrum
depends primarily on the ratio lambda/(r_L*sigma), where r_L is the
relativistic Larmor radius in the wind. The spectrum becomes broader as the
value of lambda/(r_L*sigma) increases, passing from a relativistic Maxwellian
to a flat power-law tail with slope around -1.5, populated by particles
accelerated by the reconnection electric field. Close to the equatorial plane
of the wind, where the stripes are symmetric, the highest energy particles
resulting from magnetic reconnection can escape ahead of the shock, and be
injected into a Fermi-like acceleration process. In the post-shock spectrum,
they populate a power-law tail with slope around -2.5, that extends beyond the
flat component produced by reconnection. Our study suggests that the spectral
break between the radio and the optical band in Pulsar Wind Nebulae can be a
natural consequence of particle acceleration at the termination shock of
striped pulsar winds.