Data Centers (DCs) are required to be scalable to large data sets so as to
accommodate ever increasing demands of resource-limited embedded and mobile
devices. Thanks to the availability of recent high data rate millimeter-wave
frequency spectrum such as 60GHz and due to the favorable attributes of this
technology, wireless DC (WDC) exhibits the potentials of being a promising
solution especially for small to medium scale DCs. This paper investigates the
problem of throughput scalability of WDCs using the established theory of the
asymptotic throughput of wireless multi-hop networks that are primarily
proposed for homogeneous traffic conditions. The rate-heterogeneous traffic
distribution of a data center however, requires the asymptotic heterogeneous
throughput knowledge of a wireless network in order to study the performance
and feasibility of WDCs for practical purposes. To answer these questions this
paper presents a lower bound for the throughput scalability of a multi-hop
rate-heterogeneous network when traffic generation rates of all nodes are
similar, except one node. We demonstrate that the throughput scalability of
conventional multi-hopping and the spatial reuse of the above bi-rate network
is inefficient and henceforth develop a speculative 2-partitioning scheme that
improves the network throughput scaling potentials. A better lower bound of the
throughput is then obtained. Finally, we obtain the throughput scaling of an
i.i.d. rate-heterogeneous network and obtain its lower bound. Again we propose
a speculative 2-partitioning scheme to achieve a network with higher throughput
in terms of improved lower bound. All of the obtained results have been
verified using simulation experiments.