The optimal power-flow problem (OPF) has played a key role in the planning
and operation of power systems. Due to the non-linear nature of the AC
power-flow equations, the OPF problem is known to be non-convex, therefore hard
to solve. Most proposed methods for solving the OPF rely on approximations that
render the problem convex, but that may yield inexact solutions. Recently,
Farivar and Low proposed a method that is claimed to be exact for radial
distribution systems, despite no apparent approximations. In our work, we show
that it is, in fact, not exact. On one hand, there is a misinterpretation of
the physical network model related to the ampacity constraint of the lines'
current flows. On the other hand, the proof of the exactness of the proposed
relaxation requires unrealistic assumptions related to the unboundedness of
specific control variables. We also show that the extension of this approach to
account for exact line models might provide physically infeasible solutions.
Recently, several contributions have proposed OPF algorithms that rely on the
use of the alternating-direction method of multipliers (ADMM). However, as we
show in this work, there are cases for which the ADMM-based solution of the
non-relaxed OPF problem fails to converge. To overcome the aforementioned
limitations, we propose an algorithm for the solution of a non-approximated,
non-convex OPF problem in radial distribution systems that is based on the
method of multipliers, and on a primal decomposition of the OPF. This work is
divided in two parts. In Part I, we specifically discuss the limitations of BFM
and ADMM to solve the OPF problem. In Part II, we provide a centralized version
and a distributed asynchronous version of the proposed OPF algorithm and we
evaluate its performances using both small-scale electrical networks, as well
as a modified IEEE 13-node test feeder.