Disasters lead to devastating structural damage not only to buildings and
transport infrastructure, but also to other critical infrastructure, such as
the power grid and communication backbones. Following such an event, the
availability of minimal communication services is however crucial to allow
efficient and coordinated disaster response, to enable timely public
information, or to provide individuals in need with a default mechanism to post
emergency messages. The Internet of Things consists in the massive deployment
of heterogeneous devices, most of which battery-powered, and interconnected via
wireless network interfaces. Typical IoT communication architectures enables
such IoT devices to not only connect to the communication backbone (i.e. the
Internet) using an infrastructure-based wireless network paradigm, but also to
communicate with one another autonomously, without the help of any
infrastructure, using a spontaneous wireless network paradigm. In this paper,
we argue that the vast deployment of IoT-enabled devices could bring benefits
in terms of data network resilience in face of disaster. Leveraging their
spontaneous wireless networking capabilities, IoT devices could enable minimal
communication services (e.g. emergency micro-message delivery) while the
conventional communication infrastructure is out of service. We identify the
main challenges that must be addressed in order to realize this potential in
practice. These challenges concern various technical aspects, including
physical connectivity requirements, network protocol stack enhancements, data
traffic prioritization schemes, as well as social and political aspects.