Millimeter wave (mmW) bands between 30 and 300 GHz have attracted
considerable attention for next-generation cellular networks due to vast
quantities of available spectrum and the possibility of very high-dimensional
antenna ar-rays. However, a key issue in these systems is range: mmW signals
are extremely vulnerable to shadowing and poor high-frequency propagation.
Multi-hop relaying is therefore a natural technology for such systems to
improve cell range and cell edge rates without the addition of wired access
points. This paper studies the problem of scheduling for a simple
infrastructure cellular relay system where communication between wired base
stations and User Equipment follow a hierarchical tree structure through fixed
relay nodes. Such a systems builds naturally on existing cellular mmW backhaul
by adding mmW in the access links. A key feature of the proposed system is that
TDD duplexing selections can be made on a link-by-link basis due to directional
isolation from other links. We devise an efficient, greedy algorithm for
centralized scheduling that maximizes network utility by jointly optimizing the
duplexing schedule and resources allocation for dense, relay-enhanced OFDMA/TDD
mmW networks. The proposed algorithm can dynamically adapt to loading, channel
conditions and traffic demands. Significant throughput gains and improved
resource utilization offered by our algorithm over the static,
globally-synchronized TDD patterns are demonstrated through simulations based
on empirically-derived channel models at 28 GHz.