Constantly growing demands of high productivity and security of computer
systems and computer networks call the interest of specialists in the
environment of construction of optimum topologies of computer mediums. In
earliest phases of design, the study of the topological influence of the
processes that happen in computer systems and computer networks allows to
obtain useful information which possesses a significant value in the subsequent
design. It has always been tried to represent the different computer network
topologies using appropriate graph models. Graphs have huge contributions
towards the performance improvement factor of a network. Some major
contributors are de-Bruijn, Hypercube, Mesh and Pascal. They had been studied a
lot and different new features were always a part of research outcome. As per
the definition of interconnection network it is equivalent that a suitable
graph can represent the physical and logical layout very efficiently. In this
present study Pascal graph is researched again and a new characteristics has
been discovered. From the perspective of network topologies Pascal graph and
its properties were first studied more than two decades back. Since then, a
numerous graph models have emerged with potentials to be used as network
topologies. This new property is guaranteed to make an everlasting mark towards
the reliability of this graph to be used as a substantial contributor as a
computer network topology. This shows its credentials over so many other
topologies. This study reviews the characteristics of the Pascal graph and the
new property is established using appropriate algorithm and the results.