Ecological systems are governed by complex interactions which are mainly
nonlinear. In order to capture this complexity and nonlinearity, statistical
models recently gained popularity. However, although these models are commonly
applied in ecology, there are no studies to date aiming to assess the
applicability and performance. We provide an overview for nature of the wide
range of the data sets and predictive variables, from both aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems with different scales of time-dependent dynamics, and
the applicability and robustness of predictive modeling methods on such data
sets by comparing different statistical modeling approaches. The methods
considered k-NN, LDA, QDA, generalized linear models (GLM) feedforward
multilayer backpropagation networks and pseudo-supervised network ARTMAP. For
ecosystems involving time-dependent dynamics and periodicities whose frequency
are possibly less than the time scale of the data considered, GLM and
connectionist neural network models appear to be most suitable and robust,
provided that a predictive variable reflecting these time-dependent dynamics
included in the model either implicitly or explicitly. For spatial data, which
does not include any time-dependence comparable to the time scale covered by
the data, on the other hand, neighborhood based methods such as k-NN and ARTMAP
proved to be more robust than other methods considered in this study. In
addition, for predictive modeling purposes, first a suitable, computationally
inexpensive method should be applied to the problem at hand a good predictive
performance of which would render the computational cost and efforts associated
with complex variants unnecessary.