A lot of previous work showed that the sectional mean first-passage time
(SMFPT), i.e., the average of mean first-passage time (MFPT) for random walks
to a given hub node (node with maximum degree) averaged over all starting
points in scale-free small-world networks exhibits a sublinear or linear
dependence on network order $N$ (number of nodes), which indicates that hub
nodes are very efficient in receiving information if one looks upon the random
walker as an information messenger. Thus far, the efficiency of a hub node
sending information on scale-free small-world networks has not been addressed
yet. In this paper, we study random walks on the class of Koch networks with
scale-free behavior and small-world effect. We derive some basic properties for
random walks on the Koch network family, based on which we calculate
analytically the partial mean first-passage time (PMFPT) defined as the average
of MFPTs from a hub node to all other nodes, excluding the hub itself. The
obtained closed-form expression displays that in large networks the PMFPT grows
with network order as $N \ln N$, which is larger than the linear scaling of
SMFPT to the hub from other nodes. On the other hand, we also address the case
with the information sender distributed uniformly among the Koch networks, and
derive analytically the entire mean first-passage time (EMFPT), namely, the
average of MFPTs between all couples of nodes, the leading scaling of which is
identical to that of PMFPT. From the obtained results, we present that although
hub nodes are more efficient for receiving information than other nodes, they
display a qualitatively similar speed for sending information as non-hub nodes.
Moreover, we show that the location of information sender has little effect on
the transmission efficiency. The present findings are helpful for better
understanding random walks performed on scale-free small-world networks.