In wireless networks, the presence of interference among wireless links in-
troduces dependencies among flows that do not share a single link or node. As a
result, when designing a resource allocation scheme, be it a medium access
scheduler or a flow rate controller, one needs to consider the interdependence
among nodes within interference range of each other. Specifically, control
plane information needs to reach nearby nodes which often lie outside the
communi- cation range, but within the interference range of a node of interest.
But how can one communicate control plane information well beyond the existing
communication range? To address this fundamental need we introduce tag
spotting. Tag spotting refers to a communication system which allows re- liable
control data transmission at SNR values as low as 0 dB. It does this by
employing a number of signal encoding techniques including adding redundancy to
multitone modulation, shaping the spectrum to reduce inter-carrier interfer-
ence, and the use of algebraic coding. Making use of a detection theory-based
model we analyze the performance achievable by our modulation as well as the
trade-off between the rate of the information transmitted and the likelihood of
error. Using real-world experiments on an OFDM system built with software
radios, we show that we can transmit data at the target SNR value of 0 dB with
a 6% overhead; that is, 6% of our packet is used for our low-SNR decodable tags
(which carry up to a couple of bytes of data in our testbed), while the remain-
ing 94% is used for traditional header and payload data. We also demonstrate
via simulations how tag spotting can be used in implementing fair and efficient
rate control and scheduling schemes.