Active gels are a class of biologically-relevant material containing embedded
agents that spontaneously generate forces acting on a sparse filament network.
In vitro experiments of protein filaments and molecular motors have revealed a
range of non- equilibrium pattern formation resulting from motor motion along
filament tracks, and there are a number of hydrodynamic models purporting to
describe such systems. Here we present results of extensive simulations
designed to elucidate the microscopic basis underpinning macroscopic flow in
active gels. Our numerical scheme includes thermal fluctuations in filament
positions, excluded volume interactions, and filament elasticity in the form of
bending and stretching modes. Motors are represented individually as bipolar
springs governed by rate-based rules for attachment, detachment and
unidirectional motion of motor heads along the filament contour. We
systematically vary motor density and speed, and uncover parameter regions
corresponding to unusual statics and dynamics which overlap but do not
coincide. The anomalous statics arise at high motor densities and take the form
of end-bound localized filament bundles for rapid motors, and extended clusters
exhibiting enhanced small-wavenumber density fluctuations and power-law
cluster-size distributions for slow, processive motors. Anomalous dynamics
arise for slow, processive motors over a range of motor densities, and are most
evident as superdiffusive mass transport, which we argue is the consequence of
a form of effective self-propulsion resulting from the polar coupling between
motors and filaments.