Modeling relations between individuals is a classical question in social
sciences and clustering individuals according to the observed patterns of
interactions allows to uncover a latent structure in the data. Stochastic block
model (SBM) is a popular approach for grouping the individuals with respect to
their social comportment. When several relationships of various types can occur
jointly between the individuals, the data are represented by multiplex networks
where more than one edge can exist between the nodes. In this paper, we extend
the SBM to multiplex networks in order to obtain a clustering based on more
than one kind of relationship. We propose to estimate the parameters --such as
the marginal probabilities of assignment to groups (blocks) and the matrix of
probabilities of connections between groups-- through a variational
Expectation-Maximization procedure. Consistency of the estimates as well as
statistical properties of the model are obtained. The number of groups is
chosen thanks to the Integrated Completed Likelihood criteria, a penalized
likelihood criterion. Multiplex Stochastic Block Model arises in many
situations but our applied example is motivated by a network of French cancer
researchers. The two possible links (edges) between researchers are a direct
connection or a connection through their labs. Our results show strong
interactions between these two kinds of connections and the groups that are
obtained are discussed to emphasize the common features of researchers grouped
together.