A new method is developed to calculate the amplitude of the galactic warps
generated by a torque due to external forces. This takes into account that the
warp is produced as a reorientation of the different rings which constitute the
disc in order to compensate the differential precession generated by the
external force, yielding a uniform asymptotic precession for all rings.
  Application of this method to gravitational tidal forces in the Milky Way due
to the Magellanic Clouds leads to a very low amplitude of the warp. If the
force were due to an extragalactic magnetic field, its intensity would have to
be very high, to generate the observed warps. An alternative hypothesis is
explored: the accretion of the intergalactic medium over the disk. A cup-shaped
distortion is expected, due to the transmission of the linear momentum; but,
this effect is small and the predominant effect turns out to be the
transmission of angular momentum, i.e. a torque giving an integral-sign shape
warp. The torque produced by a flow of velocity ~100 km/s and baryon density
\~10^{-25} kg/m^3 is enough to generate the observed warps and this mechanism
offers quite a plausible explanation. First, because this order of accretion
rate is inferred from other processes observed in the Galaxy, notably its
chemical evolution. The inferred rate of infall of matter, ~1 solar-mass/yr, to
the Galactic disc that this theory predicts agrees with the quantitative
predictions of this chemical evolution resolving key issues, notably the
G-dwarf problem. Second, because the required density of the intergalactic
medium is within the range of values compatible with observation. By this
mechanism, we can explain the warp phenomenon in terms of intergalactic
accretion flows onto the disk of the galaxy.