Dunkel and Hilbert, "Consistent thermostatistics forbids negative absolute
temperatures," Nature Physics, {\bf 10}, 67 (2014), and Hilbert, H\"anggi, and
Dunkel, "Thermodynamic laws in isolated systems," Phys. Rev. E {\bf 90}, 062116
(2014) have presented an unusual view of thermodynamics that sets aside several
properties that have traditionally have been assumed to be true. Among other
features, their results do not satisfy the postulates of thermodynamics
originally proposed by Tisza and Callen. In their theory, differences in the
temperatures of two objects cannot determine the direction of heat flow when
they are brought into thermal contact. They deny that negative temperatures are
possible. We disagree with most of their assertions, and we present arguments
in favor of a more traditional interpretation of thermodynamics. We show
explicitly that it is possible to deduce the thermodynamic entropy for a
paramagnet along the lines of classical thermodynamics and that it agrees with
Boltzmann entropy in equilibrium. A Carnot engine with efficiency larger than
one is a matter of definition and is possible for inverted energy
distributions, regardless of whether negative temperatures are used in the
analysis. We elaborate on Penrose's argument that an adiabatic and reversible
process connecting systems with Hamiltonian $H$ to $-H$ is possible, thus
negative temperatures logically must exist. We give a demonstration that the
Boltzmann temperature determines the direction of heat flow while Gibbs
temperature does not, for sufficiently large systems.