In recent years, network analyses have been used to evaluate brain
reorganization following stroke. However, many studies have often focused on
single topological scales, leading to an incomplete model of how focal brain
lesions affect multiple network properties simultaneously and how changes on
smaller scales influence those on larger scales. In an EEG-based experiment on
the performance of hand motor imagery (MI) in 20 patients with unilateral
stroke, we observed that the anatomic lesion affects the functional brain
network on multiple levels. In the beta (13-30 Hz) frequency band, the MI of
the affected hand (Ahand) elicited a significantly lower smallworldness and
local efficiency (Eloc) versus the unaffected hand (Uhand). Notably, the
abnormal reduction in Eloc significantly depended on the increase in
interhemispheric connectivity, which was in turn determined primarily by the
rise in regional connectivity in the parieto-occipital sites of the affected
hemisphere. Further, in contrast to the Uhand MI, in which significantly high
connectivity was observed for the contralateral sensorimotor regions of the
unaffected hemisphere, the regions that increased in connection during the
Ahand MI lay in the frontal and parietal regions of the contralaterally
affected hemisphere. Finally, the overall sensorimotor function of our
patients, as measured by Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA) index, was significantly
predicted by the connectivity of their affected hemisphere. These results
increase our understanding of stroke-induced alterations in functional brain
networks.