Mechanical and sliding instabilities are the two processes which may lead to
breaking off events of large ice masses. Mechanical instabilities mainly affect
unbalanced cold hanging glaciers. For the latter case, a prediction could be
achieved based on data of surface velocities and seismic activity. The case of
sliding instabilities is more problematic. This phenomenon occurs on temperate
glacier tongues. Such instabilities are strongly affected by the subglacial
hydrology: melt water may cause (i) a lubrication of the bed and (ii) a
decrease of the effective pressure and consequently a decrease of basal
friction. Available data from Allalingletscher (Valais) indicate that the
glacier tongue experienced an active phase during 2-3 weeks with enhanced basal
motion in late summer in most years. In order to scrutinize in more detail the
processes governing the sliding instabilities, a numerical model developed to
investigate gravitational instabilities in heterogeneous media was applied to
Allalingletscher. This model enables to account for various geometric
configurations, interaction between sliding and tension cracking and water flow
at the bedrock. We could show that both a critical geometrical configuration of
the glacier tongue and the existence of a distributed drainage network were the
main causes of this catastrophic break-off. Moreover, the analysis of the
modeling results diagnose the phenomenon of recoupling of the glacier to its
bed as a potential new precursory sign announcing the final break-off. This
model casts a gleam of hope for a better understanding of the ultimate rupture
of such glacier sliding instabilities.