Dynamic spectrum access (DSA) enables secondary networks to find and
efficiently exploit spectrum opportunities. A key factor to design a DSA
network is the spectrum sensing algorithms for multiple channels with multiple
users. Multi-user cooperative channel sensing reduces the sensing time, and
thus it increases transmission throughput. However, in a multi-channel system,
the problem becomes more complex since the benefits of assigning users to sense
channels in parallel must also be considered. A sensing schedule, indicating to
each user the channel that it should sense at different sensing moments, must
be thus created to optimize system performance. In this paper, we formulate the
general sensing scheduling optimization problem and then propose several
sensing strategies to schedule the users according to network parameters with
homogeneous sensors. Later on we extend the results to heterogeneous sensors
and propose a robust scheduling design when we have traffic and channel
uncertainty. We propose three sensing strategies, and, within each one of them,
several solutions, striking a balance between throughput performance and
computational complexity, are proposed. In addition, we show that a sequential
channel sensing strategy is the one to be preferred when the sensing time is
small, the number of channels is large, and the number of users is small. For
all the other cases, a parallel channel sensing strategy is recommended in
terms of throughput performance. We also show that a proposed hybrid
sequential-parallel channel sensing strategy achieves the best performance in
all scenarios at the cost of extra memory and computation complexity.