Software-Defined Network (SDN) is expected to have a significant impact on
future networking. Although exciting progress has been made toward realizing
SDN, application of this new networking paradigm in the future Internet to
support end-to-end QoS provisioning faces some new challenges. The autonomous
network domains coexisting in the Internet and the diverse user applications
deployed upon the Internet call for a uniform Service Delivery Platform (SDP)
that enables high-level network abstraction and inter-domain collaboration for
end-to-end service provisioning. However, the currently available SDN
technologies lack effective mechanisms for supporting such a platform. In this
paper, we first present a SDP framework that applies the Network-as-a-Service
(NaaS) principle to provide network abstraction and orchestration for
end-to-end service provisioning in SDN-based future Internet. Then we focus our
study on two enabling technologies for such a SDP to achieve QoS guarantee;
namely a network abstraction model and an end-to-end resource allocation
scheme. Specifically we propose a general model for abstracting the service
capabilities offered by network domains and develop a technique for determining
the required amounts of bandwidth in network domains for end-to-end service
delivery with QoS guarantee. Both the analytical and numerical results obtained
in this paper indicate that the NaaS-based SDP not only simplifies SDN service
and resource management but also enhances bandwidth utilization for end-to-end
QoS provisioning.