We study effects of high-energy particles on the accretion flows onto a
supermassive black hole and luminosities of escaping particles such as protons,
neutrons, gamma-rays, and neutrinos. We formulate a one-dimensional model of
the two-component accretion flow consisting of thermal particles and
high-energy particles, supposing that some fraction of the released energy is
converted to the acceleration of the high-energy particles. The thermal
component is governed by fluid dynamics while the high-energy particles obey
the moment equations of the diffusion-convection equation. By solving the time
evolution of these equations, we obtain advection dominated flows as the steady
state solutions. Effects of the high-energy particles on the flow structures
turn out to be small even if the pressure of the high-energy particles
dominates over the thermal pressure. For a model in which the escaping protons
take away almost all the released energy, the high-energy particles have large
influence enough to make the flow have the Keplerian angular velocity at the
inner region. We calculate the luminosities of the escaping particles for these
steady solutions. The escaping particles can extract the energy from about
$10^{-4}\dot M c^2$ to $10^{-2}\dot M c^2$, where $\dot M$ is the mass
accretion rates. The luminosities of the escaping particles depend on the
parameters such as the injection Lorentz factors, the mass accretion rates, and
the diffusion coefficients. We also discuss some implications on the
relativistic jet production by the escaping particles.