We present the results from axisymmetric time-dependent HD calculations of
gas flows which are under the influence of gravity of a black hole in quasars.
We assume that the flows are non-rotating and exposed to quasar radiation. We
take into account X-ray heating and the radiation force due to electron
scattering and spectral lines. To compute the radiation field, we consider a
standard accretion disk as a source of UV photons and a spherical central
object as a source of X-rays. The gas temperature and ionization state in the
flow are calculated self-consistently from the photoionization and heating rate
of the central object. We find that for a 10e8 MSUN black hole with an
accretion luminosity of 0.6 of the Eddington luminosity the flow settles into a
steady state and has two components: (1) an equatorial inflow and (2) a bipolar
inflow/outflow with the outflow leaving the system along the disk rotational
axis. The inflow is a realization of a Bondi-like accretion flow. The second
component is an example of a non-radial accretion flow which becomes an outflow
once it is pushed close to the rotational axis where thermal expansion and the
radiation pressure accelerate it outward. Our main result is that the existence
of the above two flow components is robust to the outer boundary conditions and
the geometry and spectral energy distribution of the radiation field. However,
the flow properties are not robust. In particular, the outflow power and
collimation is higher for the radiation dominated by the UV/disk emission than
for the radiation dominated by the X-ray/central engine emission. Our most
intriguing result is that a very narrow outflow driven by radiation pressure on
lines can carry more energy and mass than a broad outflow driven by thermal
expansion.