We present calculations of r-process nucleosynthesis in neutrino-driven winds
from the nascent neutron stars of core-collapse supernovae. A full dynamical
reaction network for both the alpha-rich freezeout and the subsequent r-process
is employed. The physical properties of the neutrino-heated ejecta are deduced
from a general relativistic model in which spherical symmetry and steady flow
are assumed. Our results suggest that proto-neutron stars with a large
compaction ratio provide the most robust physical conditions for the r-process.
The third peak of the r-process is well reproduced in the winds from these
``compact'' proto-neutron stars even for a moderate entropy, \sim 100-200 N_A
k, and a neutrino luminosity as high as \sim 10^{52} ergs s^{-1}. This is due
to the short dynamical timescale of material in the wind. As a result, the
overproduction of nuclei with A \lesssim 120 is diminished (although some
overproduction of nuclei with A \approx 90 is still evident). The abundances of
the r-process elements per event is significantly higher than in previous
studies. The total-integrated nucleosynthesis yields are in good agreement with
the solar r-process abundance pattern. Our results have confirmed that the
neutrino-driven wind scenario is still a promising site in which to form the
solar r-process abundances. However, our best results seem to imply both a
rather soft neutron-star equation of state and a massive proto-neutron star
which is difficult to achieve with standard core-collapse models. We propose
that the most favorable conditions perhaps require that a massive supernova
progenitor forms a massive proto-neutron star by accretion after a failed
initial neutrino burst.