The generalized Fleming-Viot processes were defined in 1999 by Donnelly and
Kurtz using a particle model and by Bertoin and Le Gall in 2003 using
stochastic flows of bridges. In both methods, the key argument used to
characterize these processes is the duality between these processes and
exchangeable coalescents. A larger class of coalescent processes, called
distinguished coalescents, was set up recently to incorporate an immigration
phenomenon in the underlying population. The purpose of this article is to
define and characterize a class of probability-measure valued processes called
the generalized Fleming-Viot processes with immigration. We consider some
stochastic flows of partitions of Z_{+}, in the same spirit as Bertoin and Le
Gall's flows, replacing roughly speaking, composition of bridges by coagulation
of partitions. Identifying at any time a population with the integers
$\mathbb{N}:=\{1,2,...\}$, the formalism of partitions is effective in the past
as well as in the future especially when there are several simultaneous births.
We show how a stochastic population may be directly embedded in the dual flow.
An extra individual 0 will be viewed as an external generic immigrant ancestor,
with a distinguished type, whose progeny represents the immigrants. The
"modified" lookdown construction of Donnelly-Kurtz is recovered when no
simultaneous multiple births nor immigration are taken into account. In the
last part of the paper we give a sufficient criterion for the initial types
extinction.