Collisionless suspensions of inertial particles (finite-size impurities) are
studied in 2D and 3D spatially smooth flows. Tools borrowed from the study of
random dynamical systems are used to identify and to characterise in full
generality the mechanisms leading to the formation of strong inhomogeneities in
the particle concentration.
  Phenomenological arguments are used to show that in 2D, heavy particles form
dynamical fractal clusters when their Stokes number (non-dimensional viscous
friction time) is below some critical value. Numerical simulations provide
strong evidence for this threshold in both 2D and 3D and for particles not only
heavier but also lighter than the carrier fluid. In 2D, light particles are
found to cluster at discrete (time-dependent) positions and velocities in some
range of the dynamical parameters (the Stokes number and the mass density ratio
between fluid and particles). This regime is absent in 3D, where evidence is
that the Hausdorff dimension of clusters in phase space (position-velocity)
remains always above two.
  After relaxation of transients, the phase-space density of particles becomes
a singular random measure with non-trivial multiscaling properties. Theoretical
results about the projection of fractal sets are used to relate the
distribution in phase space to the distribution of the particle positions.
Multifractality in phase space implies also multiscaling of the spatial
distribution of the mass of particles. Two-dimensional simulations, using
simple random flows and heavy particles, allow the accurate determination of
the scaling exponents: anomalous deviations from self-similar scaling are
already observed for Stokes numbers as small as $10^{-4}$.