We consider the problem of performing a random walk in a distributed network.
Given bandwidth constraints, the goal of the problem is to minimize the number
of rounds required to obtain a random walk sample. Das Sarma et al. [PODC'10]
show that a random walk of length $\ell$ on a network of diameter $D$ can be
performed in $\tilde O(\sqrt{\ell D}+D)$ time. A major question left open is
whether there exists a faster algorithm, especially whether the multiplication
of $\sqrt{\ell}$ and $\sqrt{D}$ is necessary.
  In this paper, we show a tight unconditional lower bound on the time
complexity of distributed random walk computation. Specifically, we show that
for any $n$, $D$, and $D\leq \ell \leq (n/(D^3\log n))^{1/4}$, performing a
random walk of length $\Theta(\ell)$ on an $n$-node network of diameter $D$
requires $\Omega(\sqrt{\ell D}+D)$ time. This bound is {\em unconditional},
i.e., it holds for any (possibly randomized) algorithm. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first lower bound that the diameter plays a role of
multiplicative factor. Our bound shows that the algorithm of Das Sarma et al.
is time optimal.
  Our proof technique introduces a new connection between {\em bounded-round}
communication complexity and distributed algorithm lower bounds with $D$ as a
trade-off parameter, strengthening the previous study by Das Sarma et al.
[STOC'11]. In particular, we make use of the bounded-round communication
complexity of the pointer chasing problem. Our technique can be of independent
interest and may be useful in showing non-trivial lower bounds on the
complexity of other fundamental distributed computing problems.