Diffusion of knowledge is expected to be huge when agents are open minded.
The report concerns a more difficult diffusion case when communities are made
of stubborn agents. Communities having markedly different opinions are for
example the Neocreationist and Intelligent Design Proponents (IDP), on one
hand, and the Darwinian Evolution Defenders (DED), on the other hand. The case
of knowledge diffusion within such communities is studied here on a network
based on an adjacency matrix built from time ordered selected quotations of
agents, whence for inter- and intra-communities. The network is intrinsically
directed and not necessarily reciprocal. Thus, the adjacency matrices have
complex eigenvalues, the eigenvectors present complex components. A
quantification of the slow-down or speed-up effects of information diffusion in
such temporal networks, with non-Markovian contact sequences, can be made by
comparing the real time dependent (directed) network to its counterpart, the
time aggregated (undirected) network, - which has real eigenvalues. In order to
do so, small world networks which both contain an $odd$ number of nodes are
studied and compared to similar networks with an $even$ number of nodes.
  It is found that (i) the diffusion of knowledge is more difficult on the
largest networks, (ii) the network size influences the slowing-down or
speeding-up diffusion process. Interestingly, it is observed that (iii) the
diffusion of knowledge is slower in IDP and faster in DED communities. It is
suggested that the finding can be "rationalized", if some "scientific quality"
and "publication habit" is attributed to the agents, as common sense would
guess. This finding offers some opening discussion toward tying scientific
knowledge to belief.