Community Discovery in complex networks is the problem of detecting, for each
node of the network, its membership to one of more groups of nodes, the
communities, that are densely connected, or highly interactive, or, more in
general, similar, according to a similarity function. So far, the problem has
been widely studied in monodimensional networks, i.e. networks where only one
connection between two entities can exist. However, real networks are often
multidimensional, i.e., multiple connections between any two nodes can exist,
either reflecting different kinds of relationships, or representing different
values of the same type of tie. In this context, the problem of Community
Discovery has to be redefined, taking into account multidimensional structure
of the graph. We define a new concept of community that groups together nodes
sharing memberships to the same monodimensional communities in the different
single dimensions. As we show, such communities are meaningful and able to
group highly correlated nodes, even if they might not be connected in any of
the monodimensional networks. We devise ABACUS (Apriori-BAsed Community
discoverer in mUltidimensional networkS), an algorithm that is able to extract
multidimensional communities based on the apriori itemset miner applied to
monodimensional community memberships. Experiments on two different real
multidimensional networks confirm the meaningfulness of the introduced
concepts, and open the way for a new class of algorithms for community
discovery that do not rely on the dense connections among nodes.