Through this research, embedded synthetic fracture networks in rock masses
are studied. To analysis the fluid flow complexity in fracture networks with
respect to the variation of connectivity patterns, two different approaches are
employed, namely, the Lattice Boltzmann method and graph theory. The Lattice
Boltzmann method is used to show the sensitivity of the permeability and fluid
velocity distribution to synthetic fracture networks' connectivity patterns.
Furthermore, the fracture networks are mapped into the graphs, and the
characteristics of these graphs are compared to the main spatial fracture
networks. Among different characteristics of networks, we distinguish the
modularity of networks and sub-graphs distributions. We map the flow regimes
into the proper regions of the network's modularity space. Also, for each type
of fluid regime, corresponding motifs shapes are scaled. Implemented power law
distributions of fracture length in spatial fracture networks yielded the same
node's degree distribution in transformed networks. Two general spatial
networks are considered: random networks and networks with "hubness" properties
mimicking a spatial damage zone (both with power law distribution of fracture
length). In the first case, the fractures are embedded in uniformly distributed
fracture sets; the second case covers spatial fracture zones. We prove
numerically that the abnormal change (transition) in permeability is controlled
by the hub growth rate. Also, comparing LBM results with the characteristic
mean length of transformed networks' links shows a reverse relationship between
the aforementioned parameters. In addition, the abnormalities in advection
through nodes are presented.