A new presentation of general solution of Navier-Stokes equations is
considered here. We consider equations of motion for 3-dimensional
non-stationary incompressible flow. The field of flow velocity as well as the
equation of momentum should be split to the sum of two components: an
irrotational (curl-free) one, and a solenoidal (divergence-free) one. The
obviously irrotational (curl-free) part of equation of momentum used for
obtaining of the components of pressure gradient. As a term of such an
equation, we used the irrotational (curl-free) vector field of flow velocity,
which is given by the proper potential (besides, the continuity equation
determines such a potential as a harmonic function). The other part of equation
of momentum could also be split to the sum of 2 equations: - with zero curl for
the field of flow velocity (viscous-free), and the proper Eq. with viscous
effects but variable curl. A solenoidal Eq. with viscous effects is represented
by the proper Heat equation for each component of flow velocity with variable
curl. Non-viscous case is presented by the PDE-system of 3 linear differential
equations (in regard to the time-parameter), depending on the components of
solution of the above Heat Eq. for the components of flow velocity with
variable curl. So, the existence of the general solution of Navier-Stokes
equations is proved to be the question of existence of the proper solution for
such a PDE-system of linear equations. Final solution is proved to be the sum
of 2 components: - an irrotational (curl-free) one and a solenoidal (variable
curl) components.