One of the popular dynamics on complex networks is the epidemic spreading. An
epidemic model describes how infections spread throughout a network. Among the
compartmental models used to describe epidemics, the
Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible (SIS) model has been widely used. In the SIS
model, each node can be susceptible, become infected with a given infection
rate, and become again susceptible with a given curing rate. In this paper, we
add a new compartment to the classic SIS model to account for human response to
epidemic spread. Each individual can be infected, susceptible, or alert.
Susceptible individuals can become alert with an alerting rate if infected
individuals exist in their neighborhood. An individual in the alert state is
less probable to become infected than an individual in the susceptible state;
due to a newly adopted cautious behavior. The problem is formulated as a
continuous-time Markov process on a general static graph and then modeled into
a set of ordinary differential equations using mean field approximation method
and the corresponding Kolmogorov forward equations. The model is then studied
using results from algebraic graph theory and center manifold theorem. We
analytically show that our model exhibits two distinct thresholds in the
dynamics of epidemic spread. Below the first threshold, infection dies out
exponentially. Beyond the second threshold, infection persists in the steady
state. Between the two thresholds, the infection spreads at the first stage but
then dies out asymptotically as the result of increased alertness in the
network. Finally, simulations are provided to support our findings. Our results
suggest that alertness can be considered as a strategy of controlling the
epidemics which propose multiple potential areas of applications, from
infectious diseases mitigations to malware impact reduction.