We study the mechanical stiffening behavior in two-dimensional (2D)
cross-linked networks of semiflexible biopolymer filaments under simple shear.
Filamental constituents immersed in a fluid undergo thermally excited bending
motions. Pulling out these undulations results in an increase in the axial
stiffness. We analyze this stiffening behavior of 2D semiflexible filaments in
detail: we first investigate the average, {static} force-extension relation by
considering the initially present undulated configuration that is pulled
straight under a tensile force, and compare this result with the average
response in which undulation dynamics is allowed during pulling, as derived
earlier by MacKintosh and coworkers. We will show that the resulting mechanical
behavior is rather similar, but with the axial stiffness being a factor 2 to 4
larger in the dynamic model. Furthermore, we study the stretching contribution
in case of extensible filaments and show that, for 2D filaments, the mechanical
response is dominated by {enthalpic} stretching. Based on the single-filament
mechanics, we develop a 2D analytical model describing the mechanical behavior
of biopolymer networks under simple shear, adopting the affine deformation
assumption. These results are compared with discrete, finite-element (FE)
calculations of a network consisting of semiflexible filaments. The FE
calculations show that local, nonaffine filament reorientations occur that
induce a transition from a bending-dominated response at small strains to a
stretching-dominated response at larger strains. Stiffening in biopolymer
networks thus results from a combination of stiffening in individual filaments
and changes in the network topography.