Mobility support in future networks will be predominately based on micro
mobility protocols. Current proposed schemes such as Hierarchical Mobile IPv6
(HMIPv6) and more importantly Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) provide localized
mobility support by electing a node within the network (topologically close to
the Access Routers (AR)) to act as mobility anchor. Such schemes can
significantly improve handover latency, as well as the end-to-end signalling
overhead, but might entail scalability issues, which in some instances, do not
fit adequately with the current explosion of mobile Internet traffic, and the
evolutionary trend towards flat network architectures. The notion of using
Distributed Mobility Management (DMM) allows for decentralization by anchoring
nodes at their AR. The idea is that for sessions with duration less than the
cell residence time efficient mobility can be supported. However, DMM might be
highly suboptimal in instances where nodes perform multiple handovers during
the session lifetime. Hence, one approach cannot be effective for all types of
applications. In this paper a hybrid mobility management solution, integrated
with a new routing scheme, is proposed. The scheme selects the most suitable
mobility approach, centralized or distributed, by taking into account the
flows' requirement, in terms of Quality of Experience (QoE), and new routing
constraints. The results of optimization problem show that the proposed
approach can achieve efficient resource utilisation, ease network congestion,
and lead to a significant improvement in the QoE.