We examine a small prominence eruption that occurred on 2014 May 1 at 01:35
UT and was observed by the Interface Region Imaging Spectrometer (IRIS) and the
Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) on the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO).
Pre- and post-eruption images were taken by the X-Ray Telescope (XRT) on
Hinode. Pre-eruption, a dome-like structure exists above the prominence, as
demarcated by coronal rain. As the eruption progresses, we find evidence for
reconnection between the prominence magnetic field and the overlying field.
Fast flows are seen in AIA and IRIS, indicating reconnection outflows.
Plane-of-sky flows of ~300 km s$^{-1}$ are observed in the AIA 171 A channel
along a potentially reconnected field line. IRIS detects intermittent fast
line-of-sight flows of ~200 km s$^{-1}$ coincident with the AIA flows.
Differential emission measure calculations show heating at the origin of the
fast flows. Post-eruption XRT images show hot loops probably due to
reconfiguration of magnetic fields during the eruption and subsequent heating
of plasma in these loops. Although there is evidence for reconnection above the
prominence during the eruption, high spatial resolution images from IRIS reveal
potential reconnection sites below the prominence. A height-time analysis of
the erupting prominence shows a slow initial rise with a velocity of ~0.4 km
s$^{-1}$ followed by a rapid acceleration with a final velocity of ~250 km
s$^{-1}$. Brightenings in IRIS during the transition between these two phases
indicate the eruption trigger for the fast part of the eruption is likely a
tether-cutting mechanism rather than a break-out mechanism.