Recent high resolution observations of the Galactic center black hole allow
for direct comparison with accretion disk simulations. We compare
two-temperature synchrotron emission models from three dimensional, general
relativistic magnetohydrodynamic simulations to millimeter observations of Sgr
A*. Fits to very long baseline interferometry and spectral index measurements
disfavor the monochromatic face-on black hole shadow models from our previous
work. Inclination angles \le 20 degrees are ruled out to 3 \sigma. We estimate
the inclination and position angles of the black hole, as well as the electron
temperature of the accretion flow and the accretion rate, to be i=50+35-15
degrees, \xi=-23+97-22 degrees, T_e=(5.4 +/- 3.0)x10^10 K and
Mdot=(5+15-2)x10^-9 M_sun / yr respectively, with 90% confidence. The black
hole shadow is unobscured in all best fit models, and may be detected by
observations on baselines between Chile and California, Arizona or Mexico at
1.3mm or .87mm either through direct sampling of the visibility amplitude or
using closure phase information. Millimeter flaring behavior consistent with
the observations is present in all viable models, and is caused by magnetic
turbulence in the inner radii of the accretion flow. The variability at
optically thin frequencies is strongly correlated with that in the accretion
rate. The simulations provide a universal picture of the 1.3mm emission region
as a small region near the midplane in the inner radii of the accretion flow,
which is roughly isothermal and has \nu/\nu_c ~ 1-20, where \nu_c is the
critical frequency for thermal synchrotron emission.