Context: The interaction of plasma motions and magnetic fields is an
important mechanism, which drives solar activity in all its facets. For
example, photospheric flows are responsible for the advection of magnetic flux,
the redistribution of flux during the decay of sunspots, and the built-up of
magnetic shear in flaring active regions. Aims: Systematic studies based on
G-band data from the Japanese Hinode mission provide the means to gather
statistical properties of horizontal flow fields. This facilitates comparative
studies of solar features, e.g., G-band bright points, magnetic knots, pores,
and sunspots at various stages of evolution and in distinct magnetic
environments, thus, enhancing our understanding of the dynamic Sun. Methods: We
adapted Local Correlation Tracking (LCT) to measure horizontal flow fields
based on G-band images obtained with the Solar Optical Telescope on board
Hinode. In total about 200 time-series with a duration between 1-16 h and a
cadence between 15-90 s were analyzed. Selecting both a high-cadence (dt = 15
s) and a long-duration (dT = 16 h) time-series enabled us to optimize and
validate the LCT input parameters, hence, ensuring a robust, reliable, uniform,
and accurate processing of a huge data volume. Results: The LCT algorithm
produces best results for G-band images having a cadence of 60-90 s. If the
cadence is lower, the velocity of slowly moving features will not be reliably
detected. If the cadence is higher, the scene on the Sun will have evolved too
much to bear any resemblance with the earlier situation. Consequently, in both
instances horizontal proper motions are underestimated. The most reliable and
yet detailed flow maps are produced using a Gaussian kernel with a size of 2560
km x 2560 km and a full-width-at-half-maximum (FWHM) of 1200 km (corresponding
to the size of a typical granule) as sampling window.