Real complex systems are inherently time-varying. Thanks to new communication
systems and novel technologies, it is today possible to produce and analyze
social and biological networks with detailed information on the time of
occurrence and duration of each link. However, standard graph metrics
introduced so far in complex network theory are mainly suited for static
graphs, i.e., graphs in which the links do not change over time, or graphs
built from time-varying systems by aggregating all the links as if they were
concurrent in time. In this paper, we extend the notion of connectedness, and
the definitions of node and graph components, to the case of time-varying
graphs, which are represented as time-ordered sequences of graphs defined over
a fixed set of nodes. We show that the problem of finding strongly connected
components in a time-varying graph can be mapped into the problem of
discovering the maximal-cliques in an opportunely constructed static graph,
which we name the affine graph. It is therefore an NP-complete problem. As a
practical example, we have performed a temporal component analysis of
time-varying graphs constructed from three data sets of human interactions. The
results show that taking time into account in the definition of graph
components allows to capture important features of real systems. In particular,
we observe a large variability in the size of node temporal in- and
out-components. This is due to intrinsic fluctuations in the activity patterns
of individuals, which cannot be detected by static graph analysis.