Mobile networks are undergoing fast evolution to software-defined networking
(SDN) infrastructure in order to accommodate the ever-growing mobile traffic
and overcome the network management nightmares caused by unremitting
acceleration in technology innovations and evolution of the service
market.Enabled by virtualized network functionalities, evolving carrier
wireless networks tend to share radio access network (RAN) among multiple
(virtual) network operators so as to increase network capacity and reduce
expenses.However, existing RAN sharing models are operator-oriented, which
expose extensive resource details, e.g. infrastructure and spectrum,to
participating network operators for resource-sharing purposes. These
old-fashioned models violate the design principles of SDN abstraction and are
infeasible to manage the thriving traffic of on-demand customized services.
This paper presents SOARAN, a service-oriented framework for RAN sharing in
mobile networks evolving from LTE/LTE advanced to software-defined carrier
wireless networks(SD-CWNs), which decouples network operators from radio
resource by providing application-level differentiated services. SOARAN defines
a serial of abstract applications with distinct Quality of Experience (QoE)
requirements. The central controller periodically computes application-level
resource allocation for each radio element with respect to runtime traffic
demands and channel conditions, and disseminate these allocation decisions as
service-oriented policies to respect element. The radio elements then
independently determine flow-level resource allocation within each application
to accomplish these policies. We formulate the application-level resource
allocation as an optimization problem and develop a fast algorithm to solve it
with a provably approximate guarantee.