The structure, interdependence, and fragility of systems ranging from power
grids and transportation to ecology, climate, biology and even human
communities and the Internet, have been examined through network science. While
the response to perturbations has been quantified, recovery strategies for
perturbed networks have usually been either discussed conceptually or through
anecdotal case studies. Here we develop a network science-based quantitative
methods framework for measuring, comparing and interpreting hazard responses
and as well as recovery strategies. The framework, motivated by the recently
proposed temporal resilience paradigm, is demonstrated with the Indian Railways
Network. The methods are demonstrated through the resilience of the network to
natural or human-induced hazards and electric grid failure. Simulations
inspired by the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami and the 2012 North Indian blackout as
well as a cyber-physical attack scenario. Multiple metrics are used to generate
various recovery strategies, which are simply sequences in which system
components should be recovered after a disruption. Quantitative evaluation of
recovery strategies suggests that faster and more resource-effective recovery
is possible through network centrality measures. Case studies based on two
historical events, specifically the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the 2012
North Indian blackout, and a simulated cyber-physical attack scenario, provides
means for interpreting the relative performance of various recovery strategies.
Quantitative evaluation of recovery strategies suggests that faster and more
resource-effective restoration is possible through network centrality measures,
even though the specific strategy may be different for sub-networks or for the
partial recovery.