Consider a wireless network that has two tiers with different priorities: a
primary tier vs. a secondary tier, which is an emerging network scenario with
the advancement of cognitive radio technologies. The primary tier consists of
randomly distributed legacy nodes of density $n$, which have an absolute
priority to access the spectrum. The secondary tier consists of randomly
distributed cognitive nodes of density $m=n^\beta$ with $\beta\geq 2$, which
can only access the spectrum opportunistically to limit the interference to the
primary tier. Based on the assumption that the secondary tier is allowed to
route the packets for the primary tier, we investigate the throughput and delay
scaling laws of the two tiers in the following two scenarios: i) the primary
and secondary nodes are all static; ii) the primary nodes are static while the
secondary nodes are mobile. With the proposed protocols for the two tiers, we
show that the primary tier can achieve a per-node throughput scaling of
$\lambda_p(n)=\Theta(1/\log n)$ in the above two scenarios. In the associated
delay analysis for the first scenario, we show that the primary tier can
achieve a delay scaling of $D_p(n)=\Theta(\sqrt{n^\beta\log n}\lambda_p(n))$
with $\lambda_p(n)=O(1/\log n)$. In the second scenario, with two mobility
models considered for the secondary nodes: an i.i.d. mobility model and a
random walk model, we show that the primary tier can achieve delay scaling laws
of $\Theta(1)$ and $\Theta(1/S)$, respectively, where $S$ is the random walk
step size. The throughput and delay scaling laws for the secondary tier are
also established, which are the same as those for a stand-alone network.