We investigate how the holographic correspondence can be reconstructed as a
special RG flow in a strongly interacting large $N$ field theory. We firstly
define a "highly efficient RG flow" as one in which the cut-off in momentum
space can be adjusted as a functional of the elementary fields, and of the
external sources and of the background metric in order to be compatible with
the following requirement: the Ward identities for single-trace operators
involving conservation of energy, momentum and global charges must preserve the
same form at every scale. In order to absorb the contributions of the
multi-trace operators to these effective Ward identities, the external sources
and the background metric need to be redefined at each scale, and thus they
become dynamical as in the dual gravity equations. We give a schematic
construction of such highly efficient RG flows using appropriate collective
variables, leaving a more explicit construction in certain limits to the second
part of this work. We find that all highly efficient RG flows that can be
mapped to classical gravity equations have an additional "lifted Weyl
symmetry", which is related to the ultraviolet Weyl symmetry, and which also
has complete information about the gauge fixing of the diffeomorphism symmetry
of the equivalent classical gravity equations. We present strong arguments for
our claim that the presence of the lifted Weyl symmetry along with the
requirement that the infrared end point can be characterised by a finite number
of parameters, are sufficient conditions for a highly efficient RG flow to have
a precise dual classical gravity description.