Network service providers and customers are often concerned with aggregate
performance measures that span multiple network paths. Unfortunately, forming
such network-wide measures can be difficult, due to the issues of scale
involved. In particular, the number of paths grows too rapidly with the number
of endpoints to make exhaustive measurement practical. As a result, there is
interest in the feasibility of methods that dramatically reduce the number of
paths measured in such situations while maintaining acceptable accuracy.
  In previous work we proposed a statistical framework to efficiently address
this problem, in the context of additive metrics such as delay and loss rate,
for which the per-path metric is a sum of (possibly transformed) per-link
measures. The key to our method lies in the observation and exploitation of
significant redundancy in network paths (sharing of common links).
  In this paper we make three contributions: (1) we generalize the framework to
make it more immediately applicable to network measurements encountered in
practice; (2) we demonstrate that the observed path redundancy upon which our
method is based is robust to variation in key network conditions and
characteristics, including link failures; and (3) we show how the framework may
be applied to address three practical problems of interest to network providers
and customers, using data from an operating network. In particular, we show how
appropriate selection of small sets of path measurements can be used to
accurately estimate network-wide averages of path delays, to reliably detect
network anomalies, and to effectively make a choice between alternative
sub-networks, as a customer choosing between two providers or two ingress
points into a provider network.