With the growing popularity and usage of online social media services, people
now have accounts (some times several) on multiple and diverse services like
Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and YouTube. Publicly available information can be
used to create a digital footprint of any user using these social media
services. Generating such digital footprints can be very useful for
personalization, profile management, detecting malicious behavior of users. A
very important application of analyzing users' online digital footprints is to
protect users from potential privacy and security risks arising from the huge
publicly available user information. We extracted information about user
identities on different social networks through Social Graph API, FriendFeed,
and Profilactic; we collated our own dataset to create the digital footprints
of the users. We used username, display name, description, location, profile
image, and number of connections to generate the digital footprints of the
user. We applied context specific techniques (e.g. Jaro Winkler similarity,
Wordnet based ontologies) to measure the similarity of the user profiles on
different social networks. We specifically focused on Twitter and LinkedIn. In
this paper, we present the analysis and results from applying automated
classifiers for disambiguating profiles belonging to the same user from
different social networks. UserID and Name were found to be the most
discriminative features for disambiguating user profiles. Using the most
promising set of features and similarity metrics, we achieved accuracy,
precision and recall of 98%, 99%, and 96%, respectively.