In the present paper we consider the problem of Laplace deconvolution with
noisy discrete observations. The study is motivated by Dynamic Contrast
Enhanced imaging using a bolus of contrast agent, a procedure which allows
considerable improvement in {evaluating} the quality of a vascular network and
its permeability and is widely used in medical assessment of brain flows or
cancerous tumors. Although the study is motivated by medical imaging
application, we obtain a solution of a general problem of Laplace deconvolution
based on noisy data which appears in many different contexts. We propose a new
method for Laplace deconvolution which is based on expansions of the
convolution kernel, the unknown function and the observed signal over Laguerre
functions basis. The expansion results in a small system of linear equations
with the matrix of the system being triangular and Toeplitz. The number $m$ of
the terms in the expansion of the estimator is controlled via complexity
penalty. The advantage of this methodology is that it leads to very fast
computations, does not require exact knowledge of the kernel and produces no
boundary effects due to extension at zero and cut-off at $T$. The technique
leads to an estimator with the risk within a logarithmic factor of $m$ of the
oracle risk under no assumptions on the model and within a constant factor of
the oracle risk under mild assumptions. The methodology is illustrated by a
finite sample simulation study which includes an example of the kernel obtained
in the real life DCE experiments. Simulations confirm that the proposed
technique is fast, efficient, accurate, usable from a practical point of view
and competitive.