Protons and alpha particles in the fast solar wind are only weakly
collisional and exhibit a number of non-equilibrium features, including
relative drifts between particle species. Two non-collisional mechanisms have
been proposed for limiting differential flow between alpha particles and
protons: plasma instabilities and the rotational force. Both mechanisms
decelerate the alpha particles. In this paper, we derive an analytic expression
for the rate $Q_{\mathrm{flow}}$ at which energy is released by alpha-particle
deceleration, accounting for azimuthal flow and conservation of total momentum.
We show that instabilities control the deceleration of alpha particles at $r<
r_{\mathrm{crit}}$, and the rotational force controls the deceleration of alpha
particles at $r> r_{\mathrm{crit}}$, where $r_{\mathrm{crit}} \simeq 2.5
\,\mathrm{AU}$ in the fast solar wind in the ecliptic plane. We find that
$Q_{\mathrm{flow}}$ is positive at $r<r_{\mathrm{crit}}$ and $Q_{\mathrm{flow}}
= 0$ at $r\geq r_{\mathrm{crit}}$, consistent with the previous finding that
the rotational force does not lead to a release of energy. We compare the value
of~$Q_{\mathrm{flow}}$ at $r< r_{\mathrm{crit}}$ with empirical heating rates
for protons and alpha particles, denoted $Q_{\mathrm{p}}$ and $Q_{\alpha}$,
deduced from in-situ measurements of fast-wind streams from the \emph{Helios}
and \emph{Ulysses} spacecraft. We find that $Q_{\mathrm{flow}}$ exceeds
$Q_{\alpha}$ at $r < 1\,\mathrm{AU}$, and that $Q_{\mathrm{flow}}/Q_{\rm p}$
decreases with increasing distance from the Sun from a value of about one at
$r=0.29 - 0.42\,\mathrm{AU}$ to about 1/4 at 1 AU. We conclude that the
continuous energy input from alpha-particle deceleration at $r<
r_{\mathrm{crit}}$ makes an important contribution to the heating of the fast
solar wind.