Transient and equilibrium synchronizations in complex neuronal networks as a
consequence of dynamics induced by having sources placed at specific neurons
are investigated. The basic integrate-and-fire neuron is adopted, and the
dynamics is estimated computationally so as to obtain the activation at each
node along each instant of time. In the transient case, the dynamics is
implemented so as to conserve the total activation entering the system. In our
equilibrium investigations, the internally stored activation is limited to the
value of the respective threshold. The synchronization of the activation of the
network is then quantified in terms of its normalized entropy. The equilibrium
investigations involve the application of a number of complementary
characterization methods, including spectra and Principal Component Analysis,
as well as of an equivalent model capable of reproducing both the transient and
equilibrium dynamics. The potential of such concepts and measurements is
explored with respect to several theoretical models, as well as for the
neuronal network of \emph{C. elegans}. A series of interesting results are
obtained and discussed, including the fact that all models led to a transient
period of synchronization, whose specific features depend on the topological
structures of the networks. The investigations of the equilibrium dynamics
revealed a series of remarkable insights, including the relationship between
spiking oscillations and the hierarchical structure of the networks and the
identification of twin correlation patterns between node degree and total
activation, implying that hubs of connectivity are also hubs of
integrate-and-fire activation.