Complex networks underlie an enormous variety of social, biological,
physical, and virtual systems. A profound complication for the science of
complex networks is that in most cases, observing all nodes and all network
interactions is impossible. Previous work addressing the impacts of partial
network data is surprisingly limited, focuses primarily on missing nodes, and
suggests that network statistics derived from subsampled data are not suitable
estimators for the same network statistics describing the overall network
topology. We generate scaling methods to predict true network statistics,
including the degree distribution, from only partial knowledge of nodes, links,
or weights. Our methods are transparent and do not assume a known generating
process for the network, thus enabling prediction of network statistics for a
wide variety of applications. We validate analytical results on four simulated
network classes and empirical data sets of various sizes. We perform
subsampling experiments by varying proportions of sampled data and demonstrate
that our scaling methods can provide very good estimates of true network
statistics while acknowledging limits. Lastly, we apply our techniques to a set
of rich and evolving large-scale social networks, Twitter reply networks. Based
on 100 million tweets, we use our scaling techniques to propose a statistical
characterization of the Twitter Interactome from September 2008 to November
2008. Our treatment allows us to find support for Dunbar's hypothesis in
detecting an upper threshold for the number of active social contacts that
individuals maintain over the course of one week.