Hydromagnetic turbulence affects the evolution of large-scale magnetic fields
through mean-field effects like turbulent diffusion and the $\alpha$ effect.
For stronger fields, these effects are usually suppressed or quenched, and
additional anisotropies are introduced. Using different variants of the
test-field method, we determine the quenching of the turbulent transport
coefficients for the forced Roberts flow, isotropically forced non-helical
turbulence, and rotating thermal convection. We see significant quenching only
when the mean magnetic field is larger than the equipartition value of the
turbulence. Expressing the magnetic field in terms of the equipartition value
of the {\it quenched} flows, we obtain for the quenching exponents of the
turbulent magnetic diffusivity about 1.3, 1.1, and 1.3 for Roberts flow, forced
turbulence, and convection, respectively. However, when the magnetic field is
expressed in terms of the equipartition value of the unquenched flows these
quenching exponents become about 4, 1.5, and 2.3, respectively. For the
$\alpha$ effect, the exponent is about 1.3 for the Roberts flow and 2 for
convection in the first case, but 4 and 3, respectively, in the second. In
convection, the quenching of turbulent pumping follows the same power law as
turbulent diffusion, while for the coefficient describing the $\bf \Omega
\times \bf J$ effect nearly the same quenching exponent is obtained as for
$\alpha$. For forced turbulence, turbulent diffusion proportional to the second
derivative along the mean magnetic field is quenched much less, especially for
larger values of the magnetic Reynolds number. However, we find that in
corresponding axisymmetric mean-field dynamos with dominant toroidal field the
quenched diffusion coefficients are the same for the poloidal and toroidal
field constituents.