Many online collaboration networks struggle to gain user activity and become
self-sustaining due to the ramp-up problem or dwindling activity within the
system. Prominent examples of such networks include online encyclopedias such
as Wikipedia or (Semantic) MediaWikis, Question and Answering portals such as
StackOverflow, and many others. Only a small fraction of these systems manage
to reach self-sustainable activity, a level of activity that prevents the
system from reverting to a non-active state. In this paper, we model and
analyze activity dynamics in synthetic and empirical collaboration networks.
Our approach is based on two opposing and well-studied principles: (i) without
incentives, users tend to lose interest to contribute and thus, systems become
inactive, and (ii) people are susceptible to actions taken by their peers
(social or peer influence). With the activity dynamics model that we introduce
in this paper we can represent typical situations of such collaboration
networks. For example, activity in a collaborative network, without external
impulses or investments, will vanish over time, eventually rendering the system
inactive. However, by appropriately manipulating the activity dynamics and/or
the underlying collaboration networks, we can jump-start a previously inactive
system and advance it towards an active state. To be able to do so, we first
describe our model and its underlying mechanisms. We then provide illustrative
examples of empirical datasets and characterize the barrier that has to be
breached for a system before it can become self-sustaining in terms of critical
mass and activity dynamics. Additionally, we expand on this empirical
illustration and introduce a new metric p---the Activity Momentum---to assess
the activity robustness of a collaboration network.