We consider the problem of simultaneous on-demand streaming of stored video
to multiple users in a multi-cell wireless network where multiple unicast
streaming sessions are run in parallel and share the same frequency band. Each
streaming session is formed by the sequential transmission of video "chunks,"
such that each chunk arrives into the corresponding user playback buffer within
its playback deadline. We formulate the problem as a Network Utility
Maximization (NUM) where the objective is to fairly maximize users' video
streaming Quality of Experience (QoE) and then derive an iterative control
policy using Lyapunov Optimization, which solves the NUM problem up to any
level of accuracy and yields an online protocol with control actions at every
iteration decomposing into two layers interconnected by the users' request
queues : i) a video streaming adaptation layer reminiscent of DASH, implemented
at each user node; ii) a transmission scheduling layer where a max-weight
scheduler is implemented at each base station. The proposed chunk request
scheme is a pull strategy where every user opportunistically requests video
chunks from the neighboring base stations and dynamically adapts the quality of
its requests based on the current size of the request queue. For the
transmission scheduling component, we first describe the general max-weight
scheduler and then particularize it to a wireless network where the base
stations have multiuser MIMO (MU-MIMO) beamforming capabilities. We exploit the
channel hardening effect of large-dimensional MIMO channels (massive MIMO) and
devise a low complexity user selection scheme to solve the underlying
combinatorial problem of selecting user subsets for downlink beamforming, which
can be easily implemented and run independently at each base station.