We present high spatial resolution spectroscopic observations of the proplyd
167-317 (LV2) near the Trapezium cluster in the Orion nebula, obtained during
the System Verification run of the Gemini Multi Object Spectrograph (GMOS)
Integral Field Unit (IFU) at the Gemini South Observatory. We have detected 38
forbidden and permitted emission lines associated with the proplyd and its
redshifted jet. We have been able to detect three velocity components in the
profiles of some of these lines: a peak with a 28-33 km/s systemic velocity
that is associated with the photoevaporated proplyd flow, a highly redshifted
component associated with a previously reported jet (which has receding
velocities of about 80-120 km/s with respect to the systemic velocity and is
spatially distributed to the southeast of the proplyd) and a less obvious,
approaching structure, which may possibly be associated with a faint
counter-jet with systemic velocity of (-75 +/- 15) km/s. We find evidences that
the redshifted jet has a variable velocity, with slow fluctuations as a
function of the distance from the proplyd. We present several background
subtracted, spatially distributed emission line maps and we use this
information to obtain the dynamical characteristics over the observed field.
Using a simple model and with the extinction corrected Halpha fluxes, we
estimate the mass loss rate for both the proplyd photoevaporated flow and the
redshifted microjet, obtaining (6.2 +/- 0.6) x 10^{-7} M_sun/year and (2.0 +/-
0.7) x 10^{-8} M_sun/year, respectively.