Full Duplex or Simultaneous transmission and reception (STR) in the same
frequency at the same time can potentially double the physical layer capacity.
However, high power transmit signal will appear at receive chain as echoes with
powers much higher than the desired received signal. Therefore, in order to
achieve the potential gain, it is imperative to cancel these echoes. As these
high power echoes can saturate low noise amplifier (LNA) and also digital
domain echo cancellation requires unrealistically high resolution
analog-to-digital converter (ADC), the echoes should be cancelled or suppressed
sufficiently before LNA. In this paper we present a closed-loop echo
cancellation technique which can be implemented purely in analogue domain. The
advantages of our method are multiple-fold: it is robust to phase noise, does
not require additional set of antennas, can be applied to wideband signals and
the performance is irrelevant to radio frequency (RF) impairments in transmit
chain. Next, we study a few protocols for STR systems in carrier sense multiple
access (CSMA) network and investigate MAC level throughput with realistic
assumptions in both single cell and multiple cells. We show that STR can reduce
hidden node problem in CSMA network and produce gains of up to 279% in maximum
throughput in such networks. Finally, we investigate the application of STR in
cellular systems and study two new unique interferences introduced to the
system due to STR, namely BS-BS interference and UE-UE interference. We show
that these two new interferences will hugely degrade system performance if not
treated appropriately. We propose novel methods to reduce both interferences
and investigate the performances in system level.