We study an interference network where equally-numbered transmitters and
receivers lie on two parallel lines, each transmitter opposite its intended
receiver. We consider two short-range interference models: the "asymmetric
network," where the signal sent by each transmitter is interfered only by the
signal sent by its left neighbor (if present), and a "symmetric network," where
it is interfered by both its left and its right neighbors. Each transmitter is
cognizant of its own message, the messages of the $t_\ell$ transmitters to its
left, and the messages of the $t_r$ transmitters to its right. Each receiver
decodes its message based on the signals received at its own antenna, at the
$r_\ell$ receive antennas to its left, and the $r_r$ receive antennas to its
right. For such networks we provide upper and lower bounds on the multiplexing
gain, i.e., on the high-SNR asymptotic logarithmic growth of the sum-rate
capacity. In some cases our bounds meet, e.g., for the asymmetric network. Our
results exhibit an equivalence between the transmitter side-information
parameters $t_\ell, t_r$ and the receiver side-information parameters $r_\ell,
r_r$ in the sense that increasing/decreasing $t_\ell$ or $t_r$ by a positive
integer $\delta$ has the same effect on the multiplexing gain as
increasing/decreasing $r_\ell$ or $r_r$ by $\delta$. Moreover---even in
asymmetric networks---there is an equivalence between the left side-information
parameters $t_\ell, r_\ell$ and the right side-information parameters $t_r,
r_r$.