Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) has been expanding its geographical
distribution with important implications for both human and animal health. The
emergence of Rift Valley fever (RVF) in the Middle East, and its continuing
presence in many areas of Africa, has negatively impacted both medical and
veterinary infrastructures and human health. Furthermore, worldwide attention
should be directed towards the broader infection dynamics of RVFV. We propose a
new compartmentalized model of RVF and the related ordinary differential
equations to assess disease spread in both time and space; with the latter
driven as a function of contact networks. The model is based on weighted
contact networks, where nodes of the networks represent geographical regions
and the weights represent the level of contact between regional pairings for
each set of species. The inclusion of human, animal, and vector movements among
regions is new to RVF modeling. The movement of the infected individuals is not
only treated as a possibility, but also an actuality that can be incorporated
into the model. We have tested, calibrated, and evaluated the model using data
from the recent 2010 RVF outbreak in South Africa as a case study; mapping the
epidemic spread within and among three South African provinces. An extensive
set of simulation results shows the potential of the proposed approach for
accurately modeling the RVF spreading process in additional regions of the
world. The benefits of the proposed model are twofold: not only can the model
differentiate the maximum number of infected individuals among different
provinces, but also it can reproduce the different starting times of the
outbreak in multiple locations. Finally, the exact value of the reproduction
number is numerically computed and upper and lower bounds for the reproduction
number are analytically derived in the case of homogeneous populations.