Contemporary personal computing devices are increasingly required to be
portable and mobile enabling user's wireless access, to wired network
infrastructures and services. This approach to mobile computing and
communication is only appropriate in situations where a coherent infrastructure
is available. There are many situations where these requirements are not
fulfilled such as; developing nations, rural areas, natural disasters, and
military conflicts to name but a few. A practical solution is to use mobile
devices interconnected via a wireless medium to form a network, known as a
Mobile Ad-hoc Network (MANET), and provide the services normally found in wired
networks. Security in MANETs is an issue of paramount importance due to the
wireless nature of the communication links. Additionally due to the lack of
central administration security issues are different from conventional
networks. For the purposes of this article we have used the "WMN test-bed" to
enable secure routing in MANETs. The use of cryptography is an efficient proven
way of securing data in communications, but some cryptographic algorithms are
not as efficient as others and require more processing power, which is
detrimental to MANETs. In this article we have assessed different cryptographic
approaches to securing the OLSR (Optimised Link State Routing) protocol to
provide a basis for research. We conclude the paper with a series of
performance evaluation results regarding different cryptographic and hashing
schemes. Our findings clearly show that the most efficient combination of
algorithms used for authentication and encryption are SHA-1 and AES
respectively. Using this combination over their counterparts will lead to a
considerable reduction in processing time and delay on the network, creating an
efficient transaction moving towards satisfying resource constraints and
security requirements.