We study rotating thermal convection in spherical shells as prototype for
flow in the cores of terrestrial planets, gas planets or in stars. We base our
analysis on a set of about 450 direct numerical simulations of the
(magneto)hydrodynamic equations under the Boussinesq approximation. The Ekman
number ranges from $10^{-3}$ to $10^{-6}$. Four sets of simulations are
considered: non-magnetic simulations and dynamo simulations with either
free-slip or no-slip flow boundary conditions. The non-magnetic setup with
free-slip boundaries generates the strongest zonal flows. Both non-magnetic
simulations with no-slip flow boundary conditions and self-consistent dynamos
with free-slip boundaries have drastically reduced zonal-flows. Suppression of
shear leads to a substantial gain in heat-transfer efficiency, increasing by a
factor of 3 in some cases. Such efficiency enhancement occurs as long as the
convection is significantly influenced by rotation. At higher convective
driving the heat-transfer efficiency trends towards that of the classical
non-rotating Rayleigh-B\'enard system. Analysis of the latitudinal distribution
of heat flow reveals that the shear is most effective at suppressing
heat-transfer at low-latitudes. We also explore the influence of the magnetic
field on the {\em non-zonal} flow components to test the idea of
`magnetostrophic' convection. Comparing non-magnetic with dynamo simulations
for no-slip boundaries, which reduce the influence of zonal flow, we find that
at an Ekman number of $10^{-5}$ the flow in polar regions is significantly
affected by the presence of the magnetic field. Near the equator, changes
remain subtle. In a few simulations at an Ekman number of $10^{-6}$ we see
dramatic changes in flow structure at {\em all} latitudes due to the presence
of the magnetic field, hinting that we are approaching a magnetostrophic regime
at such low Ekman numbers.