We perform kinematic simulations of dynamo action driven by a helical small
scale flow of a conducting fluid in order to deduce mean-field properties of
the combined induction action of small scale eddies. We examine two different
flow patterns in the style of the G.O. Roberts flow but with a mean vertical
component and with internal fixtures that are modelled by regions with
vanishing flow. These fixtures represent either rods that lie in the center of
individual eddies, or internal dividing walls that provide a separation of the
eddies from each other. The fixtures can be made of magnetic material with a
relative permeability larger than one which can alter the dynamo behavior. The
investigations are motivated by the widely unknown induction effects of the
forced helical flow that is used in the core of liquid sodium cooled fast
reactors, and from the key role of soft iron impellers in the
Von-K\'arm\'an-Sodium (VKS) dynamo.
  For both examined flow configurations the consideration of magnetic material
within the fluid flow causes a reduction of the critical magnetic Reynolds
number of up to 25%. The development of the growth-rate in the limit of the
largest achievable permeabilities suggests no further significant reduction for
even larger values of the permeability.
  In order to study the dynamo behavior of systems that consist of tens of
thousands of helical cells we resort to the mean-field dynamo theory (Krause &
R\"adler 1980) in which the action of the small scale flow is parameterized in
terms of an $\alpha$- and $\beta$-effect. We compute the relevant elements of
the $\alpha$- and the $\beta$-tensor using the so called testfield method. We
find a reasonable agreement between the fully resolved models and the
corresponding mean-field models for wall or rod materials in the considered
range $1\leq \mu_r \leq 20$.