Femtocells are an emerging technology aimed at providing gains to both
network operators and end-users. These gains come at a cost of increased
interference, specifically the cross network interference between the macrocell
and femtocell networks. This interference is one of the main performance
limiting factors in allowing an underlaid femtocell network to share the
spectrum with the cellular network. To manage this interference, we first
propose a femtocell architecture that orthog- onally partitions the network
bandwidth between the macrocell and femtocell networks. This scheme eliminates
the cross network interference thus giving the femtocells more freedom over
their use of the spectrum. Specifically, no interference constraint is imposed
by the cellular network allowing femto users to transmit at a constant power on
randomly selected channels. Although simple, this scheme is enough to give
gains up to 200% in sum rate.
  We then propose a second architecture where both networks share the bandwidth
simultaneously. A femtocell power control scheme that relies on minimal
coordination with the macrocell base station is used in conjunction with an
interference sensing channel assignment mechanism. These two schemes together
yield sum rate gains up to 200%. We then develop a technique for macro users to
join a nearby femtocell and share a common chan- nel with a femtocell user
through the use of successive interfer- ence cancellation. By adding this
mechanism to the power control and channel assignment schemes, we show sum rate
gains over 300% and up to 90% power savings for macrocell users.