The simplest null models for networks, used to distinguish significant
features of a particular network from {\it a priori} expected features, are
random ensembles with the degree sequence fixed by the specific network of
interest. These "fixed degree sequence" (FDS) ensembles are, however, famously
resistant to analytic attack. In this paper we introduce ensembles with
partially-fixed degree sequences (PFDS) and compare analytic results obtained
for them with Monte Carlo results for the FDS ensemble. These results include
link likelihoods, subgraph likelihoods, and degree correlations. We find that
local structural features in the FDS ensemble can be reasonably well estimated
by simultaneously fixing only the degrees of few nodes, in addition to the
total number of nodes and links. As test cases we use a food web, two protein
interaction networks (\textit{E. coli, S. cerevisiae}), the internet on the
autonomous system (AS) level, and the World Wide Web. Fixing just the degrees
of two nodes gives the mean neighbor degree as a function of node degree,
$<k'>_k$, in agreement with results explicitly obtained from rewiring. For
power law degree distributions, we derive the disassortativity analytically. In
the PFDS ensemble the partition function can be expanded diagrammatically. We
obtain an explicit expression for the link likelihood to lowest order, which
reduces in the limit of large, sparse undirected networks with $L$ links and
with $k_{\rm max} \ll L$ to the simple formula $P(k,k') = kk'/(2L + kk')$. In a
similar limit, the probability for three nodes to be linked into a triangle
reduces to the factorized expression $P_{\Delta}(k_1,k_2,k_3) =
P(k_1,k_2)P(k_1,k_3)P(k_2,k_3)$.