Big data open up unprecedented opportunities to investigate complex systems
including the society. In particular, communication data serve as major sources
for computational social sciences but they have to be cleaned and filtered as
they may contain spurious information due to recording errors as well as
interactions, like commercial and marketing activities, not directly related to
the social network. The network constructed from communication data can only be
considered as a proxy for the network of social relationships. Here we apply a
systematic method, based on multiple hypothesis testing, to statistically
validate the links and then construct the corresponding Bonferroni network,
generalized to the directed case. We study two large datasets of mobile phone
records, one from Europe and the other from China. For both datasets we compare
the raw data networks with the corresponding Bonferroni networks and point out
significant differences in the structures and in the basic network measures. We
show evidence that the Bonferroni network provides a better proxy for the
network of social interactions than the original one. By using the filtered
networks we investigated the statistics and temporal evolution of small
directed 3-motifs and conclude that closed communication triads have a
formation time-scale, which is quite fast and typically intraday. We also find
that open communication triads preferentially evolve to other open triads with
a higher fraction of reciprocated calls. These stylized facts were observed for
both datasets.