Cognitive radio (CR) technology is a promising solution to enhance the
spectrum utilization by enabling unlicensed users to exploit the spectrum in an
opportunistic manner. Since unlicensed users are temporary visitors to the
licensed spectrum, they are required to vacate the spectrum when a licensed
user reclaims it. Due to the randomness of the appearance of licensed users,
disruptions to both licensed and unlicensed communications are often difficult
to prevent. In this chapter, a proactive spectrum handoff framework for CR ad
hoc networks is proposed to address these concerns. In the proposed framework,
channel switching policies and a proactive spectrum handoff protocol are
proposed to let unlicensed users vacate a channel before a licensed user
utilizes it to avoid unwanted interference. Network coordination schemes for
unlicensed users are also incorporated into the spectrum handoff protocol
design to realize channel rendezvous. Moreover, a distributed channel selection
scheme to eliminate collisions among unlicensed users is proposed. In our
proposed framework, unlicensed users coordinate with each other without using a
common control channel. We compare our proposed proactive spectrum handoff
protocol with a reactive spectrum handoff protocol, under which unlicensed
users switch channels after collisions with licensed transmissions occur.
Simulation results show that our proactive spectrum handoff outperforms the
reactive spectrum handoff approach in terms of higher throughput and fewer
collisions to licensed users. In addition, we propose a novel three dimensional
discrete-time Markov chain to characterize the process of reactive spectrum
handoffs and analyze the performance of unlicensed users. We validate the
numerical results obtained from our proposed Markov model against simulation
and investigate other parameters of interest in the spectrum handoff scenario.