Context: Subcritical transition to turbulence has been proposed as a source
of turbulent viscosity required for the associated angular momentum transport
for fast accretion in Keplerian disks. Previously cited laboratory experiments
in supporting this hypothesis were performed either in a different type of flow
than Keplerian or without quantitative measurements of angular momentum
transport and mean flow profile, and all of them appear to suffer from Ekman
effects, secondary flows induced by nonoptimal axial boundary conditions. Such
Ekman effects are expected to be absent from astronomical disks, which probably
have stress-free vertical boundaries unless strongly magnetized. Aims: To
quantify angular momentum transport due to subcritical hydrodynamic turbulence,
if exists, in a quasi-Keplerian flow with minimized Ekman effects. Methods: We
perform a local measurement of the azimuthal--radial component of the Reynolds
stress tensor in a novel laboratory apparatus where Ekman effects are minimized
by flexible control of axial boundary conditions. Results: We find significant
Ekman effects on angular momentum transport due to nonoptimal axial boundary
conditions in quasi-Keplerian flows. With the optimal control of Ekman effects,
no statistically meaningful angular momentum transport is detected in such
flows at Reynolds number up to two millions. Conclusions: Either a subcritical
transition does not occur, or, if a subcritical transition does occur, the
associated radial transport of angular momentum in optimized quasi-Keplerian
laboratory flows is too small to directly support the hypothesis that
subcritical hydrodynamic turbulence is responsible for accretion in
astrophysical disks. Possible limitations in applying laboratory results to
astrophysical disks due to experimental geometry are discussed.