Convection inside the magnetosphere can be regarded as the transfer of
magnetic flux and plasma from the magnetotail into the nightside and then
convection and drift from there to the dayside. As in many fluid flow
situations, the downstream flow (the convection and drift to the dayside) is an
important boundary condition for the upstream flow (reconnection and inflow
from the tail). Tail-like flux tubes in the near-earth plasma sheet block
inflow from the tail between reconnection events. However, the westward drift
of the energetic ions (curvature and gradient drift and ExB drift) removes
plasma energy from near midnight causing deflation and earthward flow in the
equatorial plane. (The process can be described as the westward drift of the
eastern of the plasma sheet / partial ring current.) The earthward flow removes
magnetic flux and plasma from the center of the thick plasma sheet and creates
a thin current sheet, which, in turn, favors the onset of reconnection. The X
line forms just tailward of the earthward-flow region. Initially, reconnection
occurs by the earthward propagation of the X line and the growth of a magnetic
island on its tailward side, since there is no downtail flow. Subsequently, the
system evolves towards lobe merging, and the X line propagates tailward
consistent with the standard picture of tail reconnection. The east-west width
of the local-time slot in which inflow and reconnection occur is determined by
the scale-length of the decrease in plasma energy at the eastern end of the
drifting ions. It is expected that the reconnection slot follows the westward
drift of the eastern end of the partial ring current. The model appears to be
consistent with bursty bulk flows, the westward traveling surge and many other
observed properties of substorms.