The GIPSY system provides a framework for a distributed multi-tier
demand-driven evaluation of heterogeneous programs, in which certain tiers can
generate demands, while others can respond to demands to work on them. They are
connected through a virtual network that can be flexibly reconfigured at
run-time. Although the demand generator components were originally designed
specifically for the eductive (demand-driven) evaluation of Lucid intensional
programs, the GIPSY's run-time's flexible framework design enables it to
perform the execution of various kinds of programs that can be evaluated using
the demand-driven computational model. Management of the GISPY networks has
become a tedious (although scripted) task that took manual command-line console
to do, which does not scale for large experiments. Therefore a new component
has been designed and developed to allow users to represent, visualize, and
interactively create, configure and seamlessly manage such a network as a
graph. Consequently, this work presents a Graphical GMT Manager, an interactive
graph-based assistant component for the GIPSY network creation and
configuration management. Besides allowing the management of the nodes and
tiers (mapped to hosts where store, workers, and generators reside), it lets
the user to visually control the network parameters and the interconnection
between computational nodes at run-time. In this paper we motivate and present
the key features of this newly implemented graph-based component. We give the
graph representation details, mapping of the graph nodes to tiers, tier groups,
and specific commands. We provide the requirements and design specification of
the tool and its implementation. Then we detail and discuss some experimental
results.