The large-scale/long-time transport of inertial particles of arbitrary mass
density under gravity is investigated by means of a formal multiple-scale
perturbative expansion in the scale-separation parametre between the carrier
flow and the particle concentration field. The resulting large-scale equation
for the particle concentration is determined, and is found to be diffusive with
a positive-definite eddy diffusivity. The calculation of the latter tensor is
reduced to the resolution of an auxiliary differential problem, consisting of a
coupled set of two differential equations in a (6+1)-dimensional coordinate
system (3 space coordinates plus 3 velocity coordinates plus time). Although
expensive, numerical methods can be exploited to obtain the eddy diffusivity,
for any desirable non-perturbative limit (e.g. arbitrary Stokes and Froude
numbers). The aforementioned large-scale equation is then specialized to deal
with two different relevant perturbative limits: i) vanishing of both Stokes
time and sedimenting particle velocity; ii) vanishing Stokes time and finite
sedimenting particle velocity. Both asymptotics lead to a greatly simplified
auxiliary differential problem, now involving only space coordinates and thus
easy to be tackled by standard numerical techniques. Explicit, exact
expressions for the eddy diffusivities have been calculated, for both
asymptotics, for the class of parallel flows, both static and time-dependent.
This allows us to investigate analytically the role of gravity and inertia on
the diffusion process by varying relevant features of the carrier flow, as e.g.
the form of its temporal correlation function. Our results exclude a universal
role played by gravity and inertia on the diffusive behaviour: regimes of both
enhanced and reduced diffusion may exist, depending on the detailed structure
of the carrier flow.