The Ising model in clustered scale-free networks has been studied by Monte
Carlo simulations. These networks are characterized by a degree distribution of
the form P(k) ~ k^(-gamma) for large k. Clustering is introduced in the
networks by inserting triangles, i.e., triads of connected nodes. The
transition from a ferromagnetic (FM) to a paramagnetic (PM) phase has been
studied as a function of the exponent gamma and the triangle density. For gamma
> 3 our results are in line with earlier simulations, and a phase transition
appears at a temperature T_c(gamma) in the thermodynamic limit (system size N
to infinity). For gamma <= 3, a FM-PM crossover appears at a size-dependent
temperature T_co, so that the system remains in a FM state at any finite
temperature in the limit N to infinity. Thus, for gamma = 3, T_co scales as ln
N, whereas for gamma < 3, we find T_co ~ J N^z, where the exponent z decreases
for increasing gamma. Adding motifs (triangles in our case) to the networks
causes an increase in the transition (or crossover) temperature for exponent
gamma > 3 (or <= 3). For gamma > 3, this increase is due to changes in the mean
values < k > and < k^2 >, i.e., the transition is controlled by the degree
distribution (nearest neighbor connectivities). For gamma <= 3, however, we
find that clustered and unclustered networks with the same size and
distribution P(k) have different crossover temperature, i.e., clustering favors
FM correlations, thus increasing the temperature T_co. The effect of a degree
cutoff k_cut on the asymptotic behavior of T_co is discussed.