The evolving fifth generation (5G) cellular wireless networks are envisioned
to overcome the fundamental challenges of existing cellular networks, e.g.,
higher data rates, excellent end-to-end performance and user-coverage in
hot-spots and crowded areas with lower latency, energy consumption and cost per
information transfer. To address these challenges, 5G systems need to adopt a
multi-tier architecture consisting of macrocells, different types of licensed
small cells, relays, and device-to-device (D2D) networks to serve users with
different quality-of-service (QoS) requirements in a spectrum and
energy-efficient manner. Starting with the visions and requirements of 5G
multi-tier networks, this article outlines the challenges of interference
management (e.g., power control, cell association) in these networks with
shared spectrum access (i.e., when the different network tiers shares the same
licensed spectrum). It is argued that the existing interference management
schemes will not be able to address the interference management problem in
prioritized 5G multi-tier networks where users in different tiers have
different priorities for channel access. In this context, a survey and
qualitative comparison of the potential existing cell association and power
control schemes is provided to demonstrate their limitations for interference
management in 5G networks. Open challenges are highlighted and guidelines are
provided to modify the existing schemes in order to overcome these limitations
and make them suitable for the emerging 5G systems.