Biological rhythms are generated by pacemaker organs, such as the heart
pacemaker organ (the sinoatrial node) and the master clock of the circadian
rhythms (the suprachiasmatic nucleus), which are composed of a network of
autonomously oscillatory cells. Such biological rhythms have notable
periodicity despite the internal and external noise present in each cell.
Previous experimental studies indicate that the regularity of oscillatory
dynamics is enhanced when noisy oscillators interact and become synchronized.
This effect, called the collective enhancement of temporal precision, has been
studied theoretically using particular assumptions. In this study, we propose a
general theoretical framework that enables us to understand the dependence of
temporal precision on network parameters including size, connectivity, and
coupling intensity; this effect has been poorly understood to date. Our
framework is based on a phase oscillator model that is applicable to general
oscillator networks with any coupling mechanism if coupling and noise are
sufficiently weak. In particular, we can manage general directed and weighted
networks. We quantify the precision of the activity of a single cell and the
mean activity of an arbitrary subset of cells. We find that, in general
undirected networks, the standard deviation of cycle-to-cycle periods scales
with the system size $N$ as $1/\sqrt{N}$, but only up to a certain system size
$N^*$ that depends on network parameters. Enhancement of temporal precision is
ineffective when $N>N^*$. We also reveal the advantage of long-range
interactions among cells to temporal precision.