The genomic reality is a highly complex and dynamic system. The recent
development of high-throughput technologies has enabled researchers to measure
the abundance of many genes (in the order of thousands) simultaneously. The
challenge is to unravel from such measurements, gene/protein or gene/gene or
protein/ protein interactions and key biological features of cellular systems.
Our goal is to devise a method for inferring transcriptional or gene regulatory
networks from high-throughput data sources such as gene expression microarrays
with potentially hidden states, such as unmeasured transcription factors (TFs),
which satisfies certain Markov properties. We propose a dynamic state space
representation. Our method is based on an EM algorithm with an incorporated
Kalman smoothing algorithm in the E-step, a bootstrap for confidence intervals
to infer the networks and the AIC for model selection. The state space model is
an approach with proven effectiveness to reverse engineer transcriptional
networks. The proposed method is applied to time course microarray data
obtained from well established T-cell. When we applied the method to the T-cell
data, we obtained 4, as the optimum number of hidden states. Our results
support interesting biological properties in the family of Jun genes. The
following genes were mostly seen as regulatory genes. These genes includes FYB,
CCNA2, AKT1, TRAF5, CASP4, and CTNNB1. We found interaction between Jun-B and
SMN1, and CDC2 activates Jun-D. We found few significant interactions or
one-to-one correspondence among the 4 putative transcription factors. Among the
important key genes in terms of outward-directed edges, we found genes such as
CCNA2, JUNB, CDC2, CASP4, JUND to have a high degree of connectivity. R
Computer source code is made available at our website at
http://www.math.rug.nl/stat/Main/Software.