Network alignment can be used to transfer functional knowledge between
conserved regions of different networks. Typically, existing methods use a node
cost function (NCF) to compute similarity between nodes in different networks
and an alignment strategy (AS) to find high-scoring alignments with respect to
the total NCF over all aligned nodes (or node conservation). But, they then
evaluate quality of their alignments via some other measure that is different
than the node conservation measure used to guide the alignment construction
process. Typically, one measures the amount of conserved edges, but only after
alignments are produced. Hence, a recent attempt aimed to directly maximize the
amount of conserved edges while constructing alignments, which improved
alignment accuracy. Here, we aim to directly maximize both node and edge
conservation during alignment construction to further improve alignment
accuracy. For this, we design a novel measure of edge conservation that (unlike
existing measures that treat each conserved edge the same) weighs each
conserved edge so that edges with highly NCF-similar end nodes are favored. As
a result, we introduce a novel AS, Weighted Alignment VotEr (WAVE), which can
optimize any measures of node and edge conservation, and which can be used with
any NCF or combination of multiple NCFs. Using WAVE on top of established
state-of-the-art NCFs leads to superior alignments compared to the existing
methods that optimize only node conservation or only edge conservation or that
treat each conserved edge the same. And while we evaluate WAVE in the
computational biology domain, it is easily applicable in any domain.