We consider the problem of locating a facility on a network, represented by a
graph. A set of strategic agents have different ideal locations for the
facility; the cost of an agent is the distance between its ideal location and
the facility. A mechanism maps the locations reported by the agents to the
location of the facility. Specifically, we are interested in social choice
mechanisms that do not utilize payments. We wish to design mechanisms that are
strategyproof, in the sense that agents can never benefit by lying, or, even
better, group strategyproof, in the sense that a coalition of agents cannot all
benefit by lying. At the same time, our mechanisms must provide a small
approximation ratio with respect to one of two optimization targets: the social
cost or the maximum cost.
  We give an almost complete characterization of the feasible truthful
approximation ratio under both target functions, deterministic and randomized
mechanisms, and with respect to different network topologies. Our main results
are: We show that a simple randomized mechanism is group strategyproof and
gives a (2-2/n)-approximation for the social cost, where n is the number of
agents, when the network is a circle (known as a ring in the case of computer
networks); we design a novel "hybrid" strategyproof randomized mechanism that
provides a tight approximation ratio of 3/2 for the maximum cost when the
network is a circle; and we show that no randomized SP mechanism can provide an
approximation ratio better than 2-o(1) to the maximum cost even when the
network is a tree, thereby matching a trivial upper bound of two.