With the rapid development of online social media, online shopping sites and
cyber-physical systems, heterogeneous information networks have become
increasingly popular and content-rich over time. In many cases, such networks
contain multiple types of objects and links, as well as different kinds of
attributes. The clustering of these objects can provide useful insights in many
applications. However, the clustering of such networks can be challenging since
(a) the attribute values of objects are often incomplete, which implies that an
object may carry only partial attributes or even no attributes to correctly
label itself; and (b) the links of different types may carry different kinds of
semantic meanings, and it is a difficult task to determine the nature of their
relative importance in helping the clustering for a given purpose. In this
paper, we address these challenges by proposing a model-based clustering
algorithm. We design a probabilistic model which clusters the objects of
different types into a common hidden space, by using a user-specified set of
attributes, as well as the links from different relations. The strengths of
different types of links are automatically learned, and are determined by the
given purpose of clustering. An iterative algorithm is designed for solving the
clustering problem, in which the strengths of different types of links and the
quality of clustering results mutually enhance each other. Our experimental
results on real and synthetic data sets demonstrate the effectiveness and
efficiency of the algorithm.