Traditionally, the deformation of continuum is divided into elastic, plastic,
and flow. For a large deformation with cracking, they are combined together.
So, for complicated deformation, a formulation to express the evolution of
deformation from elastic to flow will help to understand the intrinsic relation
among the related parameters which relate the deformation with a stress field.
To this purpose, Eringen polar decomposition and Trusedell polar decomposition
are formulated by explicit formulation of displacement field, based on Chen
additive decomposition of deformation gradient. Then the strain introduced by
the multiplicative decomposition and the strain introduced by the additive
decomposition are formulated explicitly with displacement gradient. This
formulation clears the intrinsic contents of strains defined by taking the
Eringen polar decomposition and Trusedell polar decomposition. After that, it
shows that the plastic deformation can be expressed as the irreversible local
average rotation. For initial isotropic simple elastic material, the
path-dependent feature of classical plasticity theory is naturally expressed in
Chen strain definition. It is founded that for initially isotropic material the
motion equations require a non-symmetric stress for dynamic deformation and a
symmetric stress for static deformation. This controversy between dynamic
deformation and static deformation can be used to explain the cracking or
buckling of solid continuum. Finally, the research shows that the flow motion
of continuum can be expressed by the same formulation system. So, it forms an
evolution theory from elastic deformation to flow of continuum.