Folksonomy is said to provide a democratic tagging system that reflects the
opinions of the general public, but it is not a classification system and it is
hard to make sense of. It would be necessary to share a representation of
contexts by all the users to develop a social and collaborative matching. The
solution could be to help the users to choose proper tags thanks to a dynamical
driven system of folksonomy that could evolve during the time. This paper uses
a cluster analysis to measure a new concept of a structure called
"Folksodriven", which consists of tags, source and time. Many approaches
include in their goals the use of folksonomy that could evolve during time to
evaluate characteristics. This paper describes an alternative where the goal is
to develop a weighted network of tags where link strengths are based on the
frequencies of tag co-occurrence, and studied the weight distributions and
connectivity correlations among nodes in this network. The paper proposes and
analyzes the network structure of the Folksodriven tags thought as folksonomy
tags suggestions for the user on a dataset built on chosen websites. It is
observed that the hypergraphs of the Folksodriven are highly connected and that
the relative path lengths are relatively low, facilitating thus the
serendipitous discovery of interesting contents for the users. Then its
characteristics, Clustering Coefficient, is compared with random networks. The
goal of this paper is a useful analysis of the use of folksonomies on some well
known and extensive web sites with real user involvement. The advantages of the
new tagging method using folksonomy are on a new interesting method to be
employed by a knowledge management system.
  *** This paper has been accepted to the International Conference on Social
Computing and its Applications (SCA 2011) - Sydney Australia, 12-14 December
2011 ***