The intriguing nature of classical Homeric narratives has always fascinated
the occidental culture contributing to philosophy, history, mythology and
straight forwardly to literature. However what would be so intriguing about
Homer's narratives' At a first gaze we shall recognize the very literal appeal
and aesthetic pleasure presented on every page across Homer's chants in Odyssey
and rhapsodies in Iliad. Secondly we may perceive a biased aspect of its
stories contents, varying from real-historical to fictional-mythological. To
encompass this glance, there are some new archeological finding that supports
historicity of some events described within Iliad, and consequently to Odyssey.
Considering these observations and using complex network theory concepts, we
managed to built and analyze a social network gathered across the classical
epic, Odyssey of Homer. Longing for further understanding, topological
quantities were collected in order to classify its social network qualitatively
into real or fictional. It turns out that most of the found properties belong
to real social networks besides assortativity and giant component's size. In
order to test the network's possibilities to be real, we removed some
mythological members that could imprint a fictional aspect on the network.
Carrying on this maneuver the modified social network resulted on assortative
mixing and reduction of the giant component, as expected for real social
networks. Overall we observe that Odyssey might be an amalgam of fictional
elements plus real based human relations, which corroborates other contributor's
findings for Iliad and archeological evidences.