In this paper, we propose some new notions to characterize and analyze the
communities. The new notions are general characters of the communities or local
structures of networks. At first, we introduce the notions of internal
dominating set and external dominating set of a community. We show that most
communities in real networks have a small internal dominating set and a small
external dominating set, and that the internal dominating set of a community
keeps much of the information of the community. Secondly, based on the notions
of the internal dominating set and the external dominating set, we define an
internal slope (ISlope, for short) and an external slope (ESlope, for short) to
measure the internal heterogeneity and external heterogeneity of a community
respectively. We show that the internal slope (ISlope) of a community largely
determines the structure of the community, that most communities in real
networks are heterogeneous, meaning that most of the communities have a
core/periphery structure, and that both ISlopes and ESlopes (reflecting the
structure of communities) of all the communities of a network approximately
follow a normal distribution. Therefore typical values of both ISolpes and
ESoples of all the communities of a given network are in a narrow interval, and
there is only a small number of communities having ISlopes or ESlopes out of
the range of typical values of the ISlopes and ESlopes of the network. Finally,
we show that all the communities of the real networks we studied, have a three
degree separation phenomenon, that is, the average distance of communities is
approximately 3, implying a general property of true communities for many real
networks, and that good community finding algorithms find communities that
amplify clustering coefficients of the networks, for many real networks.