Results from a new series of experiments on turbulent flows in a rotating
circular container are presented. Electromagnetic forcing is applied to induce
flow in a layer of fluid of constant depth. Continuously forced as well as
decaying flows are investigated. Optical altimetry is used to measure the
gradient of the surface elevation field and to obtain the velocity and
vorticity fields with high temporal and spatial resolution. Spectral analysis
of the flows demonstrates the formation of dual cascade with energy and
enstrophy intervals although the corresponding spectral fluxes of energy and
enstrophy are not uniform in these intervals. The energy interval is
characterized by the slope of approximately -5/3 in terms of wavenumber and is
limited in extent by the finite radius of deformation effect. In the enstrophy
range, the slope is steeper than -3 due to the presence of long-lived coherent
vortices. The spatial patterns of spectral fluxes in the flow indicate that
inverse energy transfer and direct enstrophy transfer occur mainly in elongated
vorticity patches. Cyclone/anticyclone asymmetry in favor of anticyclones is
observed in our flows. Dominance of anticyclones is most clear during the decay
phase of turbulence. The anticyclones remain circular while cyclonic vorticity
is stretched into elongated patches. Measurements show that skewness of
vorticity distribution increases with increasing Froude number of the flow.
Inertial and Kelvin waves are detected in our experiments; their
characteristics are analysed against the appropriate dispersion relations.