Dynamic networks models describe a growing number of important scientific
processes, from cell biology and epidemiology to sociology and finance. There
are many aspects of dynamical networks that require statistical considerations.
In this paper we focus on determining network structure. Estimating dynamic
networks is a difficult task since the number of components involved in the
system is very large. As a result, the number of parameters to be estimated is
bigger than the number of observations. However, a characteristic of many
networks is that they are sparse. For example, the molecular structure of genes
make interactions with other components a highly-structured and therefore
sparse process.
  Penalized Gaussian graphical models have been used to estimate sparse
networks. However, the literature has focussed on static networks, which lack
specific temporal constraints. We propose a structured Gaussian dynamical
graphical model, where structures can consist of specific time dynamics, known
presence or absence of links and block equality constraints on the parameters.
Thus, the number of parameters to be estimated is reduced and accuracy of the
estimates, including the identification of the network, can be tuned up. Here,
we show that the constrained optimization problem can be solved by taking
advantage of an efficient solver, logdetPPA, developed in convex optimization.
Moreover, model selection methods for checking the sensitivity of the inferred
networks are described. Finally, synthetic and real data illustrate the
proposed methodologies.