Cloud computing is increasingly attracting large attention in computing both
in academic research and in industrial initiatives. Emerging as a popular
paradigm and an attractive model of providing computing, information technology
(IT) infrastructure, network and storage to large and small enterprises both in
private and public sectors. This project was initiated and aimed at designing
and Setting up a basic Cloud lab Testbed running on Open stack under Virtual
box for experiments and Hosting Cloud Platforms in the networking laboratory at
the University of Bradford. This report presents the methodology of setting up
a cloud lab testbed for experiment running on open stack. Current resources, in
the Networking lab at the university were used and turned into virtual
platforms for cloud computing testing. This report serves as a practical
guideline, concentrating on the practical infrastructure related questions and
issues, on setting up a cloud lab for testing and proof of concept. Finally the
report proposes an experimental validation showing feasibility of migrating to
cloud.
  The primary focus of this report is to provide a brief background on
different theoretical concepts of cloud computing, particularly virtualisation,
and then it elaborates on the practical aspects concerning the setup and
implementation of a Cloud lab test bed using open source solutions. This
reports serves as a reference for institutions looking at the possibilities of
implementing cloud solutions, in order to benefit from getting the basics and a
view on the different aspects of cloud migration concepts.