Cloud is in the air. More and More companies and personals are connecting to
cloud with so many variety of offering provided by the companies. The cloud
services are based on Internet i.e. TCP IP. The paper discusses limitations of
one of the main existing network management protocol i.e. Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) with respect to the current network conditions. The
network traffic is growing at a high speed. When we talk about the networked
environment of cloud, the monitoring tool should be capable of handling the
traffic tribulations efficiently and represent a correct scenario of the
network condition. The proposed Model Cloud Network Management Model provides a
comprehensive solution to manage the growing traffic in cloud and trying to
improve communication of manager and agents as in SNMP (the traditional TCP IP
network management protocol). Firstly CNMM concentrates on reduction of packet
exchange between manager and agent. Secondly it eliminates the counter problems
exist in SNMP by having periodic updates from agent without querying by the
manager. For better management we are including managers using virtualized
technology. CNMM is a proposed model with efficient communication, secure
packet delivery and reduced traffic. Though the proposed model supposed to
manage the cloud traffic in a better and efficient way, the model is still a
theoretical study, its implementation and results are yet to discover. The
model however is the first step towards development of supported algorithms and
protocol. Our further study will concentrate on development of supported
algorithms.