Large scale simulations of the movements of people in a ``virtual'' city and
their analyses are used to generate new insights into understanding the dynamic
processes that depend on the interactions between people. Models, based on
these interactions, can be used in optimizing traffic flow, slowing the spread
of infectious diseases or predicting the change in cell phone usage in a
disaster. We analyzed cumulative and aggregated data generated from the
simulated movements of 1.6 million individuals in a computer (pseudo
agent-based) model during a typical day in Portland, Oregon. This city is
mapped into a graph with $181,206$ nodes representing physical locations such
as buildings. Connecting edges model individual's flow between nodes. Edge
weights are constructed from the daily traffic of individuals moving between
locations. The number of edges leaving a node (out-degree), the edge weights
(out-traffic), and the edge-weights per location (total out-traffic) are fitted
well by power law distributions. The power law distributions also fit subgraphs
based on work, school, and social/recreational activities. The resulting
weighted graph is a ``small world'' and has scaling laws consistent with an
underlying hierarchical structure. We also explore the time evolution of the
largest connected component and the distribution of the component sizes. We
observe a strong linear correlation between the out-degree and total
out-traffic distributions and significant levels of clustering. We discuss how
these network features can be used to characterize social networks and their
relationship to dynamic processes.