L (Logarithmic space) versus NL (Non-deterministic logarithmic space) is one
of the great open problems in computational complexity theory. In the paper
"Bounds on monotone switching networks for directed connectivity", we separated
monotone analogues of L and NL using a model called the switching network
model. In particular, by considering inputs consisting of just a path and
isolated vertices, we proved that any monotone switching network solving
directed connectivity on $N$ vertices must have size at least
$N^{\Omega(\lg(N))}$ and this bound is tight. If we could show a similar result
for general switching networks solving directed connectivity, then this would
prove that $L \neq NL$. However, proving lower bounds for general switching
networks solving directed connectivity requires proving stronger lower bounds
on monotone switching networks for directed connectivity. To work towards this
goal, we investigated a different set of inputs which we believed to be hard
for monotone switching networks to solve and attempted to prove similar lower
size bounds. Instead, we found that this set of inputs is actually easy for
monotone switching networks for directed connectivity to solve, yet if we
restrict ourselves to certain-knowledge switching networks, which are a simple
and intuitive subclass of monotone switching networks for directed
connectivity, then these inputs are indeed hard to solve. In this paper, we
give this set of inputs, demonstrate a "weird" polynomially-sized monotone
switching network for directed connectivity which solves this set of inputs,
and prove that no polynomially-sized certain-knowledge switching network can
solve this set of inputs, thus proving that monotone switching networks for
directed connectivity are strictly more powerful than certain-knowledge
switching networks.