In two-tiered Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) relay node placement is one of
the key factors impacting the network energy consumption and the system
overhead. In this paper, a novel connectivity-aware approximation algorithm for
relay node placement in WSNs is proposed to offer a major step forward in
saving system overhead. Specifically, a unique Local Search Approximation
Algorithm (LSAA) is introduced to solve the Relay Node Single Cover (RNSC)
problem. In this proposed LSAA approach, the sensor nodes are allocated into
groups and then a local Set Cover (SC) for each group is achieved by a local
search algorithm. The union set of all local SCs constitutes a SC of the RNSC
problem. The approximation ratio and the time complexity of the LSAA are
analyzed by rigorous proof. Additionally, the LSAA approach has been extended
to solve the relay node double cover problem. Then, a Relay Location Selection
Algorithm (RLSA) is proposed to utilize the resulting SC from LSAA in combining
RLSA with the minimum spanning tree heuristic to build the high-tier
connectivity. As the RLSA searches for a nearest location to the sink node for
each relay node, the high-tier network built by RLSA becomes denser than that
by existing works. As a result, the number of added relay nodes for building
the connectivity of the high-tier WSN can be significantly saved. Simulation
results clearly demonstrate that the proposed LSAA outperforms the approaches
reported in literature and the RLSA-based algorithm can noticeably save relay
nodes newly deployed for the high-tier connectivity.