We use hydrodynamics to investigate non-stationary channel flows of freely
cooling dilute granular gases. We focus on the regime where the sound travel
time through the channel is much shorter than the characteristic cooling time
of the gas. As a result, the gas pressure rapidly becomes almost homogeneous,
while the typical Mach number of the flow drops well below unity. Eliminating
the acoustic modes, we reduce the hydrodynamic equations to a single nonlinear
and nonlocal equation of a reaction-diffusion type in Lagrangian coordinates.
This equation describes a broad class of channel flows and, in particular, can
follow the development of the clustering instability from a weakly perturbed
homogeneous cooling state to strongly nonlinear states. If the heat diffusion
is neglected, the reduced equation is exactly soluble, and the solution
develops a finite-time density blowup. The heat diffusion, however, becomes
important near the attempted singularity. It arrests the density blowup and
brings about novel inhomogeneous cooling states (ICSs) of the gas, where the
pressure continues to decay with time, while the density profile becomes
time-independent. Both the density profile of an ICS, and the characteristic
relaxation time towards it are determined by a single dimensionless parameter
that describes the relative role of the inelastic energy loss and heat
diffusion. At large values of this parameter, the intermediate cooling dynamics
proceeds as a competition between low-density regions of the gas. This
competition resembles Ostwald ripening: only one hole survives at the end.