The wireless sensor networks combines sensing, computation, and communication
into a single small device. These devices depend on battery power and may be
placed in hostile environments replacing them becomes a tedious task. Thus
improving the energy of these networks becomes important. Clustering in
wireless sensor network looks several challenges such as selection of an
optimal group of sensor nodes as cluster, optimum selection of cluster head,
energy balanced optimal strategy for rotating the role of cluster head in a
cluster, maintaining intra and inter cluster connectivity and optimal data
routing in the network.
  In this paper, we study a protocol supporting an energy efficient clustering,
cluster head selection and data routing method to extend the lifetime of sensor
network. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed protocol prolongs
network lifetime due to the use of efficient clustering, cluster head selection
and data routing. The results of simulation show that at the end of some
certain part of running the EECS and Fuzzy based clustering algorithm increases
the number of alive nodes comparing with the LEACH and HEED methods and this
can lead to an increase in sensor network lifetime. By using the EECS method
the total number of messages received at base station is increased when
compared with LEACH and HEED methods. The Fuzzy based clustering method
compared with the K-Means Clustering by means of iteration count and time taken
to die first node in wireless sensor network, as the result shows that the
fuzzy based clustering method perform well than kmeans clustering methods.