We present an analysis of the Chandra X-ray observation of Abell 2052,
including large scale properties of the cluster as well as the central region
which includes the bright radio source, 3C 317. We present temperature and
abundance profiles using both projected and deprojected spectral analyses. The
cluster shows the cooling flow signatures of excess surface brightness above a
beta- model at the cluster center, and a temperature decline into the center of
the cluster. The heavy element abundances initially increase into the center,
but decline within 30 arcsec. Temperature and abundance maps show that the
X-ray bright shells surrounding the radio source are the coolest and least
abundant regions in the cluster. The mass-deposition rate in the cooling flow
is 26 < Mdot < 42 Msun/yr. This rate is ~ a factor of three lower than the
rates found with previous X-ray observatories. Based on a stellar population
analysis using imaging and spectra at wavelengths spanning the far UV to the
NIR, we find a star formation rate of 0.6 Msun/yr within a 3 arcsec radius of
the nucleus of the central cluster galaxy. Total and gas mass profiles for the
cluster are also determined. We investigate additional sources of pressure in
the X-ray holes formed by the radio source, and limit the temperature of any
hot, diffuse, thermal component which provides the bulk of the pressure in the
holes to kT > 20 keV. We calculate the magnetic field in the bright-shell
region and find B ~ 11 \muG. The current luminosity of the central AGN is L_X =
7.9 x 10^41 erg/s, and its spectrum is well-fitted by a power-law model with no
excess absorption above the Galactic value. The energy output from several
radio outbursts, occurring episodically over the lifetime of the cluster, may
be sufficient to offset the cooling flow near the center. (Abridged)