The neocortex has a remarkably uniform neuronal organization, suggesting that
common principles of processing are employed throughout its extent. In
particular, the patterns of connectivity observed in the superficial layers of
the visual cortex are consistent with the recurrent excitation and inhibitory
feedback required for cooperative-competitive circuits such as the soft
winner-take-all (WTA). WTA circuits offer interesting computational properties
such as selective amplification, signal restoration, and decision making. But,
these properties depend on the signal gain derived from positive feedback, and
so there is a critical trade-off between providing feedback strong enough to
support the sophisticated computations, while maintaining overall circuit
stability. We consider the question of how to reason about stability in very
large distributed networks of such circuits. We approach this problem by
approximating the regular cortical architecture as many interconnected
cooperative-competitive modules. We demonstrate that by properly understanding
the behavior of this small computational module, one can reason over the
stability and convergence of very large networks composed of these modules. We
obtain parameter ranges in which the WTA circuit operates in a high-gain
regime, is stable, and can be aggregated arbitrarily to form large stable
networks. We use nonlinear Contraction Theory to establish conditions for
stability in the fully nonlinear case, and verify these solutions using
numerical simulations. The derived bounds allow modes of operation in which the
WTA network is multi-stable and exhibits state-dependent persistent activities.
Our approach is sufficiently general to reason systematically about the
stability of any network, biological or technological, composed of networks of
small modules that express competition through shared inhibition.