Recently in \cite{jss1}, the contributors have given a method for calculation of
the effective resistance (resistance distance) on distance-regular networks,
where the calculation was based on stratification introduced in \cite{js} and
Stieltjes transform of the spectral distribution (Stieltjes function)
associated with the network. Also, in Ref. \cite{jss1} it has been shown that
the resistance distances between a node $\alpha$ and all nodes $\beta$
belonging to the same stratum with respect to the $\alpha$
($R_{\alpha\beta^{(i)}}$, $\beta$ belonging to the $i$-th stratum with respect
to the $\alpha$) are the same. In this work, an algorithm for recursive
calculation of the resistance distances in an arbitrary distance-regular
resistor network is provided, where the derivation of the algorithm is based on
the Bose-Mesner algebra, stratification of the network, spectral techniques and
Christoffel-Darboux identity. It is shown that the effective resistance on a
distance-regular network is an strictly increasing function of the shortest
path distance defined on the network. In the other words, the two-point
resistance $R_{\alpha\beta^{(m+1)}}$ is strictly larger than
$R_{\alpha\beta^{(m)}}$. The link between the resistance distance and random
walks on distance-regular networks is discussed, where the average commute time
(CT) and its square root (called Euclidean commute time (ECT)) as a distance
are related to the effective resistance. Finally, for some important examples
of finite distance- regular networks, the resistance distances are calculated.
  {\bf Keywords: resistance distance, association scheme, stratification,
distance-regular networks, Christoffel-Darboux identity}
  {\bf PACs Index: 01.55.+b, 02.10.Yn}