Full sky surveys of peculiar velocity are arguably the best way to map the
large scale structure out to distances of a few times 100 Mpc/h. Using the
largest and most accurate ever catalog of galaxy peculiar velocities
"Cosmicflows-2", the large scale structure has been reconstructed by means of
the Wiener filter and constrained realizations assuming as a Bayesian prior
model the LCDM model with the WMAP inferred cosmological parameters. The
present paper focuses on studying the bulk flow of the local flow field,
defined as the mean velocity of top-hat spheres with radii ranging out to R=500
Mpc/h. The estimated large scale structures, in general, and the bulk flow, in
particular, are determined by the tension between the observational data and
the assumed prior model. A prerequisite for such an analysis is the requirement
that the estimated bulk flow is consistent with the prior model. Such a
consistency is found here. At R=50(150) Mpc/h the estimated bulk velocity is
250+/-21 (239+/-38) km/s. The corresponding cosmic variance at these radii is
126(60)km/s, which implies that these estimated bulk flows are dominated by the
data and not by the assumed prior model. The estimated bulk velocity is
dominated by the data out to R~200 Mpc/h, where the cosmic variance on the
individual Supergalactic Cartesian components (of the r.m.s. values) exceeds
the variance of the Constrained Realizations by at least a factor of 2. The
supergalactic SGX and SGY components of the CMB dipole velocity are recovered
by the Wiener filter velocity field down to a very few km/s. The SGZ component
of the estimated velocity, the one that is most affected by the Zone of
Avoidance, is off by 126 km/s (an almost 2 sigma discrepancy).