Grossglauser and Tse (2001) introduced a mobile random network model where
each node moves independently on a unit disk according to a stationary uniform
distribution and showed that a throughput of $\Theta(1)$ is achievable. El
Gamal, Mammen, Prabhakar and Shah (2004) showed that the delay associated with
this throughput scales as $\Theta(n\log n)$, when each node moves according to
an independent random walk. In a later work, Diggavi, Grossglauser and Tse
(2002) considered a random network on a sphere with a restricted mobility
model, where each node moves along a randomly chosen great circle on the unit
sphere. They showed that even with this one-dimensional restriction on
mobility, constant throughput scaling is achievable. Thus, this particular
mobility restriction does not affect the throughput scaling. This raises the
question whether this mobility restriction affects the delay scaling.
  This paper studies the delay scaling at $\Theta(1)$ throughput for a random
network with restricted mobility. First, a variant of the scheme presented by
Diggavi, Grossglauser and Tse (2002) is presented and it is shown to achieve
$\Theta(1)$ throughput using different (and perhaps simpler) techniques. The
exact order of delay scaling for this scheme is determined, somewhat
surprisingly, to be of $\Theta(n\log n)$, which is the same as that without the
mobility restriction. Thus, this particular mobility restriction \emph{does
not} affect either the maximal throughput scaling or the corresponding delay
scaling of the network. This happens because under this 1-D restriction, each
node is in the proximity of every other node in essentially the same manner as
without this restriction.