The World Trade Web (WTW) is a weighted network whose nodes correspond to
countries with edge weights reflecting the value of imports and/or exports
between countries. In this paper we introduce to this macroeconomic system the
notion of extinction analysis, a technique often used in the analysis of
ecosystems, for the purposes of investigating the robustness of this network.
In particular, we subject the WTW to a principled set of in silico "knockout
experiments," akin to those carried out in the investigation of food webs, but
suitably adapted to this macroeconomic network. Broadly, our experiments show
that over time the WTW moves to a "robust yet fragile" configuration where it
is robust to random failures but fragile under targeted attack. This change in
stability is highly correlated with the connectance (edge density) of the
network. Moreover, there is evidence of a sharp change in the structure of the
network in the 1960s and 1970s, where most measures of robustness rapidly
increase before resuming a declining trend. We interpret these results in the
context in the post-World War II move towards globalization. Globalization
coincides with the sharp increase in robustness but also with a rise in those
measures (e.g., connectance and trade imbalances) which correlate with
decreases in robustness. The peak of robustness is reached after the onset of
globalization policy but before the negative impacts are substantial. These
analyses depend on a simple model of dynamics that rebalances the trade flow
upon network perturbation, the most dramatic of which is node deletion. More
subtle and textured forms of perturbation lead to the definition of other
measures of node importance as well as vulnerability. We anticipate that
experiments and measures like these can play an important role in the
evaluation of the stability of economic systems.