We explore similarities and differences between several estimators of the
cosmological bulk flow, $\bf B$, from the observed radial peculiar velocities
of galaxies. A distinction is made between two theoretical definitions of $\bf
B$ as a dipole moment of the velocity field weighted by a radial window
function. One definition involves the three dimensional (3D) peculiar velocity,
while the other is based on its radial component alone. Different methods
attempt at inferring $\bf B$ for either of these definitions which coincide
only for a constant velocity field. We focus on the Wiener Filtering (WF,
Hoffman et al. 2015) and the Constrained Minimum Variance (CMV,Feldman et al.
2010) methodologies. Both methodologies require a prior expressed in terms of
the radial velocity correlation function. Hoffman et al. compute $\bf B$ in
Top-Hat windows from a WF realization of the 3D peculiar velocity field.
Feldman et al. infer $\bf B$ directly from the observed velocities for the
second definition of $\bf B$. The WF methodology could easily be adapted to the
second definition, in which case it will be equivalent to the CMV with the
exception of the imposed constraint. For a prior with vanishing correlations or
very noisy data, CMV reproduces the standard Maximum Likelihood (ML, Kaiser
1988) estimation for $\bf B$ of the entire sample independent of the radial
weighting function. Therefore, this estimator is likely more susceptible to
observational biases that could be present in measurements of distant galaxies.
Finally, two additional estimators are proposed.