Observation of coronal EUV spectral lines offers an opportunity to evaluate
the thermal structure and flows in flaring atmospheres. This, in turn, can be
used to estimate the partitioning between the thermal and kinetic energies
released in flares. Our aim is to forward-model large-scale (50-10000 km)
velocity distributions in order to interpret non-thermal broadening of
different spectral EUV lines observed in flares. The developed models allow us
to understand the origin of the observed spectral line shifts and broadening,
and link these features to particular physical phenomena in flaring
atmospheres. We use ideal MHD to derive unstable twisted magnetic fluxtube
configurations in a gravitationally-stratified atmosphere. The evolution of
these twisted fluxtubes is followed using resistive MHD, with anomalous
resistivity depending on the local density and temperature. The model also
takes into account the thermal conduction and radiative losses. The model
allows us to evaluate average velocities and velocity dispersions, which would
be detected as 'non-thermal' velocities in observations, at different
temperatures. Our models show qualitative and quantitative agreement with
observations. Thus, the line-of-sight (LOS) velocity dispersions demonstrate
substantial correlation with the temperature, increasing from about 20-30 km/s
around 1 MK to about 200-400 km/s near 10-20 MK. The average velocities also
correlate with velocity dispersions, although they demonstrate a very strong
scattering, compared to observations. We also note that near foot-points the
velocity dispersions across the magnetic field are systematically lower than
that along the field. We conclude, that the correlation between the flow
velocities, velocity dispersions and temperatures are likely to indicate that
the same heating mechanism is responsible for heating the plasma, its
turbulisation and expansion/evaporation.