Cancer invasion and metastasis depend on angiogenesis. The cellular processes
(growth, migration, and apoptosis) that occur during angiogenesis are tightly
regulated by signaling molecules. Thus, understanding how cells synthesize
multiple biochemical signals initiated by key external stimuli can lead to the
development of novel therapeutic strategies to combat cancer. In the face of
large amounts of disjoint experimental data generated from multitudes of
laboratories using various assays, theoretical signal transduction models
provide a framework to distill this vast amount of data. Such models offer an
opportunity to formulate and test new hypotheses, and can be used to make
experimentally verifiable predictions. This study is the first to propose a
network model that highlights the cross-talk between the key receptors involved
in angiogenesis, namely growth factor, integrin, and cadherin receptors. From
available experimental data, we construct a stochastic Boolean network model of
receptor cross-talk, and systematically analyze the dynamical stability of the
network under continuous-time Boolean dynamics with a noisy production
function. We find that the signal transduction network exhibits a robust and
fast response to external signals, independent of the internal cell state. We
derive an input-output table that maps external stimuli to cell phenotypes,
which is extraordinarily stable against molecular noise with one important
exception: an oscillatory feedback loop between the key signaling molecules
RhoA and Rac1 is unstable under arbitrarily low noise, leading to erratic,
dysfunctional cell motion. Finally, we show that the network exhibits an
apoptotic response rate that increases with noise, suggesting that the
probability of programmed cell death depends on cell health.