Stochastic modeling has become a popular approach to quantify uncertainty in
flows through heterogeneous porous media. The uncertainty in heterogeneous
structure properties is often parameterized by a high-dimensional random
variable. This leads to a deterministic problem in a high-dimensional parameter
space and the numerical computation becomes very challengeable as the dimension
of the parameter space increases. To efficiently tackle the
high-dimensionality, we propose a hybrid high dimensional model representation
(HDMR) technique, through which the high-dimensional stochastic model is
decomposed into a moderate-dimensional stochastic model in a most active random
space and a few one-dimensional stochastic models. The derived low-dimensional
stochastic models are solved by incorporating sparse grid stochastic
collocation method into the proposed hybrid HDMR. The porous media properties
such as permeability are often heterogeneous. To treat the heterogeneity, we
use a mixed multiscale finite element method (MMsFEM) to simulate each of
derived stochastic models. To capture the non-local spatial features of the
porous media and the important effects of random variables, we can
hierarchically incorporate the global information individually from each of
random parameters. This significantly enhances the accuracy of the multiscale
simulation. The synergy of the hybrid HDMR and the MMsFEM reduces the
stochastic model of flows in both stochastic space and physical space, and
significantly decreases the computation complexity. We carefully analyze the
proposed HDMR technique and the derived stochastic MMsFEM. A few numerical
experiments are carried out for two-phase flows in random porous media and
support the efficiency and accuracy of the MMsFEM based on the hybrid HDMR.