Recently, in Refs. \cite{jsj} and \cite{res2}, calculation of effective
resistances on distance-regular networks was investigated, where in the first
paper, the calculation was based on stratification and Stieltjes function
associated with the network, whereas in the latter one a recursive formula for
effective resistances was given based on the Christoffel-Darboux identity. In
this paper, evaluation of effective resistances on more general networks which
are underlying networks of association schemes is considered, where by using
the algebraic combinatoric structures of association schemes such as
stratification and Bose-Mesner algebras, an explicit formula for effective
resistances on these networks is given in terms of the parameters of
corresponding association schemes. Moreover, we show that for particular
underlying networks of association schemes with diameter $d$ such that the
adjacency matrix $A$ possesses $d+1$ distinct eigenvalues, all of the other
adjacency matrices $A_i$, $i\neq 0,1$ can be written as polynomials of $A$,
i.e., $A_i=P_i(A)$, where $P_i$ is not necessarily of degree $i$. Then, we use
this property for these particular networks and assume that all of the
conductances except for one of them, say $c\equiv c_1=1$, are zero to give a
procedure for evaluating effective resistances on these networks. The
preference of this procedure is that one can evaluate effective resistances by
using the structure of their Bose-Mesner algebra without any need to know the
spectrum of the adjacency matrices.