We present analytical and numerical solutions which describe a hot, viscous,
two-temperature accretion flow onto a rotating neutron star or any other
rotating compact star with a surface. We assume Coulomb coupling between the
protons and electrons, and free-free cooling from the electrons. Outside a thin
boundary layer, where the accretion flow meets the star, we show that there is
an extended settling region which is well-described by two self-similar
solutions: (i) a two-temperature solution which is valid in an inner zone
$r\le10^{2.5}$ ($r$ is in Schwarzchild units), and (ii) a one-temperature
solution at larger radii. In both zones, $\rho\propto r^{-2}, \Omega\propto
r^{-3/2}, v\propto r^0, T_p\propto r^{-1}$; in the two-temperature zone,
$T_e\propto r^{-1/2}$. The luminosity of the settling zone arises from the
rotational energy of the star as the star is braked by viscosity. Hence the
luminosity and the flow parameters (density, temperature, angular velocity) are
independent of $\dot M$. The settling solution described here is not
advection-dominated, and is thus different from the self-similar ADAF found
around black holes. When the spin of the star is small enough, however, the
present solution transforms smoothly to a (settling) ADAF.
  We carried out a stability analysis of the settling flow. The flow is
convectively and viscously stable and is unlikely to have strong winds or
outflows. Unlike another cooling-dominated system --- the SLE disk, --- the
settling flow is thermally stable provided that thermal conduction is taken
into account. This strong saturated-like thermoconduction does not change the
structure of the flow.