Currently, there is renewed interest in the problem, raised by Shafer in
1985, of updating probabilities when observations are incomplete. This is a
fundamental problem in general, and of particular interest for Bayesian
networks. Recently, Grunwald and Halpern have shown that commonly used updating
strategies fail in this case, except under very special assumptions. In this
paper we propose a new method for updating probabilities with incomplete
observations. Our approach is deliberately conservative: we make no assumptions
about the so-called incompleteness mechanism that associates complete with
incomplete observations. We model our ignorance about this mechanism by a
vacuous lower prevision, a tool from the theory of imprecise probabilities, and
we use only coherence arguments to turn prior into posterior probabilities. In
general, this new approach to updating produces lower and upper posterior
probabilities and expectations, as well as partially determinate decisions.
This is a logical consequence of the existing ignorance about the
incompleteness mechanism. We apply the new approach to the problem of
classification of new evidence in probabilistic expert systems, where it leads
to a new, so-called conservative updating rule. In the special case of Bayesian
networks constructed using expert knowledge, we provide an exact algorithm for
classification based on our updating rule, which has linear-time complexity for
a class of networks wider than polytrees. This result is then extended to the
more general framework of credal networks, where computations are often much
harder than with Bayesian nets. Using an example, we show that our rule appears
to provide a solid basis for reliable updating with incomplete observations,
when no strong assumptions about the incompleteness mechanism are justified.