Localized strongly Doppler-shifted Stokes V signals were detected by
IMaX/SUNRISE. These signals are related to newly emerged magnetic loops that
are observed as linear polarization features. We aim to set constraints on the
physical nature and causes of these highly Doppler-shifted signals. In
particular, the temporal relation between the appearance of transverse fields
and the strong Doppler shifts is analyzed in some detail. We calculated the
time difference between the appearance of the strong flows and the linear
polarization. We also obtained the distances from the center of various
features to the nearest neutral lines and whether they overlap or not. These
distances were compared with those obtained from randomly distributed points on
observed magnetograms. Various cases of strong flows are described in some
detail. The linear polarization signals precede the appearance of the strong
flows by on average 84+-11 seconds. The strongly Doppler-shifted signals are
closer (0.19") to magnetic neutral lines than randomly distributed points
(0.5"). Eighty percent of the strongly Doppler-shifted signals are close to a
neutral line that is located between the emerging field and pre-existing
fields. That the remaining 20% do not show a close-by pre-existing field could
be explained by a lack of sensitivity or an unfavorable geometry of the
pre-existing field, for instance, a canopy-like structure. Transverse fields
occurred before the observation of the strong Doppler shifts. The process is
most naturally explained as the emergence of a granular-scale loop that first
gives rise to the linear polarization signals, interacts with pre-existing
fields (generating new neutral line configurations), and produces the observed
strong flows. This explanation is indicative of frequent small-scale
reconnection events in the quiet Sun.