Context: In 2.2m MPG-ESO/WFI data we discovered several mass peaks through
weak lensing, forming a possible supercluster at redshift 0.45. Through
multi-colour wide-field imaging with CFHT/Megaprime and INT/WFC we identify
early-type galaxies and trace the supercluster network with them. Through
EMMI/NTT multi-object spectroscopy we verify the initial shear-selected cluster
candidates. Using weak lensing we obtain mass estimates for the supercluster
centre and the filaments.
  Results: We identified the centre of the SCL2243-0935 supercluster, MACS
J2243-0935, which was found independently by Ebeling et al. (2010). 13 more
clusters or overdensities are embedded in a filamentary network, half of them
are already spectroscopically confirmed. Three (5-15) Mpc filaments are
detected, and we estimate the global size of SCL2243 to 45x15x50 Mpc, making it
one of the largest superclusters known at intermediate redshifts. Weak lensing
yields r_200=(2.06+/-0.13) Mpc and M_200=(1.54+/-0.29)x10^15 M_sun for MACS
J2243 with M/L=428+/-82, very similar to results from size-richness cluster
scaling relations. Integrating the weak lensing surface mass density over the
supercluster network (defined by increased i-band luminosity or g-i colours),
we find (1.53+/-1.01)x10^15 M_sun and M/L=305+/-201 for the three main
filaments, consistant with theoretical predictions. The filaments' projected
surface mass density is 0.007-0.012, corresponding to 10-100 times the critical
density. The greatly varying density of the cosmic web is also reflected in the
mean colour of galaxies. Conclusions: SCL2243 is significantly larger and much
more richly structured than other known superclusters such as A901/902 or
MS0302 studied with weak lensing before. It is a text-book supercluster with
little contamination along the line of sight, making it a perfect sandbox for
testing new techniques probing the cosmic web.