We present global hydrodynamic and magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) simulations with
mesh refinement of accreting planets embedded in protoplanetary disks (PPDs).
The magnetized disk includes Ohmic resistivity that depends on the overlying
mass column, leading to turbulent surface layers and a dead zone near the
midplane. The main results are: (i) The accretion flow in the Hill sphere is
intrinsically 3D for hydrodynamic and MHD models. Net inflow toward the planet
is dominated by high latitude flows. A circumplanetary disk (CPD) forms. Its
midplane flows outward in a pattern whose details differ between models. (ii)
Gap opening magnetically couples and ignites the dead zone near the planet,
leading to stochastic accretion, a quasi-turbulent flow in the Hill sphere and
a CPD whose structure displays high levels of variability. (iii) Advection of
magnetized gas onto the rotating CPD generates helical fields that launch
magnetocentrifugally driven outflows. During one specific epoch a highly
collimated, one-sided jet is observed. (iv) The CPD's surface density
$\sim30{\rm\,g\,cm^{-2}}$, small enough for significant ionization and
turbulence to develop. (v) The accretion rate onto the planet in the MHD
simulation reaches a steady value $8 \times 10^{-3} {\rm M_\oplus yr^{-1}}$,
and is similar in the viscous hydrodynamic runs. Our results suggest that gas
accretion onto a forming giant planet within a magnetized PPD with dead zone
allows rapid growth from Saturnian to Jovian masses. As well as being relevant
for giant planet formation, these results have important implications for the
formation of regular satellites around gas giant planets.