We consider the problem of self-healing in reconfigurable networks (e.g.
peer-to-peer and wireless mesh networks) that are under repeated attack by an
omniscient adversary and propose a fully distributed algorithm, Xheal that
maintains good expansion and spectral properties of the network, also keeping
the network connected. Moreover, Xheal does this while allowing only low
stretch and degree increase per node. Thus, the algorithm heals global
properties while only doing local changes and using only local information.
  Our work improves over the self-healing algorithms 'Forgiving tree'[PODC
2008] and 'Forgiving graph'[PODC 2009] (using a similar model) in that we are
able to give guarantees on degree and stretch, while at the same time
preserving the expansion and spectral properties of the network. These repairs
preserve the invariants in the following sense. At any point in the algorithm,
the expansion of the graph will be either `better' than the expansion of the
graph formed by considering only the adversarial insertions (not the
adversarial deletions) or the expansion will be, at least, a constant. Also,
the stretch i.e. the distance between any pair of nodes in the healed graph is
no more than a $O(\log n)$ factor. Similarly, at any point, a node $v$ whose
degree would have been $d$ in the graph with adversarial insertions only, will
have degree at most $O(\kappa d)$ in the actual graph, for a small parameter
$\kappa$. We also provide bounds on the second smallest eigenvalue of the
Laplacian which captures key properties such as mixing time, conductance,
congestion in routing etc. Our distributed data structure has low amortized
latency and bandwidth requirements.