Rainfall induced landslides and soil erosion are part of a complex system of
multiple interacting processes, and both are capable of significantly affecting
sediment budgets. These sediment mass movements also have the potential to
significantly impact on a broad network of ecosystems health, functionality and
the services they provide. To support the integrated assessment of these
processes it is necessary to develop reliable modelling architectures. This
paper proposes a semi-quantitative integrated methodology for a robust
assessment of soil erosion rates in data poor regions affected by landslide
activity. It combines heuristic, empirical and probabilistic approaches. This
proposed methodology is based on the geospatial semantic array programming
paradigm and has been implemented on a catchment scale methodology using
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) spatial analysis tools and GNU Octave. The
integrated data-transformation model relies on a modular architecture, where
the information flow among modules is constrained by semantic checks. In order
to improve computational reproducibility, the geospatial data transformations
implemented in ESRI ArcGis are made available in the free software GRASS GIS.
The proposed modelling architecture is flexible enough for future
transdisciplinary scenario analysis to be more easily designed. In particular,
the architecture might contribute as a novel component to simplify future
integrated analyses of the potential impact of wildfires or vegetation types
and distributions, on sediment transport from water induced landslides and
erosion.