We present results from detailed imaging of the centrally dominant radio
elliptical galaxy in the cooling flow cluster Abell 2597, using data obtained
with the Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 (WFPC2) on the Hubble Space
Telescope (HST). This object is one of the archetypal "blue-lobed" cooling flow
radio elliptical galaxies, also displaying a luminous emission-line nebula, a
compact radio source, and a significant dust lane and evidence of molecular gas
in its center. We show that the radio source is surrounded by a complex network
of emission-line filaments, some of which display a close spatial association
with the outer boundary of the radio lobes. We present a detailed analysis of
the physical properties of ionized and neutral gas associated with the radio
lobes, and show that their properties are strongly suggestive of direct
interactions between the radio plasma and ambient gas. We resolve the blue
continuum emission into a series of knots and clumps, and present evidence that
these are most likely due to regions of recent star formation. We investigate
several possible triggering mechanisms for the star formation, including direct
interactions with the radio source, filaments condensing from the cooling flow,
or the result of an interaction with a gas-rich galaxy, which may also have
been responsible for fueling the active nucleus. We propose that the properties
of the source are plausibly explained in terms of accretion of gas by the cD
during an interaction with a gas-rich galaxy, which combined with the fact that
this object is located at the center of a dense, high-pressure ICM can account
for the high rates of star formation and the strong confinement of the radio
source.