The residual low angle grain boundary (GB) network is still the most
important current-limiting mechanism operating in bi-axially textured rare
earth barium copper oxide (REBCO) coated conductors. While Ca-doping is well
established to improve super-current flow across low angle GBs in weak fields
at high temperatures, Ca-doping also depresses Tc, making it so far impractical
for high temperature applications of REBCO coated conductors. On the other
hand, high field magnet applications of REBCO require low temperatures. Here we
systematically evaluate the effectiveness of Ca-doping in improving the GB
transparency, r$^{GB}$= Jc$^{GB}$/Jc$^{grain}$ , of low angle Yb1-xCaxBaCuO
[001] tilt bi-crystal films down to 10K and with magnetic fields perpendicular
and parallel to the film surfaces, while varying the Ca and oxygen doping
level. Using Low Temperature Scanning Laser Microscopy (LTSLM) and
Magneto-Optical Imaging (MOI), we found rGB to strongly depend on the angle
between magnetic field and the GB plane and clearly identified regimes in which
Jc$^{GB}$ can exceed Jc$^{grain}$ (r$^{GB}$>1) where the GB pinning is
optimized by the field being parallel to the GB dislocations. However, even in
this favorable situation, we found that r$^{GB}$ became much smaller at lower
temperatures. Calculations of the GB Ca segregation profile predict that the
high Jc channels between the GB dislocation cores are almost Ca-free. It may be
therefore that the positive effects of Ca doping seen by many contributors near Tc
are partly a consequence of the higher Tc of these Ca-free channels.