We propose a theoretical model for species that is focused on intrinsic
organization and processes. Specifically, we regard species to be networks of
organisms integrated by reproductive mechanisms (e.g., conjugation, meiosis,
syngamy) regardless of degree or type of divergence, longevity, size, fate, or
other criteria. Ramifications of viewing units of diversity in terms of
inherent organization include the following: (1) Species, subspecies,
population, deme, Evolutionary Significant Unit (ESU), and related terms cannot
be distinguished on the basis of inherent organization and, consequently, do
not reflect a hierarchy of organization. In other words, only one model is
required to explain systems composed of organisms. (2) Temporarily isolated
networks of organisms possess the same intrinsic organization and, therefore,
the same ontological status as permanently isolated systems. (3) Units of
diversity are recognized regardless of kind or degree of divergence. (4) Fate
is not an intrinsic property of systems and is an inappropriate consideration
in species models. (5) Networks are recognized at the moment they become
isolated; therefore, resultant classifications reflect the causal events that
generate diversity (e.g., vicariance) rather than post-vicariance events such
as character evolution and, consequently, have greater historical relevance
(e.g., biogeography). (6) Because the proposed model is based on organization,
it is similar to models in other disciplines (e.g., astronomy, chemistry, and
physics) and should lead to greater unification of thought within biology and
among scientific disciplines. (7) Lineage concepts are problematic because they
do not describe a unique level of biological organization and because
ancestor-descendant relationships are not unique to living systems.