Networks are a convenient way to represent complex systems of interacting
entities. Many networks contain "communities" of nodes that are more densely
connected to each other than to nodes in the rest of the network. In this
paper, we investigate the detection of communities in temporal networks
represented as multilayer networks. As a focal example, we study time-dependent
financial-asset correlation networks. We first argue that the use of the
"modularity" quality function---which is defined by comparing edge weights in
an observed network to expected edge weights in a "null network"---is
application-dependent. We differentiate between "null networks" and "null
models" in our discussion of modularity maximization, and we highlight that the
same null network can correspond to different null models. We then investigate
a multilayer modularity-maximization problem to identify communities in
temporal networks. Our multilayer analysis only depends on the form of the
maximization problem and not on the specific quality function that one chooses.
We introduce a diagnostic to measure \emph{persistence} of community structure
in a multilayer network partition. We prove several results that describe how
the multilayer maximization problem measures a trade-off between static
community structure within layers and higher values of persistence across
layers. We also discuss some implementation issues that the popular "Louvain"
heuristic faces with temporal multilayer networks and suggest ways to mitigate
them.