Two alternative current-induced switching geometries, in which the current
flows parallel to the magnet/nonmagnet interface, are investigated
theoretically using the nonequilibrium Keldysh theory. In the first geometry,
the current is perpendicular to the polarizing magnet/nonmagnet interface but
parallel to the nonmagnet/switching magnet interface (CPIP). In the second
geometry, the current is parallel to both the polarizing magnet/nonmagnet and
nonmagnet/switching magnet interfaces (CIP). Calculations for a single-orbital
tight binding model indicate that the spin current flowing parallel to the
switching magnet/nonmagnet interface can be absorbed by a lateral switching
magnet as efficiently as in the traditional current-perpendicular-to-plane
(CPP) geometry. The results of the model calculations are shown to be valid
also for experimentally relevant Co/Cu CPIP system described by fully realistic
tight binding bands fitted to an ab initio band structure. It is shown that
almost complete absorption of the incident spin current by a lateral switching
magnet occurs when the lateral dimensions of the switching magnet are of the
order of 50-100 interatomic distances, i.e., about 20nm and its height as small
as a few atomic planes. It is also demonstratedthat strong spin current
absorption in the CPIP/CIP geometry is not spoilt by the presence of a rough
interface between the switching magnet and nonmagnetic spacer. Polarization
achieved using a lateral magnet in the CIP geometry is found to be about 25% of
that in the traditional CPP geometry. The present CPIP calculations of the spin
transfer torque are also relevant to the so called pure-spin-current-induced
magnetization switching that had been recently observed.