We investigate whether it is possible to study perturbatively the transition
in cosmological clustering between a single streamed flow to a multi streamed
flow. We do this by considereing a system whose dynamics is governed by the
Zel'dovich approximation (ZA) and calculating the evolution of the two point
correlation function using two methods: 1.Distribution functions 2.Hydrodynamic
equations without pressure and vorticity. The latter method breaks down once
multistreaming occurs whereas the former does not. We find that the two methods
give the same results to all orders in a perturbative expansion of the two
point correlation function. We thus conclude that we cannot study the
transition from a single stream flow to a multi-stream flow in a perturbative
expansion. We expect this conclusion to hold even if we use the full
gravitational dynamics (GD) instead of ZA. We use ZA to look at the evolution
of the two point correlation function at large spatial separations and we find
that until the onset of multi-streaming the evolution can be described by a
diffusion process where the linear evolution at large scales gets modified by
the rearrangement of matter on small scales. We compare these results with the
lowest order nonlinear results from GD. We find that the difference is only in
the numerical value of the diffusion coefficient and we interpret this
physically. We also use ZA to study the induced three point correlation
function. At the lowest order we find that, as in the case of GD, the three
point correlation does not necessarily have the hierarchical form. We also find
that at large separations the effect of the higher order terms for the three
point correlatin function is very similar to that for the the two point
correlation and in this case too the evolution can be be described in terms of