We present numerical models of the gas dynamics in the inner parsec of the
Galactic centre. We follow the gas from its origin as stellar winds of several
observed young massive stars, until it is either captured by the central black
hole, or leaves the system. Unlike our previous models, we include an outflow
from the inner accretion flow. Two different kinds of outflows are modelled:
(i) an instantaneous-response feedback mode, in which the outflow rate is
directly proportional to the current black hole gas capture rate; and (ii) an
outburst mode, which is stronger but lasts for a limited time. The latter
situation may be particularly relevant to Sgr A*, since there is evidence that
Sgr A* was much brighter in the recent past. We find that both types of outflow
perturb the gas dynamics near the Bondi radius and the black hole capture rate
significantly. The effects persist longer than the outflow itself. We also
compare the effects of spherically symmetric and collimated outflows, and find
that the latter are far less efficient in transferring its energy to the
surrounding gas near the capture radius. Our results imply that accretion
feedback is important for non-radiative accretion flows not only within but
also outside the capture radius. Steady-state Bondi accretion rate estimates
that do not account for feedback outflows over-predict not only the accretion
rate onto the black hole but also the capture rate at the Bondi radius itself.
Finally, the steady-state assumption under which non-radiative flows have been
routinely studied in the literature may have to be abandoned if accretion
feedback is bursty in nature.