Fourth Generation (4G) Wireless System will integrate heterogeneous wireless
overlay systems i.e. interworking of WLAN/ GSM/ CDMA/ WiMAX/ LTE/ etc with
guaranteed Quality of Service (QoS) and Experience (QoE).QoS(E) vary from
network to network and is application sensitive. User needs an optimal mobility
solution while roaming in Overlaid wireless environment i.e. user could
seamlessly transfer his session/ call to a best available network bearing
guaranteed Quality of Experience. And If this Seamless transfer of session is
executed between two networks having different access standards then it is
called Vertical Handover (VHO). Contemporary VHO decision algorithms are based
on generic QoS metrics viz. SNR, bandwidth, jitter, BER and delay. In this
paper, Error Vector Magnitude (EVM) is proposed to be a generic QoS trigger for
VHO execution. EVM is defined as the deviation of inphase/ quadrature (I/Q)
values from ideal signal states and thus provides a measure of signal quality.
In 4G Interoperable environment, OFDM is the leading Modulation scheme (more
prone to multi-path fading). EVM (modulation error) properly characterises the
wireless link/ channel for accurate VHO decision. EVM depends on the inherent
transmission impairments viz. frequency offset, phase noise,
non-linear-impairment, skewness etc. for a given wireless link. Paper provides
an insight to the analytical aspect of EVM & measures EVM (%) for key
management subframes like association/re-association/disassociation/ probe
request/response frames. EVM relation is explored for different possible
NAV-Network Allocation Vectors (frame duration). Finally EVM is compared with
SNR, BER and investigation concludes EVM as a promising QoS trigger for OFDM
based emerging wireless standards.