The identification of cellular objectives is one of the central topics in the
research of microbial metabolic networks. In particular, the information about
a cellular objective is needed in flux balance analysis which is a commonly
used constrained-based metabolic network analysis method for the prediction of
cellular phenotypes. The cellular objective may vary depending on the organism
and its growth conditions. It is probable that nutritionally scarce conditions
are very common in the nature and, in order to survive in those conditions,
cells exhibit various highly efficient nutrient processing systems like
enzymes. In this study, we explore the efficiency of a metabolic network in
transformation of substrates to new biomass, and we introduce a new objective
function simulating growth efficiency.
  We examined the properties of growth efficiency using a metabolic model for
Eschericia coli. We found that the maximal growth efficiency is obtained at a
finite nutrient uptake rate. The rate is substrate-dependent and it typically
does not exceed 20 mmol/h/gDW. We further examined whether the maximal growth
efficiency could serve as a cellular objective function in metabolic network
analysis, and found that cellular growth in batch cultivation can be predicted
reasonably well under this assumption. The fit to experimental data was found
slightly better than with the commonly used objective function of maximal
growth rate.
  Based on our results, we suggest that the maximal growth efficiency can be
considered as a plausible optimization criterion in metabolic modeling for E.
coli. In the future, it would be interesting to study growth efficiency as a
cellular objective also in other cellular systems and under different
cultivation conditions.