We propose an integrated architecture for smart grids, that supports data
aggregation and access control. Data can be aggregated by home area network,
building area network and neighboring area network in such a way that the
privacy of customers is protected. We use homomorphic encryption technique to
achieve this. The consumer data that is collected is sent to the substations
where it is monitored by remote terminal units (RTU). The proposed access
control mechanism gives selective access to consumer data stored in data
repositories and used by different smart grid users. Users can be maintenance
units, utility centers, pricing estimator units or analyzing and prediction
groups. We solve this problem of access control using cryptographic technique
of attribute-based encryption. RTUs and users have attributes and cryptographic
keys distributed by several key distribution centers (KDC). RTUs send data
encrypted under a set of attributes. Users can decrypt information provided
they have valid attributes. The access control scheme is distributed in nature
and does not rely on a single KDC to distribute keys. Bobba \emph{et al.}
\cite{BKAA09} proposed an access control scheme, which relies on a centralized
KDC and is thus prone to single-point failure. The other requirement is that
the KDC has to be online, during data transfer which is not required in our
scheme. Our access control scheme is collusion resistant, meaning that users
cannot collude and gain access to data, when they are not contributorized to access.
We theoretically analyze our schemes and show that the computation overheads
are low enough to be carried out in smart grids. To the best of our knowledge,
ours is the first work on smart grids, which integrates these two important
security components (privacy preserving data aggregation and access control)
and presents an overall security architecture in smart grids.