Current developments in molecular electronics, motors and chemical sensors
could enable constructing large numbers of devices able to sense, compute and
act in micron-scale environments. Such microscopic machines, of sizes
comparable to bacteria, could simultaneously monitor entire populations of
cells individually in vivo. This paper reviews plausible capabilities for
microscopic robots and the physical constraints due to operation in fluids at
low Reynolds number, diffusion-limited sensing and thermal noise from Brownian
motion. Simple distributed controls are then presented in the context of
prototypical biomedical tasks, which require control decisions on millisecond
time scales. The resulting behaviors illustrate trade-offs among speed,
accuracy and resource use. A specific example is monitoring for patterns of
chemicals in a flowing fluid released at chemically distinctive sites.
Information collected from a large number of such devices allows estimating
properties of cell-sized chemical sources in a macroscopic volume. The
microscopic devices moving with the fluid flow in small blood vessels can
detect chemicals released by tissues in response to localized injury or
infection. We find the devices can readily discriminate a single cell-sized
chemical source from the background chemical concentration, providing
high-resolution sensing in both time and space. By contrast, such a source
would be difficult to distinguish from background when diluted throughout the
blood volume as obtained with a blood sample.