We present atomistic molecular dynamics simulations of two Polyethylene
systems where all entanglements are trapped: a perfect network, and a melt with
grafted chain ends. We examine microscopically at what level topological
constraints can be considered as a collective entanglement effect, as in tube
model theories, or as certain pairwise uncrossability interactions, as in
slip-link models. A pairwise parameter, which varies between these limiting
cases, shows that, for the systems studied, the character of the entanglement
environment is more pairwise than collective.
  We employ a novel methodology, which analyzes entanglement constraints into a
complete set of pairwise interactions, similar to slip links. Entanglement
confinement is assembled by a plethora of links, with a spectrum of confinement
strengths, from strong to weak. The strength of interactions is quantified
through a link `persistence', which is the fraction of time for which the links
are active. By weighting links according to their strength, we show that
confinement is imposed mainly by the strong ones, and that the weak, trapped,
uncrossability interactions cannot contribute to the low frequency modulus of
an elastomer, or the plateau modulus of a melt.
  A self-consistent scheme for mapping topological constraints to specific,
strong binary links, according to a given entanglement density, is proposed and
validated. Our results demonstrate that slip links can be viewed as the
strongest pairwise interactions of a collective entanglement environment. The
methodology developed provides a basis for bridging the gap between atomistic
simulations and mesoscopic slip link models.