Online social networks have recently become an effective and innovative
channel for spreading information and influence among hundreds of millions of
end users. Many prior work have carried out empirical studies and proposed
diffusion models to understand the information diffusion process in online
social networks. However, most of these studies focus on the information
diffusion in temporal dimension, that is, how the information propagates over
time. Little attempt has been given on understanding information diffusion over
both temporal and spatial dimensions. In this paper, we propose a Partial
Differential Equation (PDE), specifically, a Diffusive Logistic (DL) equation
to model the temporal and spatial characteristics of information diffusion in
online social networks. To be more specific, we develop a PDE-based theoretical
framework to measure and predict the density of influenced users at a given
distance from the original information source after a time period. The density
of influenced users over time and distance provides valuable insight on the
actual information diffusion process. We present the temporal and spatial
patterns in a real dataset collected from Digg social news site, and validate
the proposed DL equation in terms of predicting the information diffusion
process. Our experiment results show that the DL model is indeed able to
characterize and predict the process of information propagation in online
social networks. For example, for the most popular news with 24,099 votes in
Digg, the average prediction accuracy of DL model over all distances during the
first 6 hours is 92.08%. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first
attempt to use PDE-based model to study the information diffusion process in
both temporal and spatial dimensions in online social networks.