In this article, we propose a simple rule that generates scale-free networks
with very large clustering coefficient and very small average distance. These
networks are called {\bf Random Apollonian Networks}(RAN) as they can be
considered as a variation of Apollonian networks. We obtain the analytic
results of power-law exponent $\gamma =3$ and clustering coefficient
$C={46/3}-36\texttt{ln}{3/2}\approx 0.74$, which agree very well with the
simulation results. We prove that the increasing tendency of average distance
of RAN is a little slower than the logarithm of the number of nodes in RAN.
Since most real-life networks are both scale-free and small-world networks, RAN
may perform well in mimicking the reality. The RAN possess hierarchical
structure as $C(k)\sim k^{-1}$ that in accord with the observations of many
real-life networks. In addition, we prove that RAN are maximal planar networks,
which are of particular practicability for layout of printed circuits and so
on. The percolation and epidemic spreading process are also studies and the
comparison between RAN and Barab\'{a}si-Albert(BA) as well as Newman-Watts(NW)
networks are shown. We find that, when the network order $N$(the total number
of nodes) is relatively small(as $N\sim 10^4$), the performance of RAN under
intentional attack is not sensitive to $N$, while that of BA networks is much
affected by $N$. And the diseases spread slower in RAN than BA networks during
the outbreaks, indicating that the large clustering coefficient may slower the
spreading velocity especially in the outbreaks.