We apply our two-dimensional (2D), radially self-similar steady-state
accretion flow model to the analysis of hydrodynamic simulation results of
supercritical accretion flows. Self-similarity is checked and the input
parameters for the model calculation, such as advective factor and heat
capacity ratio, are obtained from time-averaged simulation data. Solutions of
the model are then calculated and compared with the simulation results. We find
that in the converged region of the simulation, excluding the part too close to
the black hole, the radial distribution of azimuthal velocity $v_\phi$, density
$\rho$ and pressure $p$ basically follows the self-similar assumptions, i.e.
they are roughly proportional to $r^{-0.5}$, $r^{-n}$, and $r^{-(n+1)}$,
respectively, where $n\sim0.85$ for the mass injection rate of
$1000L_\mathrm{E}/c^2$, and $n\sim0.74$ for $3000L_\mathrm{E}/c^2$. The
distribution of $v_r$ and $v_\theta$ agrees less with self-similarity, possibly
due to convective motions in the $r\theta$ plane. The distribution of velocity,
density and pressure in $\theta$ direction obtained by the steady model agrees
well with the simulation results {within the calculation boundary of the steady
model}. Outward mass flux in the simulations is overall directed toward polar
angle of 0.8382 rad ($\sim 48.0^\circ$) for $1000L_\mathrm{E}/c^2$, and 0.7852
rad ($\sim 43.4^\circ$) for $3000L_\mathrm{E}/c^2$, and $\sim$94\% of the mass
inflow are driven away as outflow, while outward momentum and energy fluxes are
focused around the polar axis. Part of these fluxes lie in the region that are
not calculated by the steady model, and special attention should be paid when
the model is applied.