Nonlinear time series analysis aims at understanding the dynamics of
stochastic or chaotic processes. In recent years, quite a few methods have been
proposed to transform a single time series to a complex network so that the
dynamics of the process can be understood by investigating the topological
properties of the network. We study the topological properties of horizontal
visibility graphs constructed from fractional Brownian motions with different
Hurst index $H\in(0,1)$. Special attention has been paid to the impact of Hurst
index on the topological properties. It is found that the clustering
coefficient $C$ decreases when $H$ increases. We also found that the mean
length $L$ of the shortest paths increases exponentially with $H$ for fixed
length $N$ of the original time series. In addition, $L$ increases linearly
with respect to $N$ when $H$ is close to 1 and in a logarithmic form when $H$
is close to 0. Although the occurrence of different motifs changes with $H$,
the motif rank pattern remains unchanged for different $H$. Adopting the
node-covering box-counting method, the horizontal visibility graphs are found
to be fractals and the fractal dimension $d_B$ decreases with $H$. Furthermore,
the Pearson coefficients of the networks are positive and the degree-degree
correlations increase with the degree, which indicate that the horizontal
visibility graphs are assortative. With the increase of $H$, the Pearson
coefficient decreases first and then increases, in which the turning point is
around $H=0.6$. The presence of both fractality and assortativity in the
horizontal visibility graphs converted from fractional Brownian motions is
different from many cases where fractal networks are usually disassortative.