In recent years, there are some major changes in the way content is being
distributed over the network. The content distribution techniques have recently
started to embrace peer-to-peer (P2P) systems as an alternative to the
traditional client-server architecture. P2P systemsthat are based on the
BitTorrent protocol uses end-users' resources to provide a cost effective
distribution of bandwidth intensive content to thousands of users. The
BitTorrent protocol system offers a scalable mechanism for distributing a large
volume of data to a set of peers over the Internet. With the growing demand for
file sharing and content distribution, BitTorrent has become one of the most
popular Internet applications and contributes to a signification fraction of
the Internet traffic. With the wide usage of the BitTorrent protocol system, it
has basically solved one of the major problems where data can be quickly
transferred to a group of interested parties. The strength of the BitTorrent
protocol lies in efficient bandwidth utilization for the downloading and
uploading processes. However, the usage of BitTorrent protocol also causes
latency for other applications in terms of network bandwidth which in turn has
caused concerns for the Internet Service Providers, who strives for quality of
service for all their customers. In this paper, we study the network traffic
patterns of theBitTorrent network traffic and investigate its behavior by
usingthe time series ARMA model. Our experimental results show that BitTorrent
network traffic can be modeled and forecasted by using ARMA models. We compared
and evaluated the forecasted network traffic with the real traffic patterns.
This modeling can be utilized by the Internet Service Providers to manage their
network bandwidth and also detect any abnormality in their network.