Materials in biology span all the scales from Angstroms to meters and
typically consist of complex hierarchical assemblies of simple building blocks.
Here we describe an application of category theory to describe structural and
resulting functional properties of biological protein materials by developing
so-called ologs. An olog is like a "concept web" or "semantic network" except
that it follows a rigorous mathematical formulation based on category theory.
This key difference ensures that an olog is unambiguous, highly adaptable to
evolution and change, and suitable for sharing concepts with other olog. We
consider simple cases of alpha-helical and amyloid-like protein filaments
subjected to axial extension and develop an olog representation of their
structural and resulting mechanical properties. We also construct a
representation of a social network in which people send text-messages to their
nearest neighbors and act as a team to perform a task. We show that the olog
for the protein and the olog for the social network feature identical
category-theoretic representations, and we proceed to precisely explicate the
analogy or isomorphism between them. The examples presented here demonstrate
that the intrinsic nature of a complex system, which in particular includes a
precise relationship between structure and function at different hierarchical
levels, can be effectively represented by an olog. This, in turn, allows for
comparative studies between disparate materials or fields of application, and
results in novel approaches to derive functionality in the design of de novo
hierarchical systems. We discuss opportunities and challenges associated with
the description of complex biological materials by using ologs as a powerful
tool for analysis and design in the context of materiomics, and we present the
potential impact of this approach for engineering, life sciences, and medicine.