A mobile ad hoc network (MANETs) is a self-organizing system of mobile nodes
that communicate with each other via wireless links with no fixed
infrastructure or centralized administration such as base station or access
points. Nodes in a MANETs operate both as host as well as routers to forward
packets for each other in a multihop fashion. For many applications in wireless
networks, multicasting is an important and frequent communication service. By
multicasting, since a single message can be delivered to multiple receivers
simultaneously. It greatly reduces the transmission cost when sending the same
packet to multiple recipients.
  The security issue of MANETs in group communications is even more challenging
because of involvement of multiple senders and multiple receivers. At that time
of multicasting, mobile ad hoc network are unprotected by the attacks of
malicious nodes because of vulnerabilities of routing protocols. Some of the
attacks are Rushing attack, Blackhole attack, Sybil attack, Neighbor attack and
Jellyfish attack.
  This paper is based on Rushing attack. In Rushing attack, the attacker
exploits the duplicate suppression mechanism by quickly forwarding route
discovery packets in order to gain access to the forwarding group and this will
affect the Average Attack Success Rate.
  In this paper, the goal is to measure the impact of Rushing attack and their
node positions which affect the performance metrics of Average Attack Success
Rate with respect to three scenarios: near sender, near receiver and anywhere
within the network. The performance of the Attack Success Rate with respect to
above three scenarios is also compared.