Online social networks such as Twitter and Facebook have gained tremendous
popularity for information exchange. The availability of unprecedented amounts
of digital data has accelerated research on information diffusion in online
social networks. However, the mechanism of information spreading in online
social networks remains elusive due to the complexity of social interactions
and rapid change of online social networks. Much of prior work on information
diffusion over online social networks has based on empirical and statistical
approaches. The majority of dynamical models arising from information diffusion
over online social networks involve ordinary differential equations which only
depend on time. In a number of recent papers, the contributors propose to use
partial differential equations(PDEs) to characterize temporal and spatial
patterns of information diffusion over online social networks. Built on
intuitive cyber-distances such as friendship hops in online social networks,
the reaction-diffusion equations take into account influences from various
external out-of-network sources, such as the mainstream media, and provide a
new analytic framework to study the interplay of structural and topical
influences on information diffusion over online social networks. In this
survey, we discuss a number of PDE-based models that are validated with real
datasets collected from popular online social networks such as Digg and
Twitter. Some new developments including the conservation law of information
flow in online social networks and information propagation speeds based on
traveling wave solutions are presented to solidify the foundation of the PDE
models and highlight the new opportunities and challenges for mathematicians as
well as computer scientists and researchers in online social networks.