Many soft materials, including foams, dense emulsions, micro gel bead
suspensions, star polymers, dense packing of surfactant onion micelles, and
textured morphologies of liquid crystals, share the basic "glassy" features of
structural disorder and metastability. These in turn give rise to several
notable features in the low frequency shear rheology (deformation and flow
properties) of these materials: in particular, the existence of a yield stress
below which the material behaves like a solid, and above which it flows like a
liquid. In the last decade, intense experimental activity has also revealed
that these materials often display a phenomenon known as shear banding, in
which the flow profile across the shear cell exhibits macroscopic bands of
different viscosity. Two distinct classes of yield stress fluid have been
identified: those in which the shear bands apparently persist permanently (for
as long as the flow remains applied), and those in which banding arises only
transiently during a process in which a steady flowing state is established out
of an initial rest state (for example, in a shear startup or step stress
experiment). After surveying the motivating experimental data, we describe
recent progress in addressing it theoretically, using the soft glassy rheology
model and a simple fluidity model. We also briefly place these theoretical
approaches in the context of others in the literature, including elasto-plastic
models, shear transformation zone theories, and molecular dynamics simulations.
We discuss finally some challenges that remain open to theory and experiment
alike.