(abridged) This paper aims at deciphering the dynamics of the envelope of a
rotating star when some angular momentum loss due to mass loss is present. We
especially wish to know when the spin-down flow forced by the mass loss
supersedes the baroclinic flows that pervade the radiative envelope of rotating
stars. We consider a Boussinesq fluid enclosed in a rigid sphere whose flows
are forced both by the baroclinic torque, the spin-down of an outer layer, and
an outward mass flux. The spin-down forcing is idealized in two ways: either by
a rigid layer that imposes its spinning down velocity at some interface or by a
turbulent layer that imposes a stress at this same interface to the interior of
the star. In the case where the layer is rigid and imposes its velocity, we
find that, as the mass-loss rate increases, the flow inside the star shows two
transitions: the meridional circulation associated with baroclinic flows is
first replaced by its spin-down counterpart, while at much stronger mass-loss
rates the baroclinic differential rotation is superseded by the spin-down
differential rotation. In fact, we find three wind regimes: weak (or no wind),
moderate, and strong. In the first case, the flow in the radiative envelope is
of baroclinic origin. In the moderate case, the circulation results from the
spin-down while the differential rotation may either be of baroclinic or of
spin-down origin, depending on the coupling between mass and angular momentum
losses. For fast rotating stars, our model says that the moderate wind regime
starts when mass loss is higher than ~1e-11 Msun/yr. In the strong wind case,
the flow in the radiative envelope is mainly driven by angular momentum
advection. This latter transition depends on the mass and the rotation rate of
the star, being around 1e-8 Msun/yr for a 3 Msun ZAMS star rotating at 200 km/s
according to our model.