On the basis of geological evidence, it is often stated that the early
martian climate was warm enough for liquid water to flow on the surface thanks
to the greenhouse effect of a thick atmosphere. We present 3D global climate
simulations of the early martian climate performed assuming a faint young sun
and a CO2 atmosphere with pressure between 0.1 and 7 bars. The model includes a
detailed radiative transfer model using revised CO2 gas collision induced
absorption properties, and a parameterisation of the CO2 ice cloud
microphysical and radiative properties. A wide range of possible climates is
explored by using various values of obliquities, orbital parameters, cloud
microphysic parameters, atmospheric dust loading, and surface properties.
Unlike on present day Mars, for pressures higher than a fraction of a bar,
surface temperatures vary with altitude because of the adiabatic cooling and
warming of the atmosphere when it moves vertically. In most simulations, CO2
ice clouds cover a major part of the planet but greenhouse effect does not
exceed +15 K. We find that a CO2 atmosphere could not have raised the annual
mean temperature above 0{\deg}C anywhere on the planet. The collapse of the
atmosphere into permanent CO2 ice caps is predicted for pressures higher than 3
bar, or conversely at pressure lower than one bar if the obliquity is low
enough. Summertime diurnal mean surface temperatures above 0{\deg}C (a
condition which could have allowed rivers to form) are predicted for obliquity
larger than 40{\deg} at high latitudes but not in locations where most valley
networks are observed. In the absence of other warming mechanisms, our climate
model results are thus consistent with a cold early Mars scenario in which non
climatic mechanisms must occur to explain the evidence for liquid water. In a
companion paper by Wordsworth et al., we simulate the hydrological cycle on
such a planet.