Heterogeneous networks (HetNets) have been considered as a promising
architecture for upcoming 5G networks due to their high energy and spectrum
efficiency. However, providing backhaul connectivity for all macro and pico
base stations (BSs) in HetNets constitutes a significant share of
infrastructure cost. Recently, the idea of flexible backhaul has drown a lot of
attention both from industry and academia. Under this architecture, not all the
pico BSs are connected to the backhaul, resulting in a significant reduction in
the infrastructure costs. In this regard, pico BSs without backhaul
connectivity need to communicate with their nearby BSs in order to have
indirect accessibility to the backhaul. This makes the radio resource
management (RRM) in such networks more complex and challenging. In this paper,
we address the problem of cross-layer RRM in HetNets with flexible backhaul. We
formulate the RRM problem as a two timescale non-convex stochastic optimization
problem which jointly optimizes flow control, routing control, interference
mitigation and link scheduling in order to maximize a generic network utility.
By exploiting the hidden convexity of this non-convex problem, we propose an
iterative algorithm which is converges to the global optimal solution. The
proposed solution has low complexity and requires low signalling and message
passing among different nodes, which makes it scalable. Moreover, due to the
proposed two-timescale design, it is robust to the backhaul signalling latency
as well. Simulation results demonstrate the significant performance gain of the
proposed solution over various baselines.