Driven by the advent of sophisticated and ubiquitous applications, and the
ever-growing need for information, wireless networks are without a doubt
steadily evolving into profoundly more complex and dynamic systems. The user
demands are progressively rampant, while application requirements continue to
expand in both range and diversity. Future wireless networks, therefore, must
be equipped with the ability to handle numerous, albeit challenging
requirements. Network reconfiguration, considered as a prominent network
paradigm, is envisioned to play a key role in leveraging future network
performance and considerably advancing current user experiences. This paper
presents a comprehensive overview of reconfigurable wireless networks and an
in-depth analysis of reconfiguration at all layers of the protocol stack. Such
networks characteristically possess the ability to reconfigure and adapt their
hardware and software components and architectures, thus enabling flexible
delivery of broad services, as well as sustaining robust operation under highly
dynamic conditions. The paper offers a unifying framework for research in
reconfigurable wireless networks. This should provide the reader with a
holistic view of concepts, methods, and strategies in reconfigurable wireless
networks. Focus is given to reconfigurable systems in relatively new and
emerging research areas such as cognitive radio networks, cross-layer
reconfiguration and software-defined networks. In addition, modern networks
have to be intelligent and capable of self-organization. Thus, this paper
discusses the concept of network intelligence as a means to enable
reconfiguration in highly complex and dynamic networks. Finally, the paper is
supported with several examples and case studies showing the tremendous impact
of reconfiguration on wireless networks.