Supersonic vortex plane and axisymmetric flows of non-viscous
non-heatconductive gas with arbitrary thermodynamic properties in the vicinity
of a steady shock wave are studied. The differential equations describing the
gas flow exterior to the discontinuity surface and the dynamic compatibility
conditions at this discontinuity are used. The gas flow nonuniformity in the
shock vicinity is described by the space derivatives of the gasdynamic
parameters at a point on the shock surface. The parameters are the gas
pressure, density, velocity vector. The derivatives with respect to the
directions of the streamline and normal to it, and of the shock surface and
normal to it are considered. Space derivatives of all gasdynamic parameters are
expressed through the flow nonisobaric factor along the streamline, the
streamline curvature, and the flow vorticity and non-isoenthalpy factors. An
algorithm for these factors of the gas flow downstream a shock wave
determination is developed. Examples of these factors calculation for imperfect
oxygen and thermodynamically perfect gas are presented. The influence
coefficients of the upstream flow factors on the downstream flow factors are
calculated. As an illustration for flows with upstream Mach number 5 it is
shown that the flow vorticity factor is the most influenced by the
thermodynamical gas properties. The gas flow in the vicinity of the shock is
described by the isolines of gasdynamic parameters. Uniform plane and
axisymmetric flows on different distances from the axis of symmetry are
examined; the isobars, isopycnics, isotachs and isoclines are used to
characterize the downstream flow behind a curved shock in an imperfect gas.