We present an analysis of Spitzer-IRS spectroscopic maps of the L1157
protostellar outflow in the H2 pure-rotational lines from S(0) to S(7). The aim
of this work is to derive the physical conditions pertaining to the warm
molecular gas and study their variations within the flow. The mid-IR H2
emission follows the morphology of the precessing flow, with peaks correlated
with individual CO clumps and H2 2.12{\mu}m ro-vibrational emission. More
diffuse emission delineating the CO cavities is detected only in the low-laying
transitions, with J(lower) less or equal to 2. The H2 line images have been
used to construct 2D maps of N(H2), H2 ortho-to-para ratio and temperature
spectral index beta, in the assumption of a gas temperature stratification
where the H2 column density varies as T^(beta). Variations of these parameters
are observed along the flow. In particular, the ortho-to-para ratio ranges from
0.6 to 2.8, highlighting the presence of regions subject to recent shocks where
the ortho-to-para ratio has not had time yet to reach the equilibrium value.
Near-IR spectroscopic data on ro-vibrational H2 emission have been combined
with the mid-IR data and used to derive additional shock parameters in the
brightest blue- and red-shifted emission knots. A high abundance of atomic
hydrogen (H/H2 about 0.1-0.3) is implied by the observed H2 column densities,
assuming n(H2) values as derived by independent SiO observations. The presence
of a high fraction of atomic hydrogen, indicates that a partially-dissociative
shock component should be considered for the H2 excitation in these localized
regions. However, planar shock models, either of C- or J-type, are not able to
consistently reproduce all the physical parameters derived from our analysis of
the H2 emission. Globally, H2 emission contributes to about 50% of the total
shock radiated energy in the L1157 outflow.