Soft, disordered, micro-structured materials are ubiquitous in nature and
industry, and are different from ordinary fluids or solids, with unusual,
interesting flow properties. The transition from fluid to solid - at the
so-called jamming density - features a multitude of complex mechanisms, but
there is no unified theoretical framework that explains them all. In this
study, a simple yet quantitative and predictive model is presented, which
allows for a changing jamming density, encompassing the memory of the
deformation history and explaining a multitude of flow phenomena at and around
jamming. The jamming density, introduced as a new state-variable, changes due
to the deformation history and relates the system's macroscopic response to its
micro-structure. The packing efficiency can increase logarithmically slow under
gentle "tapping" or repeated (isotropic) compression, leading to an increase of
the jamming density. In contrast, shear deformations cause anisotropy, changing
the packing efficiency exponentially fast with either dilatancy or compactancy.
The memory of the system near jamming can be explained by a micro-statistical
model that involves a multiscale, fractal energy landscape and links the
microscopic particle picture to the macroscopic continuum description,
providing a unified explanation for the qualitatively different flow-behavior
for different deformation modes. To complement our work, a recipe to extract
the history-dependent jamming density from experimentally accessible data is
proposed, and alternative state-variables are compared. The proposed simple,
usable macroscopic model, will help predicting and avoiding geophysical
hazards, bring forward industrial process design and optimization, and
understand and solve scientific challenges in fundamental research.