We present a set of detailed molecular line maps of the region associated
with the giant Herbig-Haro flow HH 315, from the young star PV Cephei, aimed at
studying the outflow-cloud interaction. Our study clearly shows that the HH 315
flow is effecting the kinematics of its surrounding medium, and has been able
to redistribute considerable amounts of the surrounding medium-density gas in
its star-forming core as well at parsec-scale distances from the source. The
giant molecular outflow HH 315 is a highly asymmetric bipolar flow with a
projected linear extent of about 2 pc. Our results indicate that the two
outflow lobes are each interacting with the ambient medium in different ways.
The southern (redshifted) lobe interacts with a dense ambient medium, very
close to the young stellar outflow source, and its kinetic energy is comparable
to both the turbulent and gravitational binding energy of its host cloud. In
addition, we find evidence that the southern lobe is responsible for the
creation of a cavity in the 13CO emission. In contrast, the northern (mainly
blueshifted) outflow lobe extends farther from PV Ceph and interacts with
ambient gas much less dense than the southern lobe. There is very little 13CO
emission north of the outflow source, and the only prominent 13CO emission is a
shell-like structure coincident with the outer edge of the northern lobe, about
1.2 pc northwest of PV Ceph. It appears that the northern lobe of the HH 315
outflow has been able to ``push'' aside a substantial fraction of the gas in
the area, piling it in a dense shell-like structure at its edges. In addition,
we find that the northern outflow lobe is responsible for a velocity gradient
in the ambient gas.