We show that an M X N user MIMO X network with A antennas at each node has
AMN/(M+N-1) degrees of freedom (DoF), thus resolving in this case a discrepancy
between the spatial scale invariance conjecture (scaling the number of antennas
at each node by a constant factor will scale the total DoF by the same factor)
and a decomposability property of overconstrained wireless networks. While the
best previously-known general DoF outer bound is consistent with the spatial
invariance conjecture, the best previously-known general DoF inner bound,
inspired by the K user MIMO interference channel, was based on the
decomposition of every transmitter and receiver into multiple single antenna
nodes, transforming the network into an AM X AN user SISO X network. While such
a decomposition is DoF optimal for the K user MIMO interference channel, a gap
remained between the best inner and outer bound for the MIMO X channel. Here we
close this gap with the new insight that the MIMO X network is only one-sided
decomposable, i.e., either all the transmitters or all the receivers (but not
both) can be decomposed by splitting multiple antenna nodes into multiple
single antenna nodes without loss of DoF. The result is extended to SIMO and
MISO X networks as well and in each case the DoF results satisfy the spatial
scale invariance property. In addition, the feasibility of linear interference
alignment is investigated based only on spatial beamforming without symbol
extensions. Similar to MIMO interference networks, we show that when the
problem is improper, it is infeasible.