We consider information dissemination in a large $n$-user wireless network in
which $k$ users wish to share a unique message with all other users. Each of
the $n$ users only has knowledge of its own contents and state information;
this corresponds to a one-sided push-only scenario. The goal is to disseminate
all messages efficiently, hopefully achieving an order-optimal spreading rate
over unicast wireless random networks. First, we show that a random-push
strategy -- where a user sends its own or a received packet at random -- is
order-wise suboptimal in a random geometric graph: specifically,
$\Omega(\sqrt{n})$ times slower than optimal spreading. It is known that this
gap can be closed if each user has "full" mobility, since this effectively
creates a complete graph. We instead consider velocity-constrained mobility
where at each time slot the user moves locally using a discrete random walk
with velocity $v(n)$ that is much lower than full mobility. We propose a simple
two-stage dissemination strategy that alternates between individual message
flooding ("self promotion") and random gossiping. We prove that this scheme
achieves a close to optimal spreading rate (within only a logarithmic gap) as
long as the velocity is at least $v(n)=\omega(\sqrt{\log n/k})$. The key
insight is that the mixing property introduced by the partial mobility helps
users to spread in space within a relatively short period compared to the
optimal spreading time, which macroscopically mimics message dissemination over
a complete graph.