Computations related to learning processes within an organizational social
network area require some network model preparation and specific algorithms in
order to implement human behaviors in simulated environments. The proposals in
this research model of collaborative learning in an organizational social
network are based on knowledge resource distribution through the establishment
of a knowledge flow. The nodes, which represent knowledge workers, contain
information about workers social and cognitive abilities. Moreover, the workers
are described by their set of competences, their skill level, and the
collaborative learning behavior that can be detected through knowledge flow
analysis. The proposed approach assumes that an increase in workers competence
is a result of collaborative learning. In other words, collaborative learning
can be analyzed as a process of knowledge flow that is being broadcast in a
network. In order to create a more effective organizational social network for
co-learning, the contributors found the best strategies for knowledge facilitator,
knowledge collector, and expert roles allocation. Special attention is paid to
the process of knowledge flow in the community of practice. Acceleration within
the community of practice happens when knowledge flows more effectively between
community members. The presented procedure makes it possible to add new ties to
the community of practice in order to influence community members competences.
Both the proposed allocation and acceleration approaches were confirmed through
simulations.