Most of the theoretical results on the kinematic amplification of small-scale
magnetic fluctuations by turbulence have been confined to the model of
white-noise-like advecting turbulent velocity field. In this work, the
statistics of the passive magnetic field in the diffusion-free regime are
considered for the case when the advecting flow is finite-time correlated. A
new method is developed that allows one to systematically construct the
correlation-time expansion for statistical characteristics of the field. The
expansion is valid provided the velocity correlation time is smaller than the
characteristic growth time of the magnetic fluctuations. This expansion is
carried out up to first order in the general case of a d-dimensional
arbitrarily compressible advecting flow. The growth rates for all moments of
the magnetic field are derived. The effect of the first-order corrections is to
reduce these growth rates. It is shown that introducing a finite correlation
time leads to the loss of the small-scale statistical universality, which was
present in the limit of the delta-correlated velocity field. Namely, the shape
of the velocity time-correlation profile and the large-scale spatial structure
of the flow become important. The latter is a new effect, that implies, in
particular, that the approximation of a locally-linear shear flow does not
fully capture the effect of nonvanishing correlation time. Physical
applications of this theory include the small-scale kinematic dynamo in the
interstellar medium and protogalactic plasmas.