Currently, Eulerian flow solvers are very efficient in accurately resolving
flow structures near solid boundaries. On the other hand, they tend to be
diffusive and to dampen high-intensity vortical structures after a short
distance away from solid boundaries. The use of high order methods and fine
grids, although alleviating this problem, gives rise to large systems of
equations that are expensive to solve.
  Lagrangian solvers, as the regularized vortex particle method, have shown to
eliminate (in practice) the diffusion in the wake. As a drawback, the modelling
of solid boundaries is less accurate, more complex and costly than with
Eulerian solvers (due to the isotropy of its computational elements).
  Given the drawbacks and advantages of both Eulerian and Lagrangian solvers
the combination of both methods, giving rise to a hybrid solver, is
advantageous. The main idea behind the hybrid solver presented is the
following. In a region close to solid boundaries the flow is solved with an
Eulerian solver, where the full Navier-Stokes equations are solved (possibly
with an arbitrary turbulence model or DNS, the limitations being the
computational power and the physical properties of the flow), outside of that
region the flow is solved with a vortex particle method.
  In this work we present this hybrid scheme and verify it numerically on known
2D benchmark cases: dipole flow, flow around a cylinder and flow around a
stalled airfoil. The success in modelling these flow conditions presents this
hybrid approach as a promising alternative, bridging the gap between highly
resolved and computationally intensive Eulerian CFD simulations and fast but
less resolved Lagrangian simulations.