In this report, firstly, we presents state of the art survey on Data
Management and Data Dissemination techniques with Mobile Sink. Moreover we
classify these techniques into two ample sub-categories. Under this
classification, we identify, review, compare, and highlight these techniques
and their pros and cons. We do a SWOT (Strength, Weaknesses, Opportunities,
Threats) analysis of each scheme. We also discuss where each scheme is
appropriate.
  Secondly, we presents a new distributed data management scheme which is based
upon Random Walk Based Membership Service to facilitate Data Dissemination in
Mobile Sink based Wireless Sensor Networks. Our proposed scheme efficiently
deals with the aforementioned problems and we also compare the characteristics
of our proposed scheme with the state-of-the-art data-dissemination schemes. We
propose using Random Walks (RWs) with uniformly distributed views to
disseminate data through the WSN with a controlled overhead. This is performed
by the use of a Random Walk Based Membership Service - the RaWMS. Our proposal
solves then the problems generated when (a) all nodes are storage motes, being
no aggregation performed (b) one center node plays the role of storage mote and
aggregates data from all the other nodes (c) replication is performed on all
nodes in the network.
  To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to propose an efficient data
dissemination approach (in terms of overhead, adaptiveness and
representativeness) to allow a mobile sink to gather a representative view of
the monitored region covered by n sensor nodes by only visiting any m nodes,
where hopefully m << n.