A measurement of 74Ge(p,gamma)75As at low proton energies, inside the
astrophysically relevant energy region, is important in several respects. The
reaction is directly important as it is a bottleneck in the reaction flow which
produces the lightest p nucleus 74Se. It is also an important addition to the
data set required to test reaction-rate predictions and to allow an improvement
in the global p+nucleus optical potential required in such calculations. An
in-beam experiment was performed, making it possible to measure in the energy
range between 2.1 and 3.7 MeV, which is for the most part inside the
astrophysically relevant energy window. Angular distributions of the gamma-ray
transitions were measured with high-purity germanium detectors at eight angles
relative to the beam axis. In addition to the total cross sections, partial
cross sections for the direct population of twelve levels were determined. The
resulting cross sections were compared to Hauser-Feshbach calculations using
the code SMARAGD. Only a constant renormalization factor of the calculated
proton widths allowed a good reproduction of both total and partial cross
sections. The accuracy of the calculation made it possible to check the spin
assignment of some states in 75As. In the case of the 1075 keV state, a double
state with spins and parities of 3/2- and 5/2- is needed to explain the
experimental partial cross sections. A change in parity from 5/2+ to 5/2- is
required for the state at 401 keV. Furthermore, in the case of 74Ge, studying
the combination of total and partial cross sections made it possible to test
the gamma width, which is essential in the calculation of the astrophysical
74$As(n,gamma)75As rate.