We consider the problem of identifying a team of skilled individuals for
collaboration, in the presence of a social network. Each node in the social
network may be an expert in one or more skills. Edge weights specify affinity
or collaborative compatibility between respective nodes. Given a project that
requires a set of specified number of skilled individuals in each area of
expertise, the goal is to identify a team that maximizes the collaborative
compatibility. For example, the requirement may be to form a team that has at
least three databases experts and at least two theory experts. We explore team
formation where the collaborative compatibility objective is measured as the
density of the induced subgraph on selected nodes. The problem of maximizing
density is NP-hard even when the team requires individuals of only one skill.
We present a 3-approximation algorithm that improves upon a naive extension of
the previously known algorithm for densest at least $k$ subgraph problem. We
further show how the same approximation can be extended to a special case of
multiple skills. Our problem generalizes the formulation studied by Lappas et
al. [KDD '09] who measure team compatibility in terms of diameter or spanning
tree costs. Experiments are performed on a crawl of the DBLP graph where
individuals can be skilled in at most four areas - theory, databases, data
mining, and artificial intelligence. In addition to our main algorithm, we also
present heuristic extensions to trade off between the size of the solution and
its induced density. These density-based algorithms outperform the
diameter-based objective on several metrics for assessing the collaborative
compatibility of teams. The solutions suggested are also intuitively meaningful
and scale well with the increase in the number of skilled individuals required.