In the last few years the so--called "linear deterministic" model of relay
channels has gained popularity as a means of studying the flow of information
over wireless communication networks, and this approach generalizes the model
of wireline networks which is standard in network optimization. There is recent
work extending the celebrated max--flow/min--cut theorem to the capacity of a
unicast session over a linear deterministic relay network which is modeled by a
layered directed graph. This result was first proved by a random coding scheme
over large blocks of transmitted signals. We demonstrate the same result with a
simple, deterministic, polynomial--time algorithm which takes as input a single
transmitted signal instead of a long block of signals. Our capacity-achieving
transmission scheme for a two--layer network requires the extension of a
one--dimensional Rado--Hall transversal theorem on the independent subsets of
rows of a row--partitioned matrix into a two--dimensional variation for block
matrices. To generalize our approach to larger networks we use the
submodularity of the capacity of a cut for our model and show that our complete
transmission scheme can be obtained by solving a linear program over the
intersection of two polymatroids. We prove that our transmission scheme can
achieve the max-flow/min-cut capacity by applying a theorem of Edmonds about
such linear programs. We use standard submodular function minimization
techniques as part of our polynomial--time algorithm to construct our
capacity-achieving transmission scheme.