To enable Interactive multiview video systems with a minimum view-switching
delay, multiple camera views are sent to the users, which are used as reference
images to synthesize additional virtual views via depth-image-based rendering.
In practice, bandwidth constraints may however restrict the number of reference
views sent to clients per time unit, which may in turn limit the quality of the
synthesized viewpoints. We argue that the reference view selection should
ideally be performed close to the users, and we study the problem of in-network
reference view synthesis such that the navigation quality is maximized at the
clients. We consider a distributed cloud network architecture where data stored
in a main cloud is delivered to end users with the help of cloudlets, i.e.,
resource-rich proxies close to the users. In order to satisfy last-hop
bandwidth constraints from the cloudlet to the users, a cloudlet re-samples
viewpoints of the 3D scene into a discrete set of views (combination of
received camera views and virtual views synthesized) to be used as reference
for the synthesis of additional virtual views at the client. This in-network
synthesis leads to better viewpoint sampling given a bandwidth constraint
compared to simple selection of camera views, but it may however carry a
distortion penalty in the cloudlet-synthesized reference views. We therefore
cast a new reference view selection problem where the best subset of views is
defined as the one minimizing the distortion over a view navigation window
defined by the user under some transmission bandwidth constraints. We show that
the view selection problem is NP-hard, and propose an effective polynomial time
algorithm using dynamic programming to solve the optimization problem.
Simulation results finally confirm the performance gain offered by virtual view
synthesis in the network.