In this paper, we discuss different models for human logic systems and
describe a game with nature. Godel`s incompleteness theorem is taken into
account to construct a model of logical networks based on axioms obtained by
symmetry breaking. We start by saying that although an agent is rational, the
axioms defining different agent's logic systems need not be the same although
they might have a large degree of overlap. This can be seen as each agent being
coupled to a higher dimensional world by means of his perception where the
couplings produce slightly different projections of the higher dimensional
world to each agent. The different projections would produce slightly different
concepts about the "world" to each agent and hence create a slightly differing
set of axioms that each agent would use to act logically. Then we place the
agents in an interacting logical network, where these axioms can be treated as
spins that can be flipped as agents interact with each other and with the
environment in which they are placed. Agents, who would share a common material
world that they wish to use or change by using different or conflicting sets of
axioms will try to flip the other agent's axioms (This can be seen by observing
that as one agent acts to interact with his world as followed by his axiom,
another agent's world changes as well, and the change might be contradictory to
the second agent's "axioms" or "optimal world". We define an equation that
allows an axiom to be flipped into an "anti axiom (the opposite or conflicting
axiom)" as agents interact. All agents share an "existence" axiom by means of
which they strive to perpetuate themselves or the network.