All high temperature accretion solutions including ADAF are physically thick,
so outgoing radiation interacts with the incoming flow, sharing as much or more
resemblance with classical spherical accretion flows as with disk flows. We
examine this interaction for the popular ADAF case. We find that without
allowance for Compton preheating, a very restricted domain of ADAF solution is
permitted and with Compton preheating included a new high temperature PADAF
branch appears in the solution space. In the absence of preheating, high
temperature flows do not exist when the mass accretion rate mdot == Mdot c^2 /
L_E >~ 10^-1.5. Below this mass accretion rate, a roughly conical region around
the hole cannot sustain high temperature ions and electrons for all flows
having mdot >~ 10^-4, which may lead to a funnel possibly filled with a tenuous
hot outgoing wind. If the flow starts at large radii with the usual equilibrium
temperature ~10^4 K, the critical mass accretion rate is much lower, mdot
\~10^-3.7 above which level no self-consistent ADAF (without preheating) can
exist. However, above this critical mass accretion rate, the flow can be
self-consistently maintained at high temperature if Compton preheating is
considered. These solutions constitute a new branch of solutions as in
spherical accretion flows. High temperature PADAF flows can exist above the
critical mass accretion rate in addition to the usual cold thin disk solutions.
We also find solutions where the flow near the equatorial plane accretes
normally while the flow near the pole is overheated by Compton preheating,
possibly becoming, a polar wind, solutions which we designate WADAF.