In this paper we study the problem of how resilient networks are to node
faults. Specifically, we investigate the question of how many faults a network
can sustain so that it still contains a large (i.e. linear-sized) connected
component that still has approximately the same expansion as the original
fault-free network. For this we apply a pruning technique which culls away
parts of the faulty network which have poor expansion. This technique can be
applied to both adversarial faults and to random faults. For adversarial faults
we prove that for every network with expansion alpha, a large connected
component with basically the same expansion as the original network exists for
up to a constant times alpha n faults. This result is tight in the sense that
every graph G of size n and uniform expansion alpha(.), i.e. G has an expansion
of alpha(n) and every subgraph G' of size m of G has an expansion of
O(alpha(m)), can be broken into sublinear components with omega(alpha(n) n)
faults.
  For random faults we observe that the situation is significantly different,
because in this case the expansion of a graph only gives a very weak bound on
its resilience to random faults. More specifically, there are networks of
uniform expansion O(sqrt{n}) that are resilient against a constant fault
probability but there are also networks of uniform expansion Omega(1/log n)
that are not resilient against a O(1/log n) fault probability. Thus, a
different parameter is needed. For this we introduce the span of a graph which
allows us to determine the maximum fault probability in a much better way than
the expansion can. We use the span to show the first known results for the
effect of random faults on the expansion of d-dimensional meshes.