We consider a clustered network with small-world sub-networks of inhibitory
fast spiking interneurons, and investigate the effect of inter-modular
connection on emergence of fast sparsely synchronized rhythms by varying both
the inter-modular coupling strength $J_{inter}$ and the average number of
inter-modular links per interneuron $M_{syn}^{(inter)}$. In contrast to the
case of non-clustered networks, two kinds of sparsely synchronized states such
as modular and global synchronization are found. For the case of modular sparse
synchronization, the population behavior reveals the modular structure, because
the intra-modular dynamics of sub-networks make some mismatching. On the other
hand, in the case of global sparse synchronization, the population behavior is
globally identical, independently of the cluster structure, because the
intra-modular dynamics of sub-networks make perfect matching. We introduce a
realistic cross-correlation modularity measure, representing the
matching-degree between the instantaneous sub-population spike rates of the
sub-networks, and examine whether the sparse synchronization is global or
modular. Furthermore, we characterize the modular and global sparse
synchronization by employing the realistic sub- and whole-population order
parameters and statistical-mechanical measures. The roles of $J_{inter}$ and
$M_{syn}^{(inter)}$ are thus found as follows. For large $J_{inter}$, due to
strong inhibition it plays a destructive role to "spoil" the pacing between
spikes, while for small $J_{inter}$ it plays a constructive role to "favor" the
pacing between spikes. In contrast, $M_{syn}^{(inter)}$ seems to play a role
just to favor the pacing between spikes. With increasing $M_{syn}^{(inter)}$,
the pacing degree between spikes increases monotonically thanks to the increase
in the degree of effectiveness of global communication between spikes.