During the past few decades wireless technology has seen a tremendous growth.
The recent introduction of high-end mobile devices has further increased
subscriber's demand for high bandwidth. Current cellular systems require manual
configuration and management of networks, which is now costly, time consuming
and error prone due to exponentially increasing rate of mobile users and nodes.
This leads to introduction of self organizing capabilities for network
management with minimum human involvement. It is expected to permit higher end
user Quality of Service (QoS) along with less operational and maintenance cost
for telecom service providers. Self organized cellular networks incorporate a
collection of functions for automatic configuration, optimization and
maintenance of cellular networks. As mobile end users continue to use network
resources while moving from a cell boundary to other, traffic load within a
cell does not remain constant. Thus Load balancing as a part of self organized
network solution, has become one of the most active and emerging fields of
research in Cellular Network. It involves transfer of load from overloaded
cells to the neighbouring cells with free resources for more balanced load
distribution in order to maintain appropriate end-user experience and network
performance. In this paper, review of various load balancing techniques
currently used in mobile networks is presented, with special emphasis on
techniques that are suitable for self optimization feature in future cellular
networks.