Despite recent interest in reconstructing neuronal networks, complete wiring
diagrams on the level of individual synapses remain scarce and the insights
into function they can provide remain unclear. Even for Caenorhabditis elegans,
whose neuronal network is relatively small and stereotypical from animal to
animal, published wiring diagrams are neither accurate nor complete and
self-consistent. Using materials from White et al. and new electron micrographs
we assemble whole, self-consistent gap junction and chemical synapse networks
of hermaphrodite C. elegans. We propose a method to visualize the wiring
diagram, which reflects network signal flow. We calculate statistical and
topological properties of the network, such as degree distributions, synaptic
multiplicities, and small-world properties, that help in understanding network
signal propagation. We identify neurons that may play central roles in
information processing and network motifs that could serve as functional
modules of the network. We explore propagation of neuronal activity in response
to sensory or artificial stimulation using linear systems theory and find
several activity patterns that could serve as substrates of previously
described behaviors. Finally, we analyze the interaction between the gap
junction and the chemical synapse networks. Since several statistical
properties of the C. elegans network, such as multiplicity and motif
distributions are similar to those found in mammalian neocortex, they likely
point to general principles of neuronal networks. The wiring diagram reported
here can help in understanding the mechanistic basis of behavior by generating
predictions about future experiments involving genetic perturbations, laser
ablations, or monitoring propagation of neuronal activity in response to
stimulation.