Two Component Advective Flow is the only complete solution that incorporates
outcomes of actual theoretical solutions to explain spectral and timing
properties of radiation emitted from the vicinity of black holes. It redefined
the subject of black hole astrophysics by upgrading it from some sort of
'climatology' and making it a precision science. Today any good spectral and
temporal data could be fitted with TCAF with ease using as few as four
parameters, totally un-heard of by the plethora of models which are rat-racing
to fit gross properties of data. TCAF addresses most of the issues of
observations from both galactic and extra-galactic black holes while keeping
the underlying framework (equations, assumptions) unchanged. We discuss some of
these points in this short review. As such, it concentrates on our group's work
to develop the subject till the present day. Most interestingly, these success
of TCAF were accomplished without explicitly using any magnetic field. The
magnetized disk solutions or simulated results in the literature till date are
in the dark of how these issues could be addressed, indicating that magnetic
fields in the accretion flow are either not implemented properly or may not be
as important as they are thought and made out to be. Other models of hot
accretion flow are either special cases of TCAF or are simply wrong and can
explain some special features on special occasions. We claim that any
observation that can be fitted by any of the multitude of models can be most
certainly fitted with TCAF using far fewer number of parameters.