In the last few years there has been significant growth in the area of
wireless communication. IEEE 802.16/WiMAX is the network which is designed for
providing high speed wide area broadband wireless access; WiMAX is an emerging
wireless technology for creating multi-hop Mesh network. Future generation
networks will be characterized by variable and high data rates, Quality of
Services (QoS), seamless mobility both within a network and between networks of
different technologies and service providers. A technology is developed to
accomplish these necessities is regular by IEEE, is 802.16, also called as
WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access). This architecture aims
to apply Long range connectivity, High data rates, High security, Low power
utilization and Excellent Quality of Services and squat deployment costs to a
wireless access technology on a metropolitan level. In this paper we have
observed the performance analysis of location based resource allocation for
WiMAX and WLAN-WiMAX client and in second phase we observed the rate-adaptive
algorithms. We know that base station (BS) is observed the ranging first for
all subscribers then established the link between them and in final phase they
will allocate the resource with Subcarriers allocation according to the demand
(UL) i.e. video, voice and data application. We propose linear approach,
Active-Set optimization and Genetic Algorithm for Resource Allocation in
downlink Mobile WiMAX networks. Purpose of proposed algorithms is to optimize
total throughput. Simulation results show that Genetic Algorithm and Active-Set
algorithm performs better than previous methods in terms of higher capacities
but GA have high complexity then active set.