The wireless networks technologies are becoming more prevalent. As part of
our courses, we have to deal with the technical aspects of these technologies.
However, the experience of mobile telephony has shown fears that these products
can lead to the general public. The latter comes from the use of
electromagnetic waves at frequencies close to the frequencies of microwaves
oven(2.45 GHz). Studies are under way for years in order to identify the
possible effects on the body related to prolonged use of mobile phones.
Wireless networks like WiFi or ZigBee for example works with microwave
frequencies. On the other hand, problems relating to electromagnetic
compatibility waves with the electronic devices must also be studied. The
question of the safety of these technologies must be addressed with the
students. They will may need to install such equipment. We have integrated the
teaching of wireless networks in a chapter dealing with current standards of
exposure to electromagnetic waves for living beings and the electronic devices.
The aim of our approach is the obtention of knowledges by the student. so he
will be able to form an opinion and to provide a speech enlightened to future
users of these networks. To this end, we have developed a visualization tool
for the distribution of electromagnetic fields. This tool being used will help
you understand the electromagnetic environment in which we live and quantify
the values of electromagnetic fields (telephony, television, radio, WiFi,
Bluetooth, ZigBee, microwave oven, etc.).