The maintenance of large-scale differential rotation in stellar convective
regions by rotationally influenced convective stresses also drives large-scale
meridional flows by angular--momentum conservation. This process is an example
of ``gyroscopic pumping'', and has recently been studied in detail in the solar
context. An important question concerns the extent to which these
gyroscopically pumped meridional flows penetrate into nearby stably stratified
(radiative) regions, since they could potentially be an important source of
non-local mixing. Here we present an extensive study of the gyroscopic pumping
mechanism, using a combination of analytical calculations and numerical
simulations both in Cartesian geometry and in spherical geometry. The various
methods, when compared with one another, provide physical insight into the
process itself, as well as increasingly sophisticated means of estimating the
gyroscopic pumping rate. As an example of application, we investigate the
effects of this large-scale mixing process on the surface abundances of the
light elements Li and Be for stars in the mass range 1.3-1.5 solar masses
(so-called ``Li-dip stars''). We find that gyroscopic pumping is a very
efficient mechanism for circulating material between the surface and the deep
interior, so much in fact that it over-estimates Li and Be depletion by orders
of magnitude for stars on the hot side of the dip.However, when the diffusion
of chemical species back into the surface convection zone is taken into
account, a good fit with observed surface abundances of Li and Be as a function
of stellar mass in the Hyades cluster can be found for reasonable choices of
model parameters.