We present a high spatial resolution Halpha survey of 23 cooling flow
clusters using the Maryland Magellan Tunable Filter (MMTF), covering 1-2 orders
of magnitude in cooling rate, dM/dt, temperature and entropy. We find 8/23
(35%) of our clusters have complex, filamentary morphologies at Halpha, while
an additional 7/23 (30%) have marginally extended or nuclear Halpha emission,
in general agreement with previous studies of line emission in cooling flow
cluster BCGs. A weak correlation between the integrated near-UV luminosity and
the Halpha luminosity is also found for our complete sample, with a large
amount of scatter about the expected relation for photoionization by young
stars. We detect Halpha emission out to the X-ray cooling radius, but no
further, in several clusters and find a strong correlation between the Halpha
luminosity contained in filaments and the X-ray cooling flow rate of the
cluster, suggesting that the warm ionized gas is linked to the cooling flow.
Furthermore, we detect a strong enhancement in the cooling properties of the
ICM coincident with the Halpha emission, compared to the surrounding ICM at the
same radius. While the filaments in a few clusters may be entrained by buoyant
radio bubbles, in general, the radially-infalling cooling flow model provides a
better explanation for the observed trends. The correlation of the Halpha and
X-ray properties suggests that conduction may be important in keeping the
filaments ionized. The thinness of the filaments suggests that magnetic fields
are an important part of channeling the gas and shielding it from the
surrounding hot ICM.