We investigate wave propagation and energy transport in magnetic elements,
which are representatives of small scale magnetic flux concentrations in the
magnetic network on the Sun. This is a continuation of earlier work by Hasan et
al. (2005). The new features in the present investigation include a
quantitative evaluation of the energy transport in the various modes and for
different field strengths, as well as the effect of the boundary-layer
thickness on wave propagation. We carry out 2-D MHD numerical simulations of
magnetic flux concentrations for strong and moderate magnetic fields. Waves are
excited in the tube and ambient medium by a transverse impulsive motion of the
lower boundary. The nature of the modes excited depends on the value of beta.
Mode conversion occurs in the moderate field case when the fast mode crosses
the beta=1 contour. In the strong field case the fast mode undergoes conversion
from predominantly magnetic to predominantly acoustic when waves are leaking
from the interior of the flux concentration to the ambient medium. We also
estimate the energy fluxes in the acoustic and magnetic modes. The main
conclusions of our work are twofold: firstly, for transverse, impulsive
excitation, flux tubes/sheets with strong fields are more efficient than those
with weak fields in providing acoustic flux to the chromosphere. However, there
is insufficient energy in the acoustic flux to balance the chromospheric
radiative losses in the network, even for the strong field case. Secondly, the
acoustic emission from the interface between the flux concentration and the
ambient medium decreases with the width of the boundary layer.