We present the results of magnetization and magneto-transport measurements in
the superconducting state of an as-cast Nb$_{75}$Zr$_{25}$ alloy. We also
report the careful investigation of the microstructure of our sample at various
length scales by using optical, scanning electron and transmission electron
microscopies. The information of microstructure is used to understand the flux
pinning properties in the superconducting state within the framework of
collective pinning. The magneto-transport measurements show a non-Arrhenius
behaviour of the temperature and field dependent resistivity in the flux flow
region. This non-Arrhenius behaviour is understood in terms of a model, which
was originally proposed for viscous flow of disordered solids and is popularly
known in the literature as the `shoving' model. The activation energy for flux
flow is obtained from magneto-transport measurements and is assumed to be
mainly the elastic energy stored in the flux-line lattice. The scaling of
pinning force density with respect to reduced field indicates the presence of
two pinning mechanisms of different origins. The elastic constants of the
flux-line lattice are estimated from magnetization measurements and are used to
estimate the length scale of vortex lattice movement, or the volume displaced
by the flux-line lattice, during flux flow. It appears that the vortex lattice
displacement estimated from elastic energy considerations is of the same order
of magnitude as that of the flux-bundle hopping length when a finite resistance
appears during flux flow. Our results could provide possible directions for
establishing a framework where vortex matter and glass forming liquids or
amorphous solids can be treated in a similar manner for understanding the
phenomenon of viscous flow in disordered solids or more generally the pinning
and depinning properties of elastic manifolds in random media.