Modern cellular networks are witnessing an unprecedented evolution from
classical, centralized and homogenous architectures into a mix of various
technologies, in which the network devices are densely and randomly deployed in
a decentralized and heterogenous architecture. This shift in network
architecture requires network devices to become more autonomous and,
potentially, cooperate with one another. Such cooperation can, for example,
take place between interfering small access points that seek to coordinate
their radio resource allocation, nearby single-antenna users that can
cooperatively perform virtual MIMO communications, or even unlicensed users
that wish to cooperatively sense the spectrum of the licensed users. Such
cooperative mechanisms involve the simultaneous sharing and distribution of
resources among a number of overlapping cooperative groups or coalitions. In
this paper, a novel mathematical framework from cooperative games, dubbed
\emph{overlapping coalition formation games} (OCF games), is introduced to
model and solve such cooperative scenarios. First, the concepts of OCF games
are presented, and then, several algorithmic aspects are studied for two main
classes of OCF games. Subsequently, two example applications, namely,
interference management and cooperative spectrum sensing, are discussed in
detail to show how the proposed models and algorithms can be used in the future
scenarios of wireless systems. Finally, we conclude by providing an overview on
future directions and applications of OCF games.