We derive the mean-field equations arising as the limit of a network of
interacting spiking neurons, as the number of neurons goes to infinity. The
neurons belong to a fixed number of populations and are represented either by
the Hodgkin-Huxley model or by one of its simplified version, the
Fitzhugh-Nagumo model. The synapses between neurons are either electrical or
chemical. The network is assumed to be fully connected. The maximum
conductances vary randomly. Under the condition that all neurons initial
conditions are drawn independently from the same law that depends only on the
population they belong to, we prove that a propagation of chaos phenomenon
takes places, namely that in the mean-field limit, any finite number of neurons
become independent and, within each population, have the same probability
distribution. This probability distribution is solution of a set of implicit
equations, either nonlinear stochastic differential equations resembling the
McKean-Vlasov equations, or non-local partial differential equations resembling
the McKean-Vlasov-Fokker- Planck equations. We prove the well-posedness of
these equations, i.e. the existence and uniqueness of a solution. We also show
the results of some preliminary numerical experiments that indicate that the
mean-field equations are a good representation of the mean activity of a
?finite size network, even for modest sizes. These experiment also indicate
that the McKean-Vlasov-Fokker- Planck equations may be a good way to understand
the mean-field dynamics through, e.g., a bifurcation analysis.