This paper presents the first implementation of a two-way relay network based
on the principle of physical-layer network coding. To date, only a simplified
version of physical-layer network coding (PNC) method, called analog network
coding (ANC), has been successfully implemented. The advantage of ANC is that
it is simple to implement; the disadvantage, on the other hand, is that the
relay amplifies the noise along with the signal before forwarding the signal.
PNC systems in which the relay performs XOR or other denoising PNC mappings of
the received signal have the potential for significantly better performance.
However, the implementation of such PNC systems poses many challenges. For
example, the relay must be able to deal with symbol and carrier-phase
asynchronies of the simultaneous signals received from the two end nodes, and
the relay must perform channel estimation before detecting the signals. We
investigate a PNC implementation in the frequency domain, referred to as FPNC,
to tackle these challenges. FPNC is based on OFDM. In FPNC, XOR mapping is
performed on the OFDM samples in each subcarrier rather than on the samples in
the time domain. We implement FPNC on the universal soft radio peripheral
(USRP) platform. Our implementation requires only moderate modifications of the
packet preamble design of 802.11a/g OFDM PHY. With the help of the cyclic
prefix (CP) in OFDM, symbol asynchrony and the multi-path fading effects can be
dealt with in a similar fashion. Our experimental results show that
symbol-synchronous and symbol-asynchronous FPNC have essentially the same BER
performance, for both channel-coded and unchannel-coded FPNC.