We propose a variational approach to identification of an optimal nonlinear
eddy viscosity as a subscale turbulence representation for POD models. The
ansatz for the eddy viscosity is given in terms of an arbitrary function of the
resolved fluctuation energy. This function is found as a minimizer of a cost
functional measuring the difference between the target data coming from a
resolved direct or large-eddy simulation of the flow and its reconstruction
based on the POD model. The optimization is performed with a data-assimilation
approach generalizing the 4D-VAR method. POD models with optimal eddy
viscosities are presented for a 2D incompressible mixing layer at $Re=500$
(based on the initial vorticity thickness and the velocity of the high-speed
stream) and a 3D Ahmed body wake at $Re=300,000$ (based on the body height and
the free-stream velocity). The variational optimization formulation elucidates
a number of interesting physical insights concerning the eddy-viscosity ansatz
used. The 20-dimensional model of the mixing-layer reveals a negative
eddy-viscosity regime at low fluctuation levels which improves the transient
times towards the attractor. The 100-dimensional wake model yields more
accurate energy distributions as compared to the nonlinear modal eddy-viscosity
benchmark {proposed recently} by \"Osth et al. (2014). Our methodology can be
applied to construct quite arbitrary closure relations and, more generally,
constitutive relations optimizing statistical properties of a broad class of
reduced-order models.