Neural networks have been used successfully to a broad range of areas such as
business, data mining, drug discovery and biology. In medicine, neural networks
have been applied widely in medical diagnosis, detection and evaluation of new
drugs and treatment cost estimation. In addition, neural networks have begin
practice in data mining strategies for the aim of prediction, knowledge
discovery. This paper will present the application of neural networks for the
prediction and analysis of antitubercular activity of Oxazolines and Oxazoles
derivatives. This study presents techniques based on the development of Single
hidden layer neural network (SHLFFNN), Gradient Descent Back propagation neural
network (GDBPNN), Gradient Descent Back propagation with momentum neural
network (GDBPMNN), Back propagation with Weight decay neural network (BPWDNN)
and Quantile regression neural network (QRNN) of artificial neural network
(ANN) models Here, we comparatively evaluate the performance of five neural
network techniques. The evaluation of the efficiency of each model by ways of
benchmark experiments is an accepted application. Cross-validation and
resampling techniques are commonly used to derive point estimates of the
performances which are compared to identify methods with good properties.
Predictive accuracy was evaluated using the root mean squared error (RMSE),
Coefficient determination(???), mean absolute error(MAE), mean percentage
error(MPE) and relative square error(RSE). We found that all five neural
network models were able to produce feasible models. QRNN model is outperforms
with all statistical tests amongst other four models.