To control for multiscale effects in networks, one can transform the matrix
of (in general) weighted, directed internodal flows to bistochastic
(doubly-stochastic) form, using the iterative proportional fitting
(Sinkhorn-Knopp) procedure, which alternatively scales row and column sums to
all equal 1. The dominant entries in the bistochasticized table can then be
employed for network reduction, using strong component hierarchical clustering.
We illustrate various facets of this well-established, widely-applied two-stage
algorithm with the 3, 107 x 3, 107 (asymmetric) 1995-2000 intercounty migration
flow table for the United States. We compare the results obtained with ones
using the disparity filter, for "extracting the "multiscale backbone of complex
weighted networks", recently put forth by Serrano, Boguna and Vespignani (SBV)
(Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 106 [2009], 6483), upon which we have briefly commented
(Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 106 [2009], E66). The performance of the bistochastic
filter appears to be superior-at least in this specific case-in two respects:
(1) it requires far fewer links to complete a stongly-connected network
backbone; and (2) it "belittles" small flows and nodes less-a principal
desideratum of SBV-in the sense that the correlations of the nonzero raw flows
are considerably weaker with the corresponding bistochastized links than with
the significance levels yielded by the disparity filter. Additional comparative
studies--as called for by SBV-of these two filtering procedures, in particular
as regards their topological properties, should be of considerable interest.
Relatedly, in its many geographic applications, the two-stage procedure
has--with rare exceptions-clustered contiguous areas, often reconstructing
traditional regions (islands, for example), even though no contiguity
constraints, at all, are imposed beforehand.