We present a new convolutional neural network-based time-series model.
Typical convolutional neural network (CNN) architectures rely on the use of
max-pooling operators in between layers, which leads to reduced resolution at
the top layers. Instead, in this work we consider a fully convolutional network
(FCN) architecture that uses causal filtering operations, and allows for the
rate of the output signal to be the same as that of the input signal. We
furthermore propose an undecimated version of the FCN, which we refer to as the
undecimated fully convolutional neural network (UFCNN), and is motivated by the
undecimated wavelet transform. Our experimental results verify that using the
undecimated version of the FCN is necessary in order to allow for effective
time-series modeling. The UFCNN has several advantages compared to other
time-series models such as the recurrent neural network (RNN) and long
short-term memory (LSTM), since it does not suffer from either the vanishing or
exploding gradients problems, and is therefore easier to train. Convolution
operations can also be implemented more efficiently compared to the recursion
that is involved in RNN-based models. We evaluate the performance of our model
in a synthetic target tracking task using bearing only measurements generated
from a state-space model, a probabilistic modeling of polyphonic music
sequences problem, and a high frequency trading task using a time-series of
ask/bid quotes and their corresponding volumes. Our experimental results using
synthetic and real datasets verify the significant advantages of the UFCNN
compared to the RNN and LSTM baselines.