Network communities represent mesoscopic structure for understanding the
organization of real-world networks, where nodes often belong to multiple
communities and form overlapping community structure in the network. Due to
non-triviality in finding the exact boundary of such overlapping communities,
this problem has become challenging, and therefore huge effort has been devoted
to detect overlapping communities from the network.
  In this paper, we present PVOC (Permanence based Vertex-replication algorithm
for Overlapping Community detection), a two-stage framework to detect
overlapping community structure. We build on a novel observation that
non-overlapping community structure detected by a standard disjoint community
detection algorithm from a network has high resemblance with its actual
overlapping community structure, except the overlapping part. Based on this
observation, we posit that there is perhaps no need of building yet another
overlapping community finding algorithm; but one can efficiently manipulate the
output of any existing disjoint community finding algorithm to obtain the
required overlapping structure. We propose a new post-processing technique that
by combining with any existing disjoint community detection algorithm, can
suitably process each vertex using a new vertex-based metric, called
permanence, and thereby finds out overlapping candidates with their community
memberships. Experimental results on both synthetic and large real-world
networks show that PVOC significantly outperforms six state-of-the-art
overlapping community detection algorithms in terms of high similarity of the
output with the ground-truth structure. Thus our framework not only finds
meaningful overlapping communities from the network, but also allows us to put
an end to the constant effort of building yet another overlapping community
detection algorithm.