Cooperative multihop communication can greatly increase network throughput,
yet packet forwarding for other nodes involves opportunity and energy cost for
relays. Thus one of the pre-requisite problems in the successful implementation
of multihop transmission is how to foster cooperation among selfish nodes.
Existing researches mainly adopt monetary stimulating. In this manuscript, we
propose instead a simple and self-enforcing forwarding incentive scheme free of
indirect monetary remunerating for asymmetric (uplink multihop, downlink
single-hop) cellar network based on coalitional game theory, which comprises
double compensation, namely, Inter- BEA, global stimulating policy allotting
resources among relaying coalitions according to group size, and Intra-BEA,
local compensating and allocating rule within coalitions. Firstly, given the
global allotting policy, we introduce a fair allocation estimating approach
which includes remunerating for relaying cost using Myerson value for partition
function game, to enlighten the design of local allocating rules. Secondly,
given the inter- and intra-BEA relay fostering approach, we check stability of
coalition structures in terms of internal and external stability as well as
inductive core. Theoretic analysis and numerical simulation show that our
measure can provide communication opportunities for outer ring nodes and
enlarge system coverage, while at the same time provide enough motivation with
respect to resource allocation and energy saving for nodes in inner and middle
ring to relay for own profits.