Aims: The interactions of velocity scales on the Sun's surface, from
granulation to supergranulation are still not understood, nor are their
interaction with magnetic fields. We thus aim at giving a better description of
dynamics in the mesoscale range which lies between the two scales mentioned
above. Method: We analyse a 48h high-resolution time sequence of the quiet Sun
photosphere at the disk center obtained with the Solar Optical Telescope
onboard Hinode. The observations, which have a field of view of 100
\arcsec$\times$ 100 \arcsec, typically contain four supergranules. We monitor
in detail the motion and evolution of granules as well as those of the radial
magnetic field. Results: This analysis allows us to better characterize Trees
of Fragmenting Granules issued from repeated fragmentation of granules,
especially their lifetime statistics. Using floating corks advected by measured
velocity fields, we show their crucial role in the advection of the magnetic
field and in the build up of the network. Finally, thanks to the long duration
of the time series, we estimate that the turbulent diffusion coefficient
induced by horizontal motion is approximately $430 \mathrm{km}^2
\mathrm{s}^{-1}$. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that the long living
families contribute to the formation of the magnetic network and suggest that
supergranulation could be an emergent length scale building up as small
magnetic elements are advected and concentrated by TFG flows. Our estimate for
the magnetic diffusion associated with this horizontal motion might provide a
useful input for mean-field dynamo models.