Grid cells in the rodent entorhinal cortex display strikingly regular firing
responses to the animal's position in 2-D space, and have been hypothesized to
form the neural substrate for dead-reckoning. However, in previous models
suggested for grid cell activity, errors accumulate rapidly in the integration
of velocity inputs. To produce grid-cell like responses, these models would
require frequent resets triggered by external sensory cues, casting doubt on
the dead-reckoning potential of the grid cell system. Here we focus on the
accuracy of path integration in continuous attractor models of grid cell
activity. We show, in contrast to previous models, that continuous attractor
models can generate regular triangular grid responses, based on inputs that
encode only the rat's velocity and heading. We consider the role of the network
boundary in integration performance, and show that both periodic and aperiodic
networks are capable of accurate path integration, despite important
differences in their attractor manifolds. We show that the rate at which errors
accumulate in the integration of velocity depends on the network's organization
and size, and on the intrinsic noise within the network. With a plausible range
of parameters and the inclusion of spike variability, our model can accurately
integrate velocity inputs over a maximum of ~10-100 m and ~1-10 minutes. These
findings form a proof-of-concept that continuous attractor dynamics may
underlie velocity integration in dMEC. The simulations also generate pertinent
upper bounds on the accuracy of integration that may be achieved by continuous
attractor dynamics in the grid cell network. We suggest experiments to test the
continuous attractor model and differentiate it from models in which single
cells establish their responses independently of each other.