Recent work has shown that multimodal association areas-including frontal,
temporal and parietal cortex-are focal points of functional network
reconfiguration during human learning and performance of cognitive tasks. On
the other hand, neurocomputational theories of category learning suggest that
the basal ganglia and related subcortical structures are focal points of
functional network reconfiguration during early learning of some categorization
tasks, but become less so with the development of automatic categorization
performance. Using a combination of network science and multilevel regression,
we explore how changes in the connectivity of small brain regions can predict
behavioral changes during training in a visual categorization task. We find
that initial category learning, as indexed by changes in accuracy, is predicted
by increasingly efficient integrative processing in subcortical areas, with
higher functional specialization, more efficient integration across modules,
but a lower cost in terms of redundancy of information processing. The
development of automaticity, as indexed by changes in the speed of correct
responses, was predicted by lower clustering (particularly in subcortical
areas), higher strength (highest in cortical areas) and higher betweenness
centrality. By combining neurocomputational theories and network scientific
methods, these results synthesize the dissociative roles of multimodal
association areas and subcortical structures in the development of automaticity
during category learning.