In this work, we discuss the joint precoding with finite rate feedback in the
so-called network MIMO where the TXs share the knowledge of the data symbols to
be transmitted. We introduce a distributed channel state information (DCSI)
model where each TX has its own local estimate of the overall multi-user MIMO
channel and must make a precoding decision solely based on the available local
CSI. We refer to this channel as the DCSI-MIMO channel and the precoding
problem as distributed precoding. We extend to the DCSI setting the work from
Jindal for the conventional MIMO Broadcast Channel (BC) in which the number of
Degrees of Freedom (DoFs) achieved by Zero Forcing (ZF) was derived as a
function of the scaling in the logarithm of the Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) of
the number of quantizing bits. Particularly, we show the seemingly pessimistic
result that the number of DoFs at each user is limited by the worst CSI across
all users and across all TXs. This is in contrast to the conventional MIMO BC
where the number of DoFs at one user is solely dependent on the quality of the
estimation of his own feedback. Consequently, we provide precoding schemes
improving on the achieved number of DoFs. For the two-user case, the derived
novel precoder achieves a number of DoFs limited by the best CSI accuracy
across the TXs instead of the worst with conventional ZF. We also advocate the
use of hierarchical quantization of the CSI, for which we show that
considerable gains are possible. Finally, we use the previous analysis to
derive the DoFs optimal allocation of the feedback bits to the various TXs
under a constraint on the size of the aggregate feedback in the network, in the
case where conventional ZF is used.