In this study, we looked at the effect of promotion in the speed and width of
spread of information on the Internet by tracking the diffusion of news
articles over a social network. Speed of spread means the number of readers
that the news has reached in a given time, while width of spread means how far
the story has travelled from the news originator within the social network.
After analyzing six stories in a 30-hour time span, we found out that the
lifetime of a story's popularity among the members of the social network has
three phases: Expansion, Front-page, and Saturation. Expansion phase starts
when a story is published and the article spreads from a source node to nodes
within a connected component of the social network. Front-page phase happens
when a news aggregator promotes the story in its front page resulting to the
story's faster rate of spread among the connected nodes while at the same time
spreading the article to nodes outside the original connected component of the
social network. Saturation phase is when the story ages and its rate of spread
within the social network slows down, suggesting popularity saturation among
the nodes. Within these three phases, we observed minimal changes on the width
of information spread as suggested by relatively low increase of the width of
the spread's diameter within the social network. We see that this paper
provides the various stakeholders a first-hand empirical data for modeling,
designing, and improving the current web-based services, specifically the IT
educators for designing and improving academic curricula, and for improving the
current web-enabled deployment of knowledge and online evaluation of skills.