Based on the approach of flow distances, the international trade flow system
is studied from the perspective of multi-layer flow network. A model of
multi-layer flow network is proposed for modelling and analyzing multiple types
of flows in flow systems. Then, flow distances are introduced, and symmetric
minimum flow distance is presented. Subsequently, we discuss the establishment
of the multi-layer flow networks of international trade from two coupled
viewpoints, i.e., the viewpoint of commodity flow and that of money flow. Thus,
the multi-layer flow networks of international trade is explored. First,
trading "trophic levels" are adopted to depict positions that economies
occupied in the flow network. We find that the distributions of trading
"trophic levels" have the similar clustering pattern for different types of
commodity, and there are some regularities between money flow network and
commodity flow network. Second, we find that active and competitive countries
trade a wide spectrum of products, while inactive and underdeveloped countries
trade a limited variety of products. Besides, some abnormal countries import
many types of goods, which the vast majority of countries do not need to
import. It may indicate an abnormal economic status. Third, harmonic node
centrality is proposed and we find the phenomenon of centrality stratification.
It means that competitive countries tend to occupy the central positions in the
trading of a large variety of commodities, while underdeveloped countries
likely in the peripheral positions in the trading of their limited varieties of
products. Fourth, we find that manufactured products have significant larger
mean first-passage flow distances from the source to the sink than that of
primary products.