We explore the geometry of complex networks in terms of an n-dimensional
Euclidean embedding represented by the Moore-Penrose pseudo-inverse of the
graph Laplacian $(\bb L^+)$. The squared distance of a node $i$ to the origin
in this n-dimensional space $(l^+_{ii})$, yields a topological centrality index
$(\mathcal{C}^{*}(i) = 1/l^+_{ii})$ for node $i$. In turn, the sum of
reciprocals of individual node structural centralities,
$\sum_{i}1/\mathcal{C}^*(i) = \sum_{i} l^+_{ii}$, i.e. the trace of $\bb L^+$,
yields the well-known Kirchhoff index $(\mathcal{K})$, an overall structural
descriptor for the network. In addition to this geometric interpretation, we
provide alternative interpretations of the proposed indices to reveal their
true topological characteristics: first, in terms of forced detour overheads
and frequency of recurrences in random walks that has an interesting analogy to
voltage distributions in the equivalent electrical network; and then as the
average connectedness of $i$ in all the bi-partitions of the graph. These
interpretations respectively help establish the topological centrality
$(\mathcal{C}^{*}(i))$ of node $i$ as a measure of its overall position as well
as its overall connectedness in the network; thus reflecting the robustness of
node $i$ to random multiple edge failures. Through empirical evaluations using
synthetic and real world networks, we demonstrate how the topological
centrality is better able to distinguish nodes in terms of their structural
roles in the network and, along with Kirchhoff index, is appropriately
sensitive to perturbations/rewirings in the network.