We consider single-source single-sink (ss-ss) multi-hop networks, with
slow-fading links and single-antenna half-duplex relays. We identify two
families of networks that are multi-hop generalizations of the well-studied
two-hop network: K-Parallel-Path (KPP) networks and layered networks. KPP
networks can be viewed as the union of K node-disjoint parallel relaying paths,
each of length greater than one. KPP networks are then generalized to KPP(I)
networks, which permit interference between paths and to KPP(D) networks, which
possess a direct link from source to sink. We characterize the DMT of these
families of networks completely for K > 3. Layered networks are networks
comprising of relaying layers with edges existing only within the same layer or
between adjacent layers. We prove that a linear DMT between the maximum
diversity d_{max} and the maximum multiplexing gain of 1 is achievable for
fully-connected layered networks. This is shown to be equal to the optimal DMT
if the number of layers is less than 4. For multi-antenna KPP and layered
networks, we provide an achievable DMT region.
  For arbitrary ss-ss single-antenna directed-acyclic full-duplex networks, we
prove that a linear tradeoff between maximum diversity and maximum multiplexing
gain is achievable. All protocols in this paper are explicit and use only
amplify and forward (AF) relaying. We also construct codes with short
block-lengths based on cyclic division algebras that achieve the optimal DMT
for all the proposed schemes. Two key implications of the results in the paper
are that the half-duplex constraint does not entail any rate loss for a large
class of networks and that simple AF protocols are often sufficient to attain
the optimal DMT.