Neutrinos can interact in the atmosphere (downward-going {\nu}) or in the
Earth crust (Earth-skimming {\nu}), producing air showers that can be observed
with arrays of detectors at the ground. The surface detector array of the
Pierre Auger Observatory can detect these types of cascades. The distinguishing
signature for neutrino events is the presence of very inclined showers produced
close to the ground (i.e., after having traversed a large amount of
atmosphere). Up to now, the Pierre Auger Observatory did not find any candidate
for a neutrino event.
  A very low rate of events potentially generated by neutrinos is a significant
challenge for a detection technique and requires both sophisticated algorithms
and high-resolution hardware. We present a trigger based on a pipeline
artificial neural network (ANN) implemented in a large FPGA which after
learning can recognize traces corresponding to special types of events.
  The structure of an ANN algorithm being developed on the MATLAB platform has
been implemented into the fast logic of the biggest Cyclone V E FPGA used for
the prototype of the Front-End Board for the Auger-Beyond-2015 effort. Several
algorithms were tested, however, the Levenberg-Marquardt one seems to be the
most efficient.
  The network was taught: a) to recognize "old" showers (learning on a basis of
real very inclined Auger showers (positive markers) and real standard showers
especially triggered by Time over Threshold (negative marker), b) to recognize
"young" showers (on the basis of simulated "young" events (positive markers)
and standard Auger events as a negative reference). A three-layer neural
network being taught by real very inclined Auger showers shows a good
efficiency in pattern recognition of 16-point traces with profiles
characteristic of "old" showers.