Intermediate-scale spurs are common in spiral galaxies, but perhaps most
distinctively evident in a recent HST image of M51 (Scoville & Rector 2001). We
investigate, using time-dependent numerical MHD simulations, how such spurs
could form (and subsequently fragment) from the interaction of a gaseous ISM
with a stellar spiral arm. We model the gaseous medium as a self-gravitating,
magnetized, differentially-rotating, razor-thin disk. The basic flow shocks and
compresses as it passes through a local segment of a tightly-wound, trailing
stellar spiral arm, modeled as a rigidly-rotating gravitational potential. We
first construct 1D profiles for flows with spiral shocks. When the post-shock
Toomre parameter Q_sp is sufficiently small, self-gravity is too large for
one-dimensional steady solutions to exist. The critical values of Q_sp are 0.8,
0.5, and 0.4 for our models with zero, sub-equipartition, and equipartition
magnetic fields, respectively. We then study the growth of self-gravitating
perturbations in fully 2D flows, and find that spur-like structures rapidly
emerge in our magnetized models. We associate this gravitational instability
with the magneto-Jeans mechanism, in which magnetic tension forces oppose the
Coriolis forces. The shearing and expanding velocity field shapes the condensed
material into spurs as it flows downstream from the arms. Although we find
swing amplification can help form spurs when the arm-interarm contrast is
moderate, unmagnetized systems that are quasi-axisymmetrically stable are
generally also stable to nonaxisymmetric perturbations, suggesting that
magnetic effects are essential. In nonlinear stages, the spurs in our models
undergo fragmentation to form 4\times 10^6 solar mass clumps, which we suggest
could evolve into bright arm/interarm HII regions as seen in spiral galaxies.