Non-relativistic three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamical (MHD) simulations of
Poynting flux dominated (PFD) jets are presented. Our study focuses on the
propagation of strongly magnetized hypersonic, but sub-Alfv\'enic ($C^{2}_{\rm
s} \ll V^{2}_{\rm jet} < V^{2}_{\rm A}$) flow and on the subsequent development
of a current-driven (CD) kink instability. This instability may be responsible
for the ``wiggled'' structures seen in sub-parsec scale (VLBI) jets. In the
present paper, we investigate the nonlinear behavior of PFD jets in a variety
of external ambient magnetized gas distributions, including those with density,
pressure, and temperature gradients. Our numerical results show that the jets
can develop CD distortions in the trans-Alfv\'enic flow case, even when the
flow itself is still strongly magnetically dominated. An internal
non-axisymmetric body mode grows on time scales of order of the Alfv\'en
crossing time and distorts the structure and magnetic configuration of the jet.
The kink ($m=1$) mode of the CD instability, driven by the radial component of
the Lorentz force, grows faster than other higher order modes ($m>1$). In the
jet frame the mode grows locally and expands radially at each axial position
where the jet is unstable: the instability, therefore, does not propagate as a
wave along the jet length. A naturally-occurring, external helically magnetized
wind, which is (quasi-) axially current-free, surrounds the well-collimated
current-carrying jet and reduces velocity shear between the jet and external
medium. This stabilizes the growth of MHD Kelvin-Helmholtz surface modes in the
inner jet flow.