There is empirical evidence from a range of disciplines that as the
connectivity of a network increases, we observe an increase in the average
fitness of the system. But at the same time, there is an increase in the
proportion of failure/extinction events which are extremely large. The
probability of observing an extreme event remains very low, but it is markedly
higher than in the system with lower degrees of connectivity. We give examples
from complex systems such as outages in the US power grid, the robustness
properties of cell biology networks, and trade links and the propagation of
both currency crises and disease. We consider networks which are populated by
agents which are heterogeneous in terms of their fitness for survival. The
network evolves over time, and in each period agents take self-interested
decisions to increase their fitness for survival to form alliances which
increase the connectivity of the network. The network is subjected to external
negative shocks both with respect to the size of the shock and the spatial
impact of the shock. We examine the size/frequency distribution of extinctions
and how this distribution evolves as the connectivity of the network grows. The
results are robust with respect to the choice of statistical distribution of
the shocks. We find that increasing the number of connections causes an
increase in the average fitness of agents, yet at the same time makes the
system as whole more vulnerable to catastrophic failure/extinction events on an
near-global scale.