(abridged)The structure formed by the shocked winds of a massive star and a
non-accreting pulsar in a binary suffers periodic and random variations of
orbital and non-linear dynamical origin. For the 1st time, we simulate in 3 D
the interaction of isotropic stellar and relativistic pulsar winds along 1 full
orbit, on scales well beyond the binary size. We also investigate the impact of
grid resolution and size, and of different EoOs: a gamma-constant ideal gas,
and an ideal gas with gamma dependent on temperature. We carry out, with the
code PLUTO, relativistic HD simulations in 2 and 3 D of the interaction of a
slow wind and a relativistic wind with Gamma=2 along 1 full orbit up to ~100 x
the binary size. The different 2-D simulations are carried out with equal and
larger grid resolution and size, and 1 of them is done with a more realistic
equation of state, than in 3 D. The simulations in 3 D confirm previous results
in 2 D. The shocked flows are subject to a faster instabilities growth in 3 D,
which enhances the presence of shocks, mixing, and large-scale disruption. In 2
D, higher resolution simulations confirm lower resolution results, simulations
with larger grid sizes strengthen the case for the loss of global coherence of
the shocked-wind structure, and simulations with 2 different EoOs yield very
similar results. In addition to the KHI, we find that the Richtmyer-Meshkov and
the RTI are likely acting together in the shocked flow evolution. Simulations
in 3 D confirm that the interaction of stellar and pulsar winds yields
structures that evolve non-linearly and get strongly entangled. The evolution
is accompanied by strong kinetic energy dissipation, rapid changes in flow
orientation and speed, and turbulent motion. The results strengthen the case
for the loss of global coherence of the shocked structure on large scales,
although higher pulsar wind speed simulations are needed.