An efficient way to precisely pattern particles on solid surfaces is to
dispense and evaporate colloidal drops, as for bioassays. The dried deposits
often exhibit complex structures exemplified by the coffee ring pattern, where
most particles have accumulated at the periphery of the deposit. In this work,
the formation of deposits during the drying of nanoliter colloidal drops on a
flat substrate is investigated numerically and experimentally. A finite-element
numerical model is developed that solves the Navier-Stokes, heat and mass
transport equations in a Lagrangian framework. The diffusion of vapor in the
atmosphere is solved numerically, providing an exact boundary condition for the
evaporative flux at the droplet-air interface. Laplace stresses and thermal
Marangoni stresses are accounted for. The particle concentration is tracked by
solving a continuum advection-diffusion equation. Wetting line motion and the
interaction of the free surface of the drop with the growing deposit are
modeled based on criteria on wetting angles. Numerical results for evaporation
times and flow field are in very good agreement with published experimental and
theoretical results. We also performed transient visualization experiments of
water and isopropanol drops loaded with polystyrene microsphere evaporating on
respectively glass and polydimethylsiloxane substrates. Measured evaporation
times, deposit shape and sizes, and flow fields are in very good agreement with
the numerical results. Different flow patterns caused by the competition of
Marangoni loops and radial flow are shown to determine the deposit shape to be
either a ring-like pattern or a homogeneous bump.