We show for five DN systems, SS Cyg, VW Hyi, RU Peg, WW Cet and T Leo that
the UV and X-ray power spectra of their time variable light curves are similar
in quiescence. All of them show a break in their power spectra, which in the
framework of the model of propagating fluctuations indicates inner disk
truncation. We derive the inner disk radii for these systems in a range
(10-3)$\times10^{9}$ cm. We analyze the RXTE data of SS Cyg in outburst and
compare it with the power spectra, obtained during the period of quiescence. We
show that during the outburst the disk moves towards the white dwarf and
recedes as the outburst declines. We calculate the correlation between the
simultaneous UV and X-ray light curves of the five DN studied in this work,
using the XMM-Newton data obtained in the quiescence and find X-ray time lags
of 96-181 sec. This can be explained by the travel time of matter from a
truncated inner disk to the white dwarf surface. We suggest that, in general,
DN may have truncated accretion disks in quiescence which can also explain the
UV and X-ray delays in the outburst stage and that the accretion may occur
through coronal flows in the disk (e.g., rotating accretion disk coronae).
Within a framework of the model of propagating fluctuations the comparison of
the X-ray/UV time lags observed by us in the case of DN systems with those,
detected for a magnetic Intermediate Polar allows us to make a rough estimate
of the viscosity parameter $\alpha\sim0.25$ in the innermost parts of the
accretion flow of DN systems.