The infinitesimal unitary transformation, introduced recently by F.Wegner, to
bring the Hamiltonian to diagonal (or band diagonal) form, is applied to the
Hamiltonian theory as an exact renormalization scheme. We consider QED on the
light front to illustrate the method. The low-energy generated interaction,
induced in the renormalized Hamiltonian to the order \alpha, is shown to be
negative to insure together with instantaneous term and perturbative photon
exchange the bound states for positronium. It is possible to perform the
complete complete elimination of the ee\gamma-vertex in the instant form frame;
this gives rise to the cutoff independent e\bar{e}-interaction governed by
generated and instantaneous terms. The well known result for the
singlet-triplet splitting $7/6 \alpha^2 Ryd$ is recovered in the
nonrelativistic limit as long as $\la << m$.
  We examine the mass and wave function renormalization. The ultraviolet
divergencies, associated with a large transverse momentum, are regularized by
the regulator arising from the unitary transformation. The severe infrared
divergencies are removed if all diagrams to the second order, arising from flow
equations method and normal-ordering Hamiltonian, are taken into account. The
electron (photon) mass in the renormalized Hamiltonian vary with UV cutoff in
accordance with 1-loop renormalization group equations.This indicates to an
intimete connection between Wilson's renormalization and the flow equation
method.
  The advantages of the method in comparison with the naive renormalisation
group approach are discussed.