We study complex networks in which the nodes of the network are tagged with
different colors depending on the functionality of the nodes (colored graphs),
using information theory applied to the distribution of motifs in such
networks. We find that colored motifs can be viewed as the building blocks of
the networks (much more so than the uncolored structural motifs can be) and
that the relative frequency with which these motifs appear in the network can
be used to define the information content of the network. This information is
defined in such a way that a network with random coloration (but keeping the
relative number of nodes with different colors the same) has zero color
information content. Thus, colored motif information captures the
exceptionality of coloring in the motifs that is maintained via selection. We
study the motif information content of the C. elegans brain as well as the
evolution of colored motif information in networks that reflect the interaction
between instructions in genomes of digital life organisms. While we find that
colored motif information appears to capture essential functionality in the C.
elegans brain (where the color assignment of nodes is straightforward) it is
not obvious whether the colored motif information content always increases
during evolution, as would be expected from a measure that captures network
complexity. For a single choice of color assignment of instructions in the
digital life form Avida, we find rather that colored motif information content
increases or decreases during evolution, depending on how the genomes are
organized, and therefore could be an interesting tool to dissect genomic
rearrangements.