Many approaches to transform classification problems from non-linear to
linear by feature transformation have been recently presented in the
literature. These notably include sparse coding methods and deep neural
networks. However, many of these approaches require the repeated application of
a learning process upon the presentation of unseen data input vectors, or else
involve the use of large numbers of parameters and hyper-parameters, which must
be chosen through cross-validation, thus increasing running time dramatically.
In this paper, we propose and experimentally investigate a new approach for the
purpose of overcoming limitations of both kinds. The proposed approach makes
use of a linear auto-associative network (called SCNN) with just one hidden
layer. The combination of this architecture with a specific error function to
be minimized enables one to learn a linear encoder computing a sparse code
which turns out to be as similar as possible to the sparse coding that one
obtains by re-training the neural network. Importantly, the linearity of SCNN
and the choice of the error function allow one to achieve reduced running time
in the learning phase. The proposed architecture is evaluated on the basis of
two standard machine learning tasks. Its performances are compared with those
of recently proposed non-linear auto-associative neural networks. The overall
results suggest that linear encoders can be profitably used to obtain sparse
data representations in the context of machine learning problems, provided that
an appropriate error function is used during the learning phase.