The Bak-Tang-Wiesenfeld (BTW) sandpile process is an archetypal, stylized
model of complex systems with a critical point as an attractor of their
dynamics. This phenomenon, called self-organized criticality (SOC), appears to
occur ubiquitously in both nature and technology. Initially introduced on the
2D lattice, the BTW process has been studied on network structures with great
analytical successes in the estimation of macroscopic quantities, such as the
exponents of asymptotically power-law distributions. In this article, we take a
microscopic perspective and study the inner workings of the process through
both numerical and rigorous analysis. Our simulations reveal fundamental flaws
in the assumptions of past phenomenological models, the same models that
allowed accurate macroscopic predictions; we mathematically justify why
universality may explain these past successes. Next, starting from scratch, we
obtain microscopic understanding that enables mechanistic models; such models
can, for example, distinguish a cascade's area from its size. In the special
case of a 3-regular network, we use self-consistency arguments to obtain a
zero-parameters, mechanistic (bottom-up) approximation that reproduces
nontrivial correlations observed in simulations and that allows the study of
the BTW process on networks in regimes otherwise prohibitively costly to
investigate. We then generalize some of these results to configuration model
networks and explain how one could continue the generalization. The numerous
tools and methods presented herein are known to enable studying the effects of
controlling the BTW process and other self-organizing systems. More broadly,
our use of multitype branching processes to capture information bouncing
back-and-forth in a network could inspire analogous models of systems in which
consequences spread in a bidirectional fashion.