We have obtained exact results for the Ising model on a hierarchical lattice
with a scale-free degree distribution, high clustering coefficient, and
small-world behavior. By varying the probability p of long-range bonds, the
entire spectrum from an unclustered, non-small-world network to a
highly-clustered, small-world system is studied. We obtain analytical
expressions for the degree distribution P(k) and clustering coefficient C for
all p, as well as the average path length l for p=0 and 1. The Ising model on
this network is studied through an exact renormalization-group transformation
of the quenched bond probability distribution, using up to 562,500 probability
bins to represent the distribution. For p < 0.494, we find power-law critical
behavior of the magnetization and susceptibility, with critical exponents
continuously varying with p, and exponential decay of correlations away from
T_c. For p >= 0.494, where the network exhibits small-world character, the
critical behavior radically changes: We find a highly unusual phase transition,
namely an inverted Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless singularity, between a
low-temperature phase with non-zero magnetization and finite correlation length
and a high-temperature phase with zero magnetization and infinite correlation
length. Approaching T_c from below, the magnetization and the susceptibility
respectively exhibit the singularities of exp(-C/sqrt(T_c-T)) and
exp(D/sqrt(T_c-T)), with C and D positive constants. With long-range bond
strengths decaying with distance, we see a phase transition with power-law
critical singularities for all p, an unusually narrow critical region and
important corrections to power-law behavior that depend on the exponent
characterizing the decay of long-range interactions.