Reconstructing transcriptional regulatory networks is an important task in
functional genomics. Data obtained from experiments that perturb genes by
knockouts or RNA interference contain useful information for addressing this
reconstruction problem. However, such data can be limited in size and/or are
expensive to acquire. On the other hand, observational data of the organism in
steady state (e.g. wild-type) are more readily available, but their
informational content is inadequate for the task at hand. We develop a
computational approach to appropriately utilize both data sources for
estimating a regulatory network. The proposed approach is based on a three-step
algorithm to estimate the underlying directed but cyclic network, that uses as
input both perturbation screens and steady state gene expression data. In the
first step, the algorithm determines causal orderings of the genes that are
consistent with the perturbation data, by combining an exhaustive search method
with a fast heuristic that in turn couples a Monte Carlo technique with a fast
search algorithm. In the second step, for each obtained causal ordering, a
regulatory network is estimated using a penalized likelihood based method,
while in the third step a consensus network is constructed from the highest
scored ones. Extensive computational experiments show that the algorithm
performs well in reconstructing the underlying network and clearly outperforms
competing approaches that rely only on a single data source. Further, it is
established that the algorithm produces a consistent estimate of the regulatory
network.