Denial of service (DoS) attacks and more particularly the distributed ones
(DDoS) are one of the latest threat and pose a grave danger to users,
organizations and infrastructures of the Internet. Several schemes have been
proposed on how to detect some of these attacks, but they suffer from a range
of problems, some of them being impractical and others not being effective
against these attacks. This paper reports the design principles and evaluation
results of our proposed framework that autonomously detects and accurately
characterizes a wide range of flooding DDoS attacks in ISP network. Attacks are
detected by the constant monitoring of propagation of abrupt traffic changes
inside ISP network. For this, a newly designed flow-volume based approach
(FVBA) is used to construct profile of the traffic normally seen in the
network, and identify anomalies whenever traffic goes out of profile.
Consideration of varying tolerance factors make proposed detection system
scalable to the varying network conditions and attack loads in real time.
Six-sigma method is used to identify threshold values accurately for malicious
flows characterization. FVBA has been extensively evaluated in a controlled
test-bed environment. Detection thresholds and efficiency is justified using
receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve. For validation, KDD 99, a
publicly available benchmark dataset is used. The results show that our
proposed system gives a drastic improvement in terms of detection and false
alarm rate.