Confining an answer to the question whether and how the coherent operation of
network elements is determined by the the network structure is the topic of our
work. We map the structure of signal flow in directed networks by analysing the
degree of edge convergence and the overlap between the in- and output sets of
an edge. Definitions of convergence degree and overlap are based on the
shortest paths, thus they encapsulate global network properties. Using the
defining notions of convergence degree and overlapping set we clarify the
meaning of network causality and demonstrate the crucial role of chordless
circles. In real-world networks the flow representation distinguishes nodes
according to their signal transmitting, processing and control properties. The
analysis of real-world networks in terms of flow representation was in
accordance with the known functional properties of the network nodes. It is
shown that nodes with different signal processing, transmitting and control
properties are randomly connected at the global scale, while local connectivity
patterns depart from randomness. Grouping network nodes according to their
signal flow properties was unrelated to the network's community structure. We
present evidence that signal flow properties of small-world-like, real-world
networks can not be reconstructed by algorithms used to generate small-world
networks. Convergence degree values were calculated for regular oriented trees,
and its probability density function for networks grown with the preferential
attachment mechanism. For Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi graphs we calculated both the
probability density function of convergence degrees and of overlaps.