An added-mass partitioned (AMP) algorithm is described for solving
fluid-structure interaction (FSI) problems coupling incompressible flows with
thin elastic structures undergoing finite deformations. The new AMP scheme is
fully second-order accurate and stable, without sub-time-step iterations, even
for very light structures when added-mass effects are strong. The fluid,
governed by the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations, is solved in
velocity-pressure form using a fractional-step method; large deformations are
treated with a mixed Eulerian-Lagrangian approach on deforming composite grids.
The motion of the thin structure is governed by a generalized Euler-Bernoulli
beam model, and these equations are solved in a Lagrangian frame using two
approaches, one based on finite differences and the other on finite elements.
Special treatment of the AMP condition is required to couple the finite-element
beam solver with the finite-difference-based fluid solver, and two coupling
approaches are described. A normal-mode stability analysis is performed for a
linearized model problem involving a beam separating two fluid domains, and it
is shown that the AMP scheme is stable independent of the ratio of the mass of
the fluid to that of the structure. A traditional partitioned (TP) scheme using
a Dirichlet-Neumann coupling for the same model problem is shown to be
unconditionally unstable if the added mass of the fluid is too large. A series
of benchmark problems of increasing complexity are considered to illustrate the
behavior of the AMP algorithm, and to compare the behavior with that of the TP
scheme. The results of all these benchmark problems verify the stability and
accuracy of the AMP scheme. Results for one benchmark problem modeling blood
flow in a deforming artery are also compared with corresponding results
available in the literature.