In the last few years, the Internet throughput, usage and reliability have
increased almost exponentially. The introduction of broadband wireless mobile
ad hoc networks (MANETs) and cellular networks together with increased
computational power have opened the door for a new breed of applications to be
created, namely real-time multimedia applications. Delivering real-time
multimedia traffic over a complex network like the Internet is a particularly
challenging task since these applications have strict quality -of-service (QoS)
requirements on bandwidth, delay, and delay jitter. Traditional IP-based best
effort service will not be able to meet these stringent requirements. The
time-varying nature of wireless channels and resource constrained wireless
devices make the problem even more difficult. To improve perceived media
quality by end users over wireless Internet, QoS supports can be addressed in
different layers, including application layer, transport layer and link layer.
Cross layer design is a well-known approach to achieve this adaptation. In
cross-layer design, the challenges from the physical wireless medium and the
QoS-demands from the applications are taken into account so that the rate,
power, and coding at the physical layer can adapted to meet the requirements of
the applications given the current channel and network conditions. A number of
propositions for cross-layer designs exist in the literature. In this paper, an
extensive review has been made on these cross-layer architectures that combine
the application-layer, transport layer and the link layer controls.
Particularly the issues like channel estimation techniques, adaptive controls
at the application and link layers for energy efficiency, priority based
scheduling, transmission rate control at the transport layer, and adaptive
automatic repeat request (ARQ) are discussed in detail.