In recent years evidence has accumulated suggesting that the gas in galaxy
clusters is heated by non-gravitational processes. Here we calculate the
heating rates required to maintain a physically motived mass flow rate, in a
sample of seven galaxy clusters. We employ the spectroscopic mass deposition
rates as an observational input along with temperature and density data for
each cluster. On energetic grounds we find that thermal conduction could
provide the necessary heating for A2199, Perseus, A1795 and A478. However, the
suppression factor, of the clasical Spitzer value, is a different function of
radius for each cluster. Based on the observations of plasma bubbles we also
calculate the duty cycles for each AGN, in the absence of thermal conduction,
which can provide the required energy input. With the exception of Hydra-A it
appears that each of the other AGNs in our sample require duty cycles of
roughly $10^{6}-10^{7}$ yrs to provide their steady-state heating requirements.
If these duty cycles are unrealistic, this may imply that many galaxy clusters
must be heated by very powerful Hydra-A type events interspersed between more
frequent smaller-scale outbursts. The suppression factors for the thermal
conductivity required for combined heating by AGN and thermal conduction are
generally acceptable. However, these suppression factors still require
`fine-tuning` of the thermal conductivity as a function of radius. As a
consequence of this work we present the AGN duty cycle as a cooling flow
diagnostic.