Random coding, along with various standard techniques such as coded
time-sharing, rate-splitting, superposition coding, and binning, are
traditionally used in obtaining achievable rate regions for multi-terminal
networks. The error analysis of such an achievable scheme relies heavily on the
properties of strongly joint typical sequences and on bounds of the cardinality
of typical sets. In this work, we obtain an achievable rate region for a
general (i.e. an arbitrary set of messages shared amongst encoding nodes, which
transmit to arbitrary decoding nodes) memoryless, single-hop, multi-terminal
network without feedback or cooperation by introducing a general framework and
notation, and carefully generalizing the derivation of the error analysis. We
show that this general inner bound may be obtained from a chain graph
representation of the encoding operations. This graph representation captures
the statistical relationship among codewords and allows one to readily obtain
the rate bounds that define the achievable rate region. The proposed graph
representation naturally leads to the derivation of all the achievable schemes
that can be generated by combining classic random coding techniques for any
memoryless network used without feedback or cooperation. We also re-derive a
few achievable regions for classic multi-terminal networks, such as the
multi-access channel, the broadcast channel, and the interference channel, to
show how this new representation allows one to quickly consider the possible
choices of encoding/decoding strategies for any given network and the
distribution of messages among the encoders and decoders.