Multi-tier cellular networks are considered as an effective solution to
enhance the coverage and data rate offered by cellular systems. In a multi-tier
network, high power base stations (BSs) such as macro BSs are overlaid by lower
power small cells such as femtocells and/or picocells. However, co-channel
deployment of multiple tiers of BSs gives rise to the problem of cross-tier
interference that significantly impacts the performance of wireless networks.
Multicell cooperation techniques, such as coordinated multipoint (CoMP)
transmission, have been proposed as a promising solution to mitigate the impact
of the cross-tier interference in multi-tier networks. In this paper, we
propose a novel scheme for Location-Aware Cross-Tier Cooperation (LA-CTC)
between BSs in different tiers for downlink CoMP transmission in two-tier
cellular networks. On one hand, the proposed scheme only uses CoMP transmission
to enhance the performance of the users who suffer from high cross-tier
interference due to the co-channel deployment of small cells such as picocells.
On the other hand, users with good signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio
(${\rm SINR}$) conditions are served directly by a single BS from any of the
two tiers. Thus, the data exchange between the cooperating BSs over the
backhaul network can be reduced when compared to the traditional CoMP
transmission scheme. We use tools from stochastic geometry to quantify the
performance gains obtained by using the proposed scheme in terms of outage
probability, achievable data rate, and load per BS. We compare the performance
of the proposed scheme with that of other schemes in the literature such as the
schemes which use cooperation to serve all users and schemes that use range
expansion to offload users to the small cell tier.