We present results regarding the dynamical meteorology of Jupiter's White
Ovals at different points in their evolution. Starting from the era with three
White Ovals FA, BC, and DE (Galileo), continuing to the post-merger epoch with
only one Oval BA (Cassini), and finally to Oval BA's current reddened state
(New Horizons), we demonstrate that the dynamics of their flow have similarly
evolved along with their appearance. The northern periphery of Oval BA
increased in speed by 20 m/s from Cassini to New Horizons, ending up at a speed
nearly identical to that of the northern periphery of Oval DE during Galileo.
However, the peak speeds along the southern rim of the newly formed Oval BA
were consistently faster than the corresponding speeds in Oval DE, and they
increased still further between Cassini and New Horizons, ending up at ~140 to
150 m/s. The modest strengthening of the winds in Oval BA, the appearance of
red aerosols, and the appearance of a turbulent, cyclonic feature to Oval BA's
northwest create a strong resemblance with the Great Red Spot from both a
dynamical and morphological perspective. In addition to the White Ovals, we
also measure the winds within two compact cyclonic regions, one in the Galileo
data set and one in the Cassini data set. In the images, these cyclonic
features appear turbulent and filamentary, but our wind field reveals that the
flow manifests as a coherent high-speed collar surrounding relatively quiescent
interiors. Although less studied than their anticyclonic cousins, these
cyclones may offer crucial insights into the planet's cloud-level energetics
and dynamical meteorology.