The majority of chemical evolution models assume that the Galactic disk forms
by means of infall of gas and divide the disk into several independent rings
without exchange of matter between them. However, if gas infall is important,
radial gas flows should be taken into account as a dynamical consequence of
infall. The aim of this paper is to test the effect of radial gas flows on
detailed chemical evolution models (one-infall and two-infall) for the Milky
Way disk with different prescriptions for the infall law and star formation
rate. We found, that with a gas radial inflow of constant speed the metallicity
gradient tends to steepen. Taking into account a constant time scale for the
infall rate along the Galaxy disk and radial flows with a constant speed, we
obtained a too flat gradient, at variance with data, implying that an
inside-out formation and/or a variable gas flow speed are required. To
reproduce the observed gradients the gas flow should increase in modulus with
the galactocentric distance, both in the one-infall and two-infall models.
However, the inside-out disk formation coupled with a threshold in the gas
density (only in the two-infall model) for star formation and/or a variable
efficiency of star formation with galactocentric distance can also reproduce
the observed gradients without radial flows. We showed that the radial flows
can be the most important process in reproducing abundance gradients but only
with a variable gas speed. Finally, one should consider that uncertainties in
the data concerning gradients prevent us to draw firm conclusions. Future more
detailed data will help to ascertain whether the radial flows are a necessary
ingredient in the formation and evolution of the Galactic disk and disks in
general.