The elliptic flow excitation function calculated in a full (3+1)d hybrid
Boltzmann approach with an intermediate hydrodynamic stage for heavy ion
reactions from GSI-SIS to the highest CERN-SPS energies is discussed in the
context of the experimental data. In this study, we employ a hadron gas
equation of state to investigate the differences in the dynamics and viscosity
effects. The specific event-by-event setup with initial conditions and
freeze-out from a non-equilibrium transport model allows for a direct
comparison between ideal fluid dynamics and transport simulations. At higher
SPS energies, where the pure transport calculation cannot account for the high
elliptic flow values, the smaller mean free path in the hydrodynamic evolution
leads to higher elliptic flow values. In contrast to previous studies within
pure hydrodynamics, the more realistic initial conditions employed here and the
inclusion of a sequential final state hadronic decoupling provides results that
are in line with the experimental data almost over the whole energy range from
$E_{\rm lab}=2-160A $GeV. Thus, this new approach leads to a substantially
different shape of the $v_2/\epsilon$ scaling curve as a function of $(1/S
dN_{ch}/dy)$ in line with the experimental data compared to previous ideal
hydrodynamic calculations. This hints to a strong influence of the initial
conditions for the hydrodynamic evolution on the finally observed $v_2$ values,
thus questioning the standard interpretation that the hydrodynamic limit is
only reached at RHIC energies.