We consider the fully-developed flow of an incompressible Newtonian fluid in
a cylindrical vessel with elliptical cross-section (both an ellipse and the
annulus between two confocal ellipses). In particular, we address an inverse
problem, namely to compute the velocity field associated with a given,
time-periodic flow rate. This is motivated by the fact that flow rate is the
main physical quantity which can be actually measured in many practical
situations. We propose a novel numerical strategy, which is nonetheless
grounded on several analytical relations. The proposed method leads to the
solution of some simple ordinary differential systems. It holds promise to be
more amenable to implementation than previous approaches, which are
substantially based on the challenging computation of Mathieu functions. Some
numerical results are reported, based on measured data for human blood flow in
the internal carotid artery, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow in the upper
cervical region of the human spine. As expected, computational efficiency is
the main asset of our solution: a speed-up factor over 10^3 was obtained,
compared to more elaborate numerical approaches. The main goal of the present
study is to provide an improved source of initial/boundary data for more
ambitious numerical approaches, as well as a benchmark solution for pulsatile
flows in elliptical sections with given flow rate. The proposed method can be
effectively applied to bio-fluid dynamics investigations (possibly addressing
key aspects of relevant diseases), to biomedical applications (including
targeted drug delivery and energy harvesting for implantable devices), up to
longer-term medical microrobotics applications.