We present the detailed global structure of black hole accretion flows and
outflows through newly performed two-dimensional radiation-magnetohydrodynamic
simulations. By starting from a torus threaded with weak toroidal magnetic
fields and by controlling the central density of the initial torus, rho_0, we
can reproduce three distinct modes of accretion flow. In model A with the
highest central density, an optically and geometrically thick supercritical
accretion disk is created. The radiation force greatly exceeds the gravity
above the disk surface, thereby driving a strong outflow (or jet). Because of
the mild beaming, the apparent (isotropic) photon luminosity is ~22L_E (where
L_E is the Eddington luminosity) in the face-on view. Even higher apparent
luminosity is feasible if we increase the flow density. In model B with a
moderate density, radiative cooling of the accretion flow is so efficient that
a standard-type, cold, and geometrically thin disk is formed at radii greater
than ~7R_S (where R_S is the Schwarzschild radius), while the flow is
radiatively inefficient otherwise. The magnetic-pressure-driven disk wind
appears in this model. In model C the density is too low for the flow to be
radiatively efficient. The flow thus becomes radiatively inefficient accretion
flow, which is geometrically thick and optically thin. The magnetic-pressure
force, in cooperation with the gas-pressure force, drives outflows from the
disk surface, and the flow releases its energy via jets rather than via
radiation. Observational implications are briefly discussed.