We study the variation of surface differential rotation and meridional flow
along the lower part of the zero age main sequence (ZAMS). We first compute a
sequence of stellar models with masses from 0.3 to 1.5 solar masses. We then
construct mean field models of their outer convection zones and compute
differential rotation and meridional flows by solving the Reynolds equation
with transport coefficients from the second order correlation approximation.
For a fixed rotation period of 2.5 d we find a strong dependence of the surface
differential rotation on the effective temperature with weak surface shear for
M dwarfs and very large values for F stars. The increase with effective
temperature is modest below 6000 K but very steep above 6000 K. The meridional
flow shows a similar variation with temperature but the increase with
temperature is not quite so steep. Both the surface rotation and the meridional
circulation are solar-type over the entire temperature range. We also study the
dependence of differential rotation and meridional flow on the rotation period
for masses. from 0.3 to 1.1 solar masses. The variation of the differential
rotation with period is weak except for very rapid rotation. The meridional
flow shows a systematic increase of the flow speed with the rotation rate.
Numerical experiments in which either the $\Lambda$ effect is dropped in the
Reynolds stress or the baroclinic term in the equation of motion is cancelled
show that for effective temperatures below 6000 K the Reynolds stress is the
dominant driver of differential rotation.