We describe how the six planned detectors (2 LIGOs, VIRGO, GEO, AIGO, TAMA)
can be used to perform coincidence experiments for the detection of broadband
signals from either coalescing compact binaries or burst sources. We make
comparisons of the achievable sensitivities of these detectors under different
optical configurations and find that a meaningful coincidence experiment for
the detection of coalescing binary signals can only be performed by a network
where the LIGOs and VIRGO are operated in power recycling mode and other medium
scale detectors are operated in dual recycling mode. For the model of burst
waveform considered by us (i.e. uniform power upto 2000Hz), we find that the
relative sensitivity of the power-recycled VIRGO is quite high as compared to
others with their present design parameters and thus coincidence experiment
performed by including VIRGO in the network would not be a meaningful one. We
also calculate optimized values for the time-delay window sizes for different
possible networks. The effect of filtering on the calculation of thresholds has
also been discussed. We set the thresholds for different detectors and find out
the volume of sky that can be covered by different possible networks and the
corresponding rate of detection of coalescing binaries in the beginning of the
next century. We note that a coincidence experiment of power-recycled LIGOs and
VIRGO and dual-recycled GEO and AIGO can increase the volume of the sky covered
by 3.2 times as compared with only the power-recycled LIGO detectors and by 1.7
times the sky covered by the power-recycled LIGO-VIRGO network. These values
are far less than the range that can be covered by only the LIGO-VIRGO network
with dual recycling operation at a later stage, but the accuracy in the
determination of direction, distance and other source parameters will be much