In this thesis work, a QoS model for real-time interactive traffic on a real
network with constrained bandwidth and real-time traffic has been proposed. The
model supports tight guarantees of QoS to real-time interactive traffic without
over provisioning of bandwidth. A dynamic scheduling model which is adaptive to
input data rate of traffic has been proposed. In this model, A Differentiated
Service (DiffServ) based approach is proposed for QoS provisioning. The packets
are classified and distributed among finite number of queues with limited
buffer based on different priorities and total available bandwidth. The model
proposes a mechanism to derive the weighted service rates and queue length
distribution so as to meet the requirement of low packet loss and delay for
real time interactive traffic in the QoS engineered network. An adaptive
queuing strategy is proposed so that minimum bandwidth in used for real time
traffic. This ensures maximizing availability to best effort traffic. The model
assumes constrained bandwidth without having to over provision the network
resources and thus keeping the cost low. A modified version suitable for
testing on a real network is also presented. Experimental verification of these
in a test bed network in a laboratory as well as on a real network has been
carried out. The results of the QoS provisioning model for different sources of
real-time traffic such as video conferencing equipment, robotic surveillance
camera has also been shown. The thesis also introduces a real-time Variable Bit
Rate (VBR) traffic tuning parameter for controlling the service of VBR traffic
to give better and fair performance to rest of the traffic.