Desynchronization approaches in wireless sensor networks converge to
time-division multiple access (TDMA) of the shared medium without requiring
clock synchronization amongst the wireless sensors, or indeed the presence of a
central (coordinator) node. All such methods are based on the principle of
reactive listening of periodic "fire" or "pulse" broadcasts: each node updates
the time of its fire message broadcasts based on received fire messages from
some of the remaining nodes sharing the given spectrum. In this paper, we
present a novel framework to estimate the required iterations for convergence
to fair TDMA scheduling. Our estimates are fundamentally different from
previous conjectures or bounds found in the literature as, for the first time,
convergence to TDMA is defined in a stochastic sense. Our analytic results
apply to the Desync algorithm and to pulse-coupled oscillator algorithms with
inhibitory coupling. The experimental evaluation via iMote2 TinyOS nodes (based
on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard) as well as via computer simulations demonstrates
that, for the vast majority of settings, our stochastic model is within one
standard deviation from the experimentally-observed convergence iterations. The
proposed estimates are thus shown to characterize the desynchronization
convergence iterations significantly better than existing conjectures or
bounds. Therefore, they contribute towards the analytic understanding of how a
desynchronization-based system is expected to evolve from random initial
conditions to the desynchronized steady state.