The active sites of enzymes consist of residues necessary for catalysis, and
structurally important non-catalytic residues that together maintain the
architecture and function of the active site. Examples of evolutionary
interactions between active site residue have been difficult to define and
experimentally validate due to a general intolerance to substitution. Here,
using computational methods to predict co-evolving residues, we identify a
network of positions consisting of two catalytic metal-binding residues and two
adjacent non- catalytic residues in LAGLIDADG family homing endonucleases
(LHEs). Distinct combinations of residues in the network map to clades of LHE
sub-families, with a striking distribution of the metal-binding Asp (D) and Glu
(E) residues. Mutation of these four positions in two LHEs, I-LtrI and I-OnuI,
indicate that combinations of residues tolerated are specific to each enzyme.
Kinetic analyses under single-turnover conditions indicated a substantial
defect in either the catalytic rate (kcat*) or the Michaelis constant (KM*) for
I- LtrI variants with networks predicted to be suboptimal. Enzymatic activity
could be restored to near wild-type levels with a single compensatory mutation
that recreated a network of optimally predicted residues. Our results
demonstrate that LHE activity is constrained by an evolutionary barrier of
residues with strong context-dependent effects. Creation of optimal co-evolving
active site networks is therefore an important consideration in engineering of
LHEs and other enzymes.