There are several approaches to describe flows with particles e.g.
Lattice-Gas Automata (LGA), Lattice-Boltzmann method (LBM) or smoothed particle
hydrodynamics (SPH). These approaches do not use fixed grids on which the
Navier-Stokes equations are solved via e.g. finite volume method. The flow is
simulated using a multitude of particles or particle density distributions,
which interacts and due to statistical laws and an even more fundamental
approach than the Navier-Stokes equation, the averaged flow variables can be
derived. After a short summary of the most popular particle methods the new
DMPC (Dissipative Multiple Particles Collision) approach will be presented. The
DMPC-model eliminates some of the weak points of the established particle
methods and shows high potential for more accurate CFD solution especially in
areas where standard CFD tools still have problems (e.g. aero-acoustics). The
DMPC-model deals with discrete circular particles and calculates the detailed
collision process (micro scale) of several overlapping particles. With
thermodynamic, statistical and similarity laws global (large scale) flow
variables can be derived. The model is so far 2d and the particles can move in
every direction in the 2d plane depending on the forces acting on it. The
possible overlap between neighbouring particles and multi-particle interactions
are important features of this model. A freeware software is developed and
published under www.cfd2k.eu. There the executable, the user guide and several
exemplary cases can be downloaded.