The neural activity of the human brain is dominated by self-sustained
activities. External sensory stimuli influence this autonomous activity but
they do not drive the brain directly. Most standard artificial neural network
models are however input driven and do not show spontaneous activities.
  It constitutes a challenge to develop organizational principles for
controlled, self-sustained activity in artificial neural networks. Here we
propose and examine the dHAN concept for autonomous associative thought
processes in dense and homogeneous associative networks. An associative
thought-process is characterized, within this approach, by a time-series of
transient attractors. Each transient state corresponds to a stored information,
a memory. The subsequent transient states are characterized by large
associative overlaps, which are identical to acquired patterns. Memory states,
the acquired patterns, have such a dual functionality.
  In this approach the self-sustained neural activity has a central functional
role. The network acquires a discrimination capability, as external stimuli
need to compete with the autonomous activity. Noise in the input is readily
filtered-out.
  Hebbian learning of external patterns occurs coinstantaneous with the ongoing
associative thought process. The autonomous dynamics needs a long-term
working-point optimization which acquires within the dHAN concept a dual
functionality: It stabilizes the time development of the associative thought
process and limits runaway synaptic growth, which generically occurs otherwise
in neural networks with self-induced activities and Hebbian-type learning
rules.