A fundamental difference between fluids and solids is their response to
applied shear. Solids possess static shear moduli, while fluids do not. Complex
fluids such as foams display an intermediate response to shear with nontrivial
frequency-dependent shear moduli. In this manuscript, we conduct coordinated
experiments and numerical simulations of model foams subjected to
boundary-driven oscillatory, planar shear. Our studies are performed on bubble
rafts (experiments) and the bubble model (simulations) in 2D. We focus on the
low-amplitude flow regime in which T1 bubble rearrangement events do not occur,
yet the system transitions from solid- to liquid-like behavior as the driving
frequency is increased. In both simulations and experiments, we observe two
distinct flow regimes. At low frequencies $\omega$, the velocity profile of the
bubbles increases linearly with distance from the stationary wall, and there is
a nonzero total phase shift between the moving boundary and interior bubbles.
In this frequency regime, the total phase shift scales as a power-law $\Delta
\sim \omega^n$ with $n \approx 3$. In contrast, for frequencies above a
crossover frequency $\omega > \omega_{p}$, the total phase shift $\Delta$
scales linearly with the driving frequency. At even higher frequencies above a
characteristic frequency $\omega_{nl} > \omega_{p}$, the velocity profile
changes from linear to nonlinear. We fully characterize this transition from
solid- to liquid-like flow behavior in both the simulations and experiments,
and find qualitative and quantitative agreement for the characteristic
frequencies.