The joint user association and spectrum allocation problem is studied for
multi-tier heterogeneous networks (HetNets) in both downlink and uplink in the
interference-limited regime. Users are associated with base-stations (BSs)
based on the biased downlink received power. Spectrum is either shared or
orthogonally partitioned among the tiers. This paper models the placement of
BSs in different tiers as spatial point processes and adopts stochastic
geometry to derive the theoretical mean proportionally fair utility of the
network based on the coverage rate. By formulating and solving the network
utility maximization problem, the optimal user association bias factors and
spectrum partition ratios are analytically obtained for the multi-tier network.
The resulting analysis reveals that the downlink and uplink user associations
do not have to be symmetric. For uplink under spectrum sharing, if all tiers
have the same target signal-to-interference ratio (SIR), distance-based user
association is shown to be optimal under a variety of path loss and power
control settings. For both downlink and uplink, under orthogonal spectrum
partition, it is shown that the optimal proportion of spectrum allocated to
each tier should match the proportion of users associated with that tier.
Simulations validate the analytical results. Under typical system parameters,
simulation results suggest that spectrum partition performs better for downlink
in terms of utility, while spectrum sharing performs better for uplink with
power control.