Let $\mathbf{x}=(x,y)$. For $\phi(\mathbf{x})=(u(x,y),v(x,y))$ and
$z\in\mathbb{C}$, we put $\phi^{z}=z^{-1}\phi(\mathbf{x}z)$. A two-dimensional
projective flow is a solution to the projective translation equation
$\phi^{z+w}=\phi^{z}\circ\phi^{w}$, $z,w\in\mathbb{C}$. This very specific
dependence of the flow on the time parameter $z$ is what makes projective flows
a separate area of research.
  Let $\phi$ and $\psi$ be two smooth projective flows, and let
$(\varpi,\varrho)$ be a vector field of $\phi$. In this paper we explore when
$\phi\circ\psi$ is a projective flow again. We prove that this happens exactly
when $\phi$ and $\psi$ commute, and this property is intrinsic to projective
flows. From differential geometry it is known that commuting of flows is
equivalent to the vanishing of Lie bracket of corresponding vector fields. All
flows with $y\varpi-x\varrho\equiv 0$ commute. However, if this is not the
case, in a projective flow setting vanishing of Lie bracket is tantamount to a
homogeneous system of two linear first order ODEs, so it has exactly two
linearly independent solutions. And reversely: for any given smooth projective
flow $\phi$, $y\varpi-x\varrho\neq 0$, there exists a projective flow $\psi$
such that all flows which commute with $\phi$ are given by
$\phi^{z}\circ\psi^{w}$, $z,w\in\mathbb{C}$.
  As an application of our previous results and as the main result of this
paper, we classify all commuting pairs $(\phi,\psi)$ of projective flows such
that both of them have rational vector fields. It appears that this necessarily
implies that both of them are algebraic flows.