This paper considers the design of the optimal locationupdate area (LA) of
the distance-based scheme for personal communication service (PCS) networks. We
focus on the optimization of two design parameters associated with the LA: 1)
initial position upon LA update; 2) distance threshold for triggering of LA
update. Based on the popular continuous-time random walk (CTRW) mobility model,
we propose a novel analytical framework that uses a diffusion equation to
minimize the location management cost. In this framework, a number of
measurable physical parameters, such as length of road section, angle between
road sections, and road section crossing time, can be integrated into the
system design. This framework allows us to easily evaluate the total cost under
general call arrival distributions and LA of different shapes. For the
particular case of circular LA and small Poisson call-arrival rate, we prove
the following: (1) When the drift is weak, the optimal initial position
approaches the center of the LA; when the drift is strong, it approaches the
boundary of the LA. (2) Comparing the optimal initial-position and
center-initial-position solutions (which is assumed in most prior work), when
the drift is weak, the optimal distance threshold and the minimum total cost
are roughly equal; when the drift is strong, the optimal distance threshold in
the later is about 1.260 times that in the former, and the minimum total cost
in the later is about 1.587 times that in the former. That is, optimizing on
initial position, which previous work did not consider, has the potential of
reducing the cost measure by 37%.