Using 10 095 galaxies (B < 20 mag) from the Millennium Galaxy Catalogue, we
derive B-band luminosity distributions and selected bivariate brightness
distributions for the galaxy population. All subdivisions extract highly
correlated sub-sets of the galaxy population which consistently point towards
two overlapping distributions. A clear bimodality in the observed distribution
is seen in both the rest-(u-r) colour and log(n) distributions. The rest-(u-r)
colour bimodality becomes more pronounced when using the core colour as opposed
to global colour. The two populations are extremely well separated in the
colour-log(n) plane. Using our sample of 3 314 (B < 19 mag) eyeball classified
galaxies, we show that the bulge-dominated, early-type galaxies populate one
peak and the bulge-less, late-type galaxies occupy the second. The early- and
mid-type spirals sprawl across and between the peaks. This constitutes
extremely strong evidence that the fundamental way to divide the luminous
galaxy population is into bulges and discs and that the galaxy bimodality
reflects the two component nature of galaxies and not two distinct galaxy
classes. We argue that these two-components require two independent formation
mechanisms/processes and advocate early bulge formation through initial
collapse and ongoing disc formation through splashback, infall and
merging/accretion. We calculate the B-band luminosity-densities and
stellar-mass densities within each subdivision and estimate that the z ~ 0
stellar mass content in spheroids, bulges and discs is 35 +/- 2 per cent, 18
+/- 7 and 47 +/- 7 per cent respectively. [Abridged]