We generalize the measurement using an expanded concept of cover, in order to
provide a new approach to size of set other than cardinality. The generalized
measurement has application backgrounds such as a generalized problem in
dimension reduction, and has reasons from the existence of the minimum of both
the positive size and the positive graduation, i.e., both the minimum is the
size of the set ${0}$. The minimum of positive graduation in actual measurement
provides the possibility that an object cannot be partitioned arbitrarily,
e.g., an interval $[0, 1]$ cannot be partitioned by arbitrarily infinite times
to keep compatible with the minimum of positive size. For the measurement on
size of set, it can be assumed that this minimum is the size of ${0}$, in
symbols $|{0}|$ or graduation 1. For a set $S$, we generalize any graduation as
the size of a set $C_i$ where $\exists x \in S (x \in C_i)$, and $|S|$ is
represented by a pair, in symbols $(C, N(C))$, where ${C} = \cup {C_i}$ and
$N(C)$ is a set function on $C_i$, with $C_i$ independent of the order $i$ and
$N(C)$ reflecting the quantity of $C_i$. This pair is a generalized form of
box-counting dimension. The yielded size satisfies the properties of outer
measure in general cases, and satisfies the properties of measure in the case
of graduation 1; while in the reverse view, measure is a size using the
graduation of size of an interval. As for cardinality, the yielded size is a
one-to-one correspondence where only addition is allowable, a weak form of
cardinality, and rewrites Continuum Hypothesis using dimension as $\omega \dot
|{0,1}| = 1$. In the reverse view, cardinality of a set is a size in the
graduation of the set. The generalized measurement provides a unified approach
to dimension, measure, cardinality and hence infinity.