The behavior of photons in the presence of Lorentz and CPT violation is
studied. Allowing for operators of arbitrary mass dimension, we classify all
gauge-invariant Lorentz- and CPT-violating terms in the quadratic Lagrange
density associated with the effective photon propagator. The covariant
dispersion relation is obtained, and conditions for birefringence are
discussed. We provide a complete characterization of the coefficients for
Lorentz violation for all mass dimensions via a decomposition using
spin-weighted spherical harmonics. The resulting nine independent sets of
spherical coefficients control birefringence, dispersion, and anisotropy. We
discuss the restriction of the general theory to various special models,
including among others the minimal Standard-Model Extension, the isotropic
limit, the case of vacuum propagation, the nonbirefringent limit, and the
vacuum-orthogonal model. The transformation of the spherical coefficients for
Lorentz violation between the laboratory frame and the standard Sun-centered
frame is provided. We apply the results to various astrophysical observations
and laboratory experiments. Astrophysical searches of relevance include studies
of birefringence and of dispersion. We use polarimetric and dispersive data
from gamma-ray bursts to set constraints on coefficients for Lorentz violation
involving operators of dimensions four through nine, and we describe the mixing
of polarizations induced by Lorentz and CPT violation in the cosmic-microwave
background. Laboratory searches of interest include cavity experiments. We
present the theory for searches with cavities, derive the experiment-dependent
factors for coefficients in the vacuum-orthogonal model, and predict the
corresponding frequency shift for a circular-cylindrical cavity.