The aim of this paper is to develop a new axiomatization of planar geometry
by reinterpreting the original axioms of Euclid. The basic concept is still
that of a line segment but its equivalent notion of betweenness is viewed as a
topological, not a metric concept. That leads quickly to the notion of
connectedness without any need to dwell on the definition of topology. In our
approach line segments must be connected. Lines and planes are unified via the
concept of separation: lines are separated into two components by each point,
planes contain lines that separate them into two components as well. We add a
subgroup of bijections preserving line segments and establishing unique
isomorphism of basic geometrical sets, and the axiomatic structure is complete.
Of fundamental importance is the Fixed Point Theorem that allows for creation
of the concepts of length and congruency of line segments. The resulting
structure is much more in sync with modern science than other axiomatic
approaches to planar geometry. For instance, it leads naturally to the Erlangen
Program in geometry. Our Conditions of Homogeneity and Rigidity have two
interpretations. In physics, they correspond to the basic tenet that
independent observers should arrive at the same measurement and are related to
boosts in special relativity. In geometry, they mean uniqueness of congruence
for certain geometrical figures.
  Another thread of the paper is the introduction of boundary at infinity, an
important concept of modern mathematics, and linking of Pasch Axiom to endowing
boundaries at infinity with a natural relation of betweenness. That way
spherical geometry can be viewed as geometry of boundaries at infinity.