In join the shortest queue networks, incoming jobs are assigned to the
shortest queue from among a randomly chosen subset of $D$ queues, in a system
of $N$ queues; after completion of service at its queue, a job leaves the
network. We also assume that jobs arrive into the system according to a
rate-$\alpha N$ Poisson process, $\alpha<1$, with rate-1 service at each queue.
When the service at queues is exponentially distributed, it was shown in
Vvedenskaya et al. [Probl. Inf. Transm. 32 (1996) 15-29] that the tail of the
equilibrium queue size decays doubly exponentially in the limit as
$N\rightarrow\infty$. This is a substantial improvement over the case D=1,
where the queue size decays exponentially. The reasoning in [Probl. Inf.
Transm. 32 (1996) 15-29] does not easily generalize to jobs with nonexponential
service time distributions. A modularized program for treating general service
time distributions was introduced in Bramson et al. [In Proc. ACM SIGMETRICS
(2010) 275-286]. The program relies on an ansatz that asserts, in equilibrium,
any fixed number of queues become independent of one another as
$N\rightarrow\infty$. This ansatz was demonstrated in several settings in
Bramson et al. [Queueing Syst. 71 (2012) 247-292], including for networks where
the service discipline is FIFO and the service time distribution has a
decreasing hazard rate. In this article, we investigate the limiting behavior,
as $N\rightarrow \infty$, of the equilibrium at a queue when the service
discipline is FIFO and the service time distribution has a power law with a
given exponent $-\beta$, for $\beta>1$. We show under the above ansatz that, as
$N\rightarrow\infty$, the tail of the equilibrium queue size exhibits a wide
range of behavior depending on the relationship between $\beta$ and $D$. In
particular, if $\beta>D/(D-1)$, the tail is doubly exponential and, if
$\beta<D/(D-1)$, the tail has a power law. When $\beta=D/(D-1)$, the tail is
exponentially distributed.