For oblique anti-plane shear waves in periodic layered elastic composites, it
is shown that negative energy refraction is accompanied by positive
phase-velocity refraction and positive energy refraction is accompanied by
negative phase-velocity refraction, and that, this happens over a broad range
of frequencies. The composite's unit cell may consist of any number of layers
of any variable mass-density and elastic shear modulus (with large
discontinuities).
  Explicit series expressions for displacement, velocity, strain and stress
components, and energy-flux fields are given, and group-velocity vector is
calculated. The approach is based on a mixed variational principle where the
displacement and stress components are viewed as independent fields subject to
arbitrary variation. These fields are hence approximated independently, thereby
ensuring the necessary continuity conditions. The resulting computational
method yields the composite's frequency band structure and the associated mode
shapes, in terms of the wave-vector components for any desired number of
frequency bands.
  The general results are illustrated using a two-phase and a three-phase unit
cell with piecewise constant properties. It is shown that on their second
frequency pass-bands, only the components of the phase and group velocities
normal to the layers are antiparallel, while the components along the layers
are parallel. Therefore, both the two-phase and the three-phase composites
display negative energy refraction with positive phase-velocity refraction and
positive phase-velocity refraction with negative energy refraction, depending
on how the composite is interfaced with a homogeneous solid.
  The presented method is applicable and effective also when some or all of the
layers in a unit cell have spatially varying properties.