According to our approach for resolution of singularities in positive
characteristic (called the Idealistic Filtration Program, alias the I.F.P. for
short) the algorithm is devided into the following two steps: Step 1. Reduction
of the general case to the monomial case. Step 2. Solution in the monomial
case. While we have established Step 1 in arbitrary dimension, Step 2 becomes
very subtle and difficult in positive characteristic. This is in clear contrast
to the classical setting in characteristic zero, where the solution in the
monomial case is quite easy. In dimension 3, we provided an invariant in the
previous paper, inspired by the work of Benito-Villamayor, which establishes
Step 2. In this paper, we propose a new strategy to approach Step 2, and
provide a different invariant in dimension 3 based upon this strategy. The new
invariant increases from time to time (the well-known Moh-Hauser jumping
phoenomena), while it is then shown to eventually decrease. (The analysis of
the jumping phoenomena and eventual decrease is done in the monomial case in
our setting, while the classical analysis by Moh or Hauser is done in a
different setting without any reference to the monomial case. Therefore, even
though we owe most of the ideas to Moh and Hauser, our argument is carried out
logically independent of their papers.) Since the old invariant in our previous
paper strictly decreases after each transformation, this may look like a step
backward rather than forward. However, the construction of the new invariant is
more faithful to the original philosophy of Villamayor, and we believe that the
new strategy has a better fighting chance in higher dimensions.