We develop and test an automated technique to model the dynamics of
interacting galaxy pairs. We use Identikit (Barnes & Hibbard 2009; Barnes 2011)
as a tool for modeling and matching the morphology and kinematics of the
interacting pairs of equal-mass galaxies. In order to reduce the effect of
subjective human judgement, we automate the selection of phase-space regions
used to match simulations to data, and we explore how selection of these
regions affects the random uncertainties of parameters in the best-fit model.
In this work, we used an independent set of GADGET SPH simulations as input
data, to determine the systematic bias in the measured encounter parameters
based on the known initial conditions of these simulations. We tested both cold
gas and young stellar components in the GADGET simulations to explore the
effect of choosing HI vs. H$\alpha$ as the line of sight velocity tracer. We
found that we can group the results into tests with good, fair, and poor
convergence based on the distribution of parameters of models close to the
best-fit model. For tests with good and fair convergence, we rule out large
fractions of parameter space and recovered merger stage, eccentricity, viewing
angle, and pericentric distance within 2$\sigma$ of the correct value. All of
tests on gaseous component of prograde systems have either good or fair
convergence. Retrograde systems and most of tests on young stars do not
converge and may require constraints from regions other than the tidal tails
and bridges.