We describe the main building blocks of a generic automated package for the
calculation of Feynman diagrams. These blocks include the generation and
creation of a model file, the graph generation, the symbolic calculation at an
intermediate level of the Dirac and tensor algebra, implementation of the loop
integrals, the generation of the matrix elements or helicity amplitudes,
methods for the phase space integrations and eventually the event generation.
The report focuses on the fully automated systems for the calculation of
physical processes based on the experience in developing GRACE-loop. As such, a
detailed description of the renormalisation procedure in the Standard Model is
given emphasizing the central role played by the non-linear gauge fixing
conditions for the construction of such automated codes. The need for such
gauges is better appreciated when it comes to devising efficient and powerful
algorithms for the reduction of the tensorial structures of the loop integrals.
A new technique for these reduction algorithms is described. Explicit formulae
for all two-point functions in a generalised non-linear gauge are given,
together with the complete set of counterterms. We also show how infrared
divergences are dealt with in the system. We give a comprehensive presentation
of some systematic test-runs which have been performed at the one-loop level
for a wide variety of two-to-two processes to show the validity of the gauge
check. These cover fermion-fermion scattering, gauge boson scattering into
fermions, gauge bosons and Higgs bosons scattering processes. Comparisons with
existing results on some one-loop computation in the Standard Model show
excellent agreement. We also briefly recount some recent development concerning
the calculation of mutli-leg one-loop corrections.