The real-space power spectrum of L* galaxies measured from the 2dF Galaxy
Redshift Survey (2dFGRS) is presented. Markov-Chain Monte-Carlo (MCMC) sampling
was used to fit radial and angular modes resulting from a Spherical Harmonics
decomposition of the 2dFGRS overdensity field (described in Percival et al.
2004) with 16 real-space power spectrum values and linear redshift-space
distortion parameter \beta(L*,0). The recovered marginalised band-powers are
compared to previous estimates of galaxy power spectra. Additionally, we
provide a simple model for the 17 dimensional likelihood hyper-surface in order
to allow the likelihood to be quickly estimated given a set of model
band-powers and \beta(L*,0). The likelihood surface is not well approximated by
a multi-variate Gaussian distribution with model-independent covariances.
Instead, a model is presented in which the distribution of each band-power has
a Gaussian distribution in a combination of the band-power and its logarithm.
The relative contribution of each component was determined by fitting the MCMC
output. Using these distributions, we demonstrate how the likelihood of a given
cosmological model can be quickly and accurately estimated, and use a simple
set of models to compare estimated likelihoods with likelihoods calculated
using the full Spherical Harmonics procedure. All of the data are made
publically available (from http://www.roe.ac.uk/~wjp/, enabling the Spherical
Harmonics decomposition of the 2dFGRS of Percival et al. (2004) to be easily
used as a cosmological constraint.