The number of asteroids with accurately determined orbits increases fast. The
catalogs of asteroid physical observations have also increased, although the
number of objects is still smaller than in the orbital catalogs. We developed a
new approach to the asteroid family classification by combining the
Hierarchical Clustering Method (HCM) with a method to add new members to
existing families. This procedure makes use of the much larger amount of
information contained in the proper elements catalogs, with respect to
classifications using also physical observations for a smaller number of
asteroids. Our work is based on the large catalog of the high accuracy
synthetic proper elements (available from AstDyS). We first identify a number
of core families; to these we attribute the next layer of smaller objects.
Then, we remove all the family members from the catalog, and reapply the HCM to
the rest. This gives both halo families which extend the core families and new
independent families, consisting mainly of small asteroids. These two cases are
discriminated by another step of attribution of new members and by merging
intersecting families. By using information from absolute magnitudes, we take
advantage of the larger size range in some families to analyze their shape in
the proper semimajor axis vs. inverse diameter plane. This leads to a new
method to estimate the family age (or ages). The results from the previous
steps are then analyzed, using also auxiliary information on physical
properties including WISE albedos and SDSS color indexes. This allows to solve
some difficult cases of families overlapping in the proper elements space but
generated by different collisional events. We analyze some examples of
cratering families (Massalia, Vesta, Eunomia) which show internal structures,
interpreted as multiple collisions. We also discuss why Ceres has no family.