We discuss the extraction of information from detected binary black hole
(BBH) coalescence gravitational waves, focusing on the merger phase that occurs
after the gradual inspiral and before the ringdown. Our results are: (1) If
numerical relativity simulations have not produced template merger waveforms
before BBH detections by LIGO/VIRGO, one can band-pass filter the merger waves.
For BBHs smaller than about 40 solar masses detected via their inspiral waves,
the band pass filtering signal to noise ratio indicates that the merger waves
should typically be just barely visible in the noise for initial and advanced
LIGO interferometers. (2) We derive an optimized (maximum likelihood) method
for extracting a best-fit merger waveform from the noisy detector output; one
"perpendicularly projects" this output onto a function space (specified using
wavelets) that incorporates our prior knowledge of the waveforms. An extension
of the method allows one to extract the BBH's two independent waveforms from
outputs of several interferometers. (3) If numerical relativists produce codes
for generating merger templates but running the codes is too expensive to allow
an extensive survey of the merger parameter space, then a coarse survey of this
parameter space, to determine the ranges of the several key parameters and to
explore several qualitative issues which we describe, would be useful for data
analysis purposes. (4) A complete set of templates could be used to test the
nonlinear dynamics of general relativity and to measure some of the binary
parameters. We estimate the number of bits of information obtainable from the
merger waves (about 10 to 60 for LIGO/VIRGO, up to 200 for LISA), estimate the
information loss due to template numerical errors or sparseness in the template
grid, and infer approximate requirements on template accuracy and spacing.