We explore the connection between two problems that have arisen independently
in the signal processing and related fields: the estimation of the geometric
mean of a set of symmetric positive definite (SPD) matrices and their
approximate joint diagonalization (AJD). Today there is a considerable interest
in estimating the geometric mean of a SPD matrix set in the manifold of SPD
matrices endowed with the Fisher information metric. The resulting mean has
several important invariance properties and has proven very useful in diverse
engineering applications such as biomedical and image data processing. While
for two SPD matrices the mean has an algebraic closed form solution, for a set
of more than two SPD matrices it can only be estimated by iterative algorithms.
However, none of the existing iterative algorithms feature at the same time
fast convergence, low computational complexity per iteration and guarantee of
convergence. For this reason, recently other definitions of geometric mean
based on symmetric divergence measures, such as the Bhattacharyya divergence,
have been considered. The resulting means, although possibly useful in
practice, do not satisfy all desirable invariance properties. In this paper we
consider geometric means of co-variance matrices estimated on high-dimensional
time-series, assuming that the data is generated according to an instantaneous
mixing model, which is very common in signal processing. We show that in these
circumstances we can approximate the Fisher information geometric mean by
employing an efficient AJD algorithm. Our approximation is in general much
closer to the Fisher information geometric mean as compared to its competitors
and verifies many invariance properties. Furthermore, convergence is
guaranteed, the computational complexity is low and the convergence rate is
quadratic. The accuracy of this new geometric mean approximation is
demonstrated by means of simulations.