The magnetic field plays a crucial role in heating the solar corona, but the
exact energy release mechanism(s) is(are) still unknown. Here, we investigate
in detail, the process of magnetic energy release in a situation where two
initially independent flux systems are forced into each other. Work done by the
foot point motions goes in to building a current sheet in which magnetic
reconnection takes place. The scaling relations of the energy input and output
are determined as functions of the driving velocity and the strength of fluxes
in the independent flux systems. In particular, it is found that the energy
injected into the system is proportional to the distance travelled not the rate
of travel. Similarly, the rate of Joule dissipation is related to the distance
travelled. Hence, rapidly driven foot points lead to bright, intense, but
short-lived events, whilst slowly driven foot points produce weaker, but
longer-lived brightenings. Integrated over the lifetime of the events both
would produce the same heating if all other factors were the same. A strong
overlying field has the affect of creating compact flux lobes from the sources.
These appear to lead to a more rapid injection of energy, as well as a more
rapid release of energy. Thus, the stronger the overlying field the more
compact and more intense the heating. This means observers must know the rate
of movement of the magnetic fragments involved in an events, as well as
determine the strength and orientation of the surrounding field to be able to
predict anything about the energy dissipated.