This paper studies a particular sensor network model which involves one
single Gaussian source observed by many sensors, subject to additive
independent Gaussian observation noise. Sensors communicate with the receiver
over an additive Gaussian multiple access channel. The aim of the receiver is
to reconstruct the underlying source with minimum mean squared error. The
scenario of interest here is one where some of the sensors act as adversary
(jammer): they strive to maximize distortion. We show that the ability of
transmitter sensors to secretly agree on a random event, that is
"coordination", plays a key role in the analysis. Depending on the coordination
capability of sensors and the receiver, we consider two problem settings. The
first setting involves transmitters with coordination capabilities in the sense
that all transmitters can use identical realization of randomized encoding for
each transmission. In this case, the optimal strategy for the adversary sensors
also requires coordination, where they all generate the same realization of
independent and identically distributed Gaussian noise. In the second setting,
the transmitter sensors are restricted to use fixed, deterministic encoders and
this setting, which corresponds to a Stackelberg game, does not admit a
saddle-point solution. We show that the the optimal strategy for all sensors is
uncoded communications where encoding functions of adversaries and transmitters
are in opposite directions. For both settings, digital compression and
communication is strictly suboptimal.