We investigate heating and evolution of flare loops in a C4.7 two-ribbon
flare on 2011 February 13. From SDO/AIA imaging observations, we can identify
two sets of loops. Hinode/EIS spectroscopic observations reveal blueshifts at
the feet of both sets of loops. The evolution and dynamics of the two sets are
quite different. The first set of loops exhibits blueshifts for about 25
minutes followed by redshifts, while the second set shows stronger blueshifts,
which are maintained for about one hour. The UV 1600 observation by AIA also
shows that the feet of the second set of loops brighten twice. These suggest
that continuous heating may be present in the second set of loops. We use
spatially resolved UV light curves to infer heating rates in the few tens of
individual loops comprising the two loop systems. With these heating rates, we
then compute plasma evolution in these loops with the "enthalpy-based thermal
evolution of loops" (EBTEL) model. The results show that, for the first set of
loops, the synthetic EUV light curves from the model compare favorably with the
observed light curves in six AIA channels and eight EIS spectral lines, and the
computed mean enthalpy flow velocities also agree with the Doppler shift
measurements by EIS. For the second set of loops modeled with twice-heating,
there are some discrepancies between modeled and observed EUV light curves in
low-temperature bands, and the model does not fully produce the prolonged
blueshift signatures as observed. We discuss possible causes for the
discrepancies.