This paper presents accurate homogeneous positions, velocities and other
pertinent properties for 460 newly discovered and 169 previously known
planetary nebulae (PNe) in the central 25 sq deg bar region of the Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC). Candidate emission sources were discovered using a
deep, high resolution H-alpha map of the LMC obtained by median stacking a
dozen 2 hour H-alpha exposures taken with the UK Schmidt Telescope (UKST). Our
spectroscopic followup of more than 2,000 compact (ie. <20 arcsec) H-alpha
emission candidates uncovered has tripled the number of PNe in this area. All
of the 169 previously known PNe within this region have also been independently
recovered and included in this paper to create a homogeneous data set. Of the
newly discovered PNe, we classify 291 as "true", 54 as "likely" and 115 as
"possible" based on the strength of photometric and spectroscopic evidence.
Radial velocities have been measured using both weighted averaging of emission
lines and cross-correlation techniques against high quality templates. Based on
the median comparison of the two systems, we define a measurement error of pm4
km/s. A new velocity map of the central 25 sq deg of the LMC, based on results
from the combined new and previously known PNe, is presented, indicating an
averaged heliocentric velocity differential of 65 km/s perpendicular to the
line of nodes for the entire PN population across our survey area. Averaged
velocities of our PNe and molecular hydrogen (from the literature) across 37 x
37 arcmin sub areas are compared.