We show that matter yukawa couplings of the New Minimal Supersymmetric
(SO(10)) GUT(NMSGUT) are subject to very significant GUT scale threshold
corrections. Including these threshold effects relaxes the constraint $
y_b-y_\tau\simeq y_s-y_\mu$ operative in $\textbf{10} -\textbf{120} $plet
generated tree level MSSM matter fermion yukawas $y_f$. We find accurate fits
of the MSSM fermion mass-mixing data in terms of NMSGUT superpotential
couplings and 5 independent soft Susy breaking parameters $M_0, M_{1/2}, A_0,
M^2_{H,\bar{H}}$ at $M_X$. The fits generally have elevated unification scale
$M_X$ near $M_{Planck}$, viable values of $\alpha_3(M_Z)$, and are consistent
with current limits on B violation, $b\rightarrow s\gamma$, muon magnetic
moment anomaly and Standard Model $\rho$ parameter. The associated novel and
distinctive soft Susy spectra have light gauginos, a \emph{normal} s-hierarchy
and Bino LSP. The Bino LSP is accompanied by second and first generation right
chiral sfermions light enough to mediate a consistent WIMP dark matter
co-annihilation cosmology and to be discoverable at LHC, while third generation
sfermions are in the LHC undiscoverable range of 3-50 TeV. The fits found
require $|\mu|,|A_0|\sim 100$ TeV which imply both deep CCB/UFB minimae and
stability of the MSSM standard vacuum on cosmological time scales. Our results
indicate that a consistent realistic phenomenology may be specifiable in terms
of SO(10) (NMS)GUT parameters at $M_X$ alone and that a new viable sector of
the soft supersymmetry parameter space may exist if flavour violation
constraints can be satisfied in the 43 dimensional parameter space.