The recently published experimental data on K+Lambda photoproduction by the
SAPHIR, CLAS, and LEPS collaborations are analyzed by means of a multipole
approach. For this purpose the background amplitudes are constructed from
appropriate Feynman diagrams in a gauge-invariant and crossing-symmetric
fashion. The results of our calculation emphasize the lack of mutual
consistency between the SAPHIR and CLAS data previously found by several
independent research groups, whereas the LEPS data are found to be more
consistent with those of CLAS. The use of SAPHIR and CLAS data, individually or
simultaneously, leads to quite different resonance parameters which, therefore,
could lead to different conclusions on ``missing resonances''. Fitting to the
SAPHIR and LEPS data simultaneously indicates that the S_{11}(1650),
P_{13}(1720), D_{13}(1700), D_{13}(2080), F_{15}(1680), and F_{15}(2000)
resonances are required, while fitting to the combination of CLAS and LEPS data
leads alternatively to the P_{13}(1900), D_{13}(2080), D_{15}(1675),
F_{15}(1680), and F_{17}(1990) resonances. Although yielding different results
in most cases, both SAPHIR and CLAS data indicate that the second peak in the
cross sections at W = 1900 MeV originates from the D_{13}(2080) resonance with
a mass between 1911 - 1936 MeV. Furthermore, in contrast to the results of
currently available models and the Table of Particle Properties, both data sets
do not exhibit the need for a P_{11}(1710) resonance. The few data points
available for target asymmetry can not be described by the models proposed in
the present work.