We have investigated the strong gravitational lensing in a rotating squashed
Kaluza-Klein (KK) black hole spacetime. Our result show that the strong
gravitational lensings in the rotating squashed KK black hole spacetime have
some distinct behaviors from those in the backgrounds of the four-dimensional
Kerr black hole and of the squashed KK G\"{o}del black hole. In the rotating
squashed KK black hole spacetime, the marginally circular photon radius
$\rho_{ps}$, the coefficient $\bar{a}$, $\bar{b}$, the deflection angle
$\alpha(\theta)$ in the $\phi$ direction and the corresponding observational
variables are independent of whether the photon goes with or against the
rotation of the background, which is different with those in the usual
four-dimensional Kerr black hole spacetime. Moreover, we also find that with
the increase of the scale of extra dimension $\rho_0$, the marginally circular
photon radius $\rho_{ps}$ and the angular position of the relativistic images
$\theta_\infty$ first decreases and then increases in the rotating squashed KK
black hole for fixed rotation parameter $b$, but in the squashed KK G\"{o}del
black hole they increase for the smaller global rotation parameter $j$ and
decrease for the larger one. In the extremely squashed case $\rho_0=0$, the
coefficient $\bar{a}$ in the rotating squashed KK black hole increases
monotonously with the rotation parameter, but in the squashed KK G\"{o}del
black hole it is a constant and independent of the global rotation of the
G\"{o}del Universe.