Studies of solar and stellar convection often employ simple polytropic setups
using the diffusion approximation instead of solving the proper radiative
transfer equation. This allows one to control separately the polytropic index
of the hydrostatic reference solution, the temperature contrast between top and
bottom, and the Rayleigh and Peclet numbers. We extend such studies by
including radiative transfer in the gray approximation using a Kramers-like
opacity with freely adjustable coefficients. We study the properties of such
models and compare them with results from the diffusion approximation. We use
the Pencil Code, which is a high-order finite difference code where radiation
is treated using the method of long characteristics. The source function is
given by the Planck function. The opacity is written as kappa=kappa_0 rho^a
T^b, where b is varied from -3.5 to +5, and kappa_0 is varied by four orders of
magnitude. We consider sets of one dimensional models and perform a comparison
with the diffusion approximation. Except for the case where b=5, we find
one-dimensional hydrostatic equilibria with a nearly polytropic stratification
and a polytropic index close to n=(3-b)/(1+a), covering both convectively
stable (n>3/2) and unstable (n<3/2) cases. For b=3 and a=-1, the value of n is
undefined a priori and the actual value of $n$ depends then on the depth of the
domain. For large values of $\kappa_0$, the thermal adjustment time becomes
long, the Peclet and Rayleigh numbers become large, and the temperature
contrast increases and is thus no longer an independent input parameter, unless
the Stefan Boltzmann constant is considered adjustable. Proper radiative
transfer with Kramers-like opacities provides a useful tool for studying
stratified layers with a radiative surface in ways that are more physical than
what is possible with polytropic models using the diffusion approximation.