Independent component analysis (ICA) is a powerful computational tool for
separating independent source signals from their linear mixtures. ICA has been
widely applied in neuroimaging studies to identify and characterize underlying
brain functional networks. An important goal in such studies is to assess the
effects of subjects' clinical and demographic covariates on the spatial
distributions of the functional networks. Currently, covariate effects are not
incorporated in existing group ICA decomposition methods. Hence, they can only
be evaluated through ad-hoc approaches which may not be accurate in many cases.
In this paper, we propose a hierarchical covariate ICA model that provides a
formal statistical framework for estimating and testing covariate effects in
ICA decomposition. A maximum likelihood method is proposed for estimating the
covariate ICA model. We develop two expectation-maximization (EM) algorithms to
obtain maximum likelihood estimates. The first is an exact EM algorithm, which
has analytically tractable E-step and M-step. Additionally, we propose a
subspace-based approximate EM, which can significantly reduce computational
time while still retain high model-fitting accuracy. Furthermore, to test
covariate effects on the functional networks, we develop a voxel-wise
approximate inference procedure which eliminates the needs of computationally
expensive covariance estimation. The performance of the proposed methods is
evaluated via simulation studies. The application is illustrated through an
fMRI study of Zen meditation.