The induced-activity investigations in off-line analysis performed in
different experiments, concerning pre-actinide and actinide nuclei, are here
presented and discussed. Generalized expressions for the determination of
independent yields/cross sections of radioactive nuclei, formed in the targets,
are derived and analysed. The fragment mass distribution from U-238, Th-232 and
Ta-181 photofission at the bremsstrahlung end-point energies of 50 and 3500
MeV, and from Am-241, U-238 and Np-237 fission induced by 660-MeV protons, are
scrutinized from the point of view of the multimodal fission approach. The
results of these studies are hence compared with theoretical model calculations
using the CRISP code. We subsequently discuss the complex particle-induced
reaction, such as heavy-ions and deuterons, by using the thick-target
thick-catcher technique and the two-step vector model framework as well. This
is accomplished in order to present the investigation of the main processes
(fission, spallation and (multi)fragmentation) in intermediate- and high-energy
ranges of the incident particle. The set of experimental data, presented in
this work, encompasses not merely the data as total production cross sections.
Notwithstanding, it further covers other data, as individual yields/cross
sections, charge, mass and spin distributions of the reaction fragments, as
well as kinematic features. These sources of experimental data can serve as a
consistent set of benchmarking data, still necessary for the study of heavy
nuclei. Besides, it is also useful for technological applications, from
astrophysics and environmental sciences to accelerator technology and
accelerator-based nuclear waste transmutation and energy amplification as well.