We summarize the analysis of a uniform set of both previously-known and
newly-discovered scattered-light echoes, detected within 30" of SN 1987A in ten
years of optical imaging, and with which we have constructed the most complete
three-dimensional model of the progenitor's circumstellar environment.
Surrounding the SN is a richly-structured bipolar nebula. An outer,
double-lobed ``peanut,'' which we believe is the contact discontinuity between
the red supergiant and main sequence winds, is a prolate shell extending 28 ly
along the poles and 11 ly near the equator. Napoleon's Hat, previously believed
to be an independent structure, is the waist of this peanut, which is pinched
to a radius of 6 ly. Interior, the innermost circumstellar material lies along
a cylindrical hourglass, 1 ly in radius and 4 ly long, which connects to the
peanut by a thick equatorial disk. The nebulae are inclined 41o south and 8o
east of the line of sight, slightly elliptical in cross section, and marginally
offset west of the SN. The 3-D geometry of the three circumstellar rings is
studied, suggesting the equatorial ring is elliptical (b/a<0.98), and spatially
offset in the same direction as the hourglass. Dust-scattering models suggest
that between the hourglass and bipolar lobes: the gas density drops from 1--3
cm^{-3} to >0.03 cm^{-3}; the maximum dust-grain size increases from ~0.2
micron to 2 micron; and the Si:C dust ratio decreases. The nebulae have a total
mass of ~1.7 Msun, yielding a red-supergiant mass loss around 5*10^{-6} Msun
yr^{-1}.