We present an improved numerical relativity (NR) calibration of the new
effective-one-body (EOB) model for coalescing non precessing spinning black
hole binaries recently introduced by Damour and Nagar [Physical Review D 90,
044018 (2014)]. We do so by comparing the EOB predictions to both the phasing
and the energetics provided by two independent sets of NR data covering mass
ratios $1\leq q \leq 8$ and dimensionless spin range $-0.95\leq \chi\leq
+0.98$. One set of data is a subset of the Simulating eXtreme Spacetimes (SXS)
catalog of public waveforms; the other set consists of new simulations obtained
with the Llama code plus Cauchy Characteristic Evolution. We present the first
systematic computation of the gauge-invariant relation between the binding
energy and the total angular momentum, $E_{b}(j)$, for a large sample of,
spin-aligned, SXS and Llama data. The EOB model presented here has only two
calibration parameters, one entering the non spinning sector, as a 5PN
effective correction to the interaction potential, and one in the spinning
sector, as an effective next-to-next-to-next-to-leading order correction to the
spin-orbit coupling. These parameters are determined by comparing the EOB
phasing with the SXS phasing, the consistency of the energetics being checked
afterwards. The quality of the analytical model for gravitational wave data
analysis purposes is assessed by computing the EOB/NR faithfulness, that is
found to range, over the NR data sample, between $99\%$ and $99.99\%$ with a
median value $99.865\%$.