Barndorff-Nielsen and Cox (1994, p.319) modify an estimative prediction limit
to obtain an improved prediction limit with better coverage properties. Kabaila
and Syuhada (2008) present a simulation-based approximation to this improved
prediction limit, which avoids the extensive algebraic manipulations required
for this modification. We present a modification of an estimative prediction
interval, analogous to the Barndorff-Nielsen and Cox modification, to obtain an
improved prediction interval with better coverage properties. We also present
an analogue, for the prediction interval context, of this simulation-based
approximation. The parameter estimator on which the estimative and improved
prediction limits and intervals are based is assumed to have the same
asymptotic distribution as the (conditional) maximum likelihood estimator. The
improved prediction limit and interval depend on the asymptotic conditional
bias of this estimator. This bias can be very sensitive to very small changes
in the estimator. It may require considerable effort to find this bias. We
show, however, that the improved prediction limit and interval have asymptotic
efficiencies that are functionally independent of this bias. Thus, improved
prediction limits and intervals obtained using the Barndorff-Nielsen and Cox
type of methodology can conveniently be based on the (conditional) maximum
likelihood estimator, whose asymptotic conditional bias is given by the formula
of Vidoni (2004, p.144). Also, improved prediction limits and intervals
obtained using Kabaila and Syuhada type approximations have asymptotic
efficiencies that are independent of the estimator on which these intervals are
based.