Gene-gene interactions are often regarded as playing significant roles in
influencing variabilities of complex traits. Although much research has been
devoted to this area, till date a comprehensive statistical model that
adequately addresses the highly dependent structures associated with the
interactions between the genes, multiple loci of every gene, various and
unknown number of sub-populations that the subjects arise from, seem to be
lacking. In this paper, we propose and develop a novel Bayesian semiparametric
approach composed of finite mixtures based on Dirichlet processes and a
hierarchical matrix-normal distribution that can comprehensively account for
the unknown number of sub-populations and gene-gene interactions. Then, by
formulating novel, and suitable Bayesian tests of hypotheses using a suitable
metric for comparing clusterings in conjunction with the interaction parameters
of the matrix-normal, we attempt to single out the roles of the genes,
individually, and in interaction with other genes, in case-control studies.
Quite importantly, we also attempt to identify the disease producing loci.
Since the mixtures are conditionally independent of each other given the
interaction structure, for model fitting we update them simultaneously in
parallel processors using an efficient Gibbs sampling procedure. Given the
updated mixture parameters the interaction parameters are then updated in a
single block using the recently developed fast and efficient Transformation
based MCMC (TMCMC) methodology. Thus, our model facilitates a highly efficient
parallel computing methodology.Application of our model and methodologies to
biologically realistic data sets simulated from an existing, realistic
population genetics model associated with case-control study, revealed quite
encouraging performance.