We study the ideals of the partition, Brauer, and Jones monoids, establishing
various combinatorial results on generating sets and idempotent generating sets
via an analysis of their Graham-Houghton graphs. We show that each proper ideal
of the partition monoid P_n is an idempotent generated semigroup, and obtain a
formula for the minimal number of elements (and the minimal number of
idempotent elements) needed to generate these semigroups. In particular, we
show that these two numbers, which are called the rank and idempotent rank
(respectively) of the semigroup, are equal to each other, and we characterize
the generating sets of this minimal cardinality. We also characterize and
enumerate the minimal idempotent generating sets for the largest proper ideal
of P_n, which coincides with the singular part of P_n. Analogous results are
proved for the ideals of the Brauer and Jones monoids; in each case, the rank
and idempotent rank turn out to be equal, and all the minimal generating sets
are described. We also show how the rank and idempotent rank results obtained,
when applied to the corresponding twisted semigroup algebras (the partition,
Brauer, and Temperley-Lieb algebras), allow one to recover formulas for the
dimensions of their cell modules (viewed as cellular algebras) which, in the
semisimple case, are formulas for the dimensions of the irreducible
representations of the algebras. As well as being of algebraic interest, our
results relate to several well-studied topics in graph theory including the
problem of counting perfect matchings (which relates to the problem of
computing permanents of {0,1}-matrices and the theory of Pfaffian
orientations), and the problem of finding factorizations of Johnson graphs. Our
results also bring together several well-known number sequences such as
Stirling, Bell, Catalan and Fibonacci numbers.