We efficiently solve the optimal multi-dimensional mechanism design problem
for independent bidders with arbitrary demand constraints when either the
number of bidders is a constant or the number of items is a constant. In the
first setting, we need that each bidder's values for the items are sampled from
a possibly correlated, item-symmetric distribution, allowing different
distributions for each bidder. In the second setting, we allow the values of
each bidder for the items to be arbitrarily correlated, but assume that the
distribution of bidder types is bidder-symmetric.
  For all eps>0, we obtain an additive eps-approximation, when the value
distributions are bounded, or a multiplicative (1-eps)-approximation when the
value distributions are unbounded, but satisfy the Monotone Hazard Rate
condition, covering a widely studied class of distributions in Economics. Our
runtime is polynomial in max{#items,#bidders}, and not the size of the support
of the joint distribution of all bidders' values for all items, which is
typically exponential in both the number of items and the number of bidders.
Our mechanisms are randomized, explicitly price bundles, and can sometimes
accommodate budget constraints.
  Our results are enabled by establishing several new tools and structural
properties of Bayesian mechanisms. We provide a symmetrization technique
turning any truthful mechanism into one that has the same revenue and respects
all symmetries in the underlying value distributions. We also prove that
item-symmetric mechanisms satisfy a natural monotonicity property which, unlike
cyclic-monotonicity, can be harnessed algorithmically. Finally, we provide a
technique that turns any given eps-BIC mechanism (i.e. one where incentive
constraints are violated by eps) into a truly-BIC mechanism at the cost of
O(sqrt{eps}) revenue. We expect our tools to be used beyond the settings we
consider here.