Introduction The focus of analyzing data from microarray experiments and
extracting biological insight from such data has experienced a shift from
identification of individual genes in association with a phenotype to that of
biological pathways or gene sets. Meanwhile, feature selection algorithm
becomes imperative to cope with the high dimensional nature of many modeling
tasks in bioinformatics. Many feature selection algorithms use information
contained within a gene set as a biological priori, and select relevant
features by incorporating such information. Thus, an integration of gene set
analysis with feature selection is highly desired. Significance analysis of
microarray to gene-set reduction analysis (SAM-GSR) algorithm is a novel
direction of gene set analysis, aiming at further reduction of gene set into a
core subset. Here, we explore the feature selection trait possessed by SAM-GSR
and then modify SAM-GSR specifically to better fulfill this role. Results and
Conclusions Training on a multiple sclerosis (MS) microarray data using both
SAM-GSR and our modification of SAM-GSR, excellent discriminative performance
on an independent test set was achieved. To conclude, absorbing biological
information from a gene set may be helpful for classification and feature
selection. Discussion Given the fact the complete pathway information is far
from completeness, a statistical method capable of constructing biologically
meaningful gene networks is in demand. The basic requirement is that interplay
among genes must be taken into account.