Detailed knowledge of the primordial power spectrum of curvature
perturbations is essential both in order to elucidate the physical mechanism
(`inflation') which generated it, and for estimating the cosmological
parameters from observations of the cosmic microwave background and large-scale
structure. Hence it ought to be extracted from such data in a model-independent
manner, however this is difficult because relevant cosmological observables are
given by a convolution of the primordial perturbations with some smoothing
kernel which depends on both the assumed world model and the matter content of
the universe. Moreover the deconvolution problem is ill-conditioned so a
regularisation scheme must be employed to control error propagation. We
demonstrate that `Tikhonov regularisation' can robustly reconstruct the
primordial spectrum from multiple cosmological data sets, a significant
advantage being that both its uncertainty and resolution are then quantified.
Using Monte Carlo simulations we investigate several regularisation parameter
selection methods and find that generalised cross-validation and Mallow's $C_p$
method give optimal results. We apply our inversion procedure to data from the
Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, other ground-based small angular scale
CMB experiments, and the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. The reconstructed spectrum
(assuming the standard $\Lambda$CDM cosmology) is \emph{not} scale-free but has
an infrared cutoff at $k \lesssim 5 \times 10^{-4}\; \mathrm{Mpc}^{-1}$ (due to
the anomalously low CMB quadrupole) and several features with $\sim 2 \sigma$
significance at $k/\mathrm{Mpc}^{-1} \sim$ 0.0013--0.0025, 0.0362--0.0402 and
0.051--0.056, reflecting the `WMAP glitches'. To test whether these are indeed
real will require more accurate data, such as from the Planck satellite and new
ground-based experiments.