We consider multi-state capture-recapture-recovery data where observed
individuals are recorded in a set of possible discrete states. Traditionally,
the Arnason-Schwarz model has been fitted to such data where the state process
is modeled as a first-order Markov chain, though second-order models have also
been proposed and fitted to data. However, low-order Markov models may not
accurately represent the underlying biology. For example, specifying a
(time-independent) first-order Markov process assumes that the dwell time in
each state (i.e., the duration of a stay in a given state) has a geometric
distribution, and hence that the modal dwell time is one. Specifying
time-dependent or higher-order processes provides additional flexibility, but
at the expense of a potentially significant number of additional model
parameters. We extend the Arnason-Schwarz model by specifying a semi-Markov
model for the state process, where the dwell-time distribution is specified
more generally, using for example a shifted Poisson or negative binomial
distribution. A state expansion technique is applied in order to represent the
resulting semi-Markov Arnason-Schwarz model in terms of a simpler and
computationally tractable hidden Markov model. Semi-Markov Arnason-Schwarz
models come with only a very modest increase in the number of parameters, yet
permit a significantly more flexible state process. Model selection can be
performed using standard procedures, and in particular via the use of
information criteria. The semi-Markov approach allows for important biological
inference to be drawn on the underlying state process, for example on the times
spent in the different states. The feasibility of the approach is demonstrated
in a simulation study, before being applied to real data corresponding to house
finches where the states correspond to the presence or absence of
conjunctivitis.