We have performed r-process simulations for a set of trajectories describing
matter ejected in neutron star mergers. Our calculations consider an extended
nuclear network, including spontaneous, $\beta$- and neutron-induced fission
and adopting fission yield distributions from the ABLA code. In particular we
have studied the sensitivity of the r-process abundances on the nuclear mass
models by using different models. We find that the general features of the
observed r-process abundance distribution (the second and third peaks, the
rare-earth peak and the lead peak) are reproduced by our simulations,
independently of the merger trajectory, and for all mass models. We find
distinct differences in the predictions of the mass models at and just above
the third peak, which can be traced back to different predictions of neutron
separation energies for r-process nuclei around neutron number N=130. In all
simulations, we find that the second peak around $A\sim 130$ is produced by the
fission yields of the material that piles up in nuclei with $A\gtrsim 250$ due
to the substantially longer beta-decay half-lives found in this region. The
third peak around $A \sim 195$ is generated in a competition between neutron
captures and $\beta$ decays during r-process freeze-out. We find that at
timescales of weeks relevant for kilonova light curve calculations, the
abundance of actinides is larger than the one of lanthanides. This means that
actinides can be even more important than lanthanides to determine the photon
opacities under kilonova conditions.