Antithetic coupling is a general stratification strategy for reducing Monte
Carlo variance without increasing the simulation size. The use of the
antithetic principle in the Monte Carlo literature typically employs two strata
via antithetic quantile coupling. We demonstrate here that further
stratification, obtained by using k>2 (e.g., k=3-10) antithetically coupled
variates, can offer substantial additional gain in Monte Carlo efficiency, in
terms of both variance and bias. The reason for reduced bias is that
antithetically coupled chains can provide a more dispersed search of the state
space than multiple independent chains. The emerging area of perfect simulation
provides a perfect setting for implementing the k-process parallel antithetic
coupling for MCMC because, without antithetic coupling, this class of methods
delivers genuine independent draws. Furthermore, antithetic backward coupling
provides a very convenient theoretical tool for investigating antithetic
forward coupling. However, the generation of k>2 antithetic variates that are
negatively associated, that is, they preserve negative correlation under
monotone transformations, and extremely antithetic, that is, they are as
negatively correlated as possible, is more complicated compared to the case
with k=2. In this paper, we establish a theoretical framework for investigating
such issues. Among the generating methods that we compare, Latin hypercube
sampling and its iterative extension appear to be general-purpose choices,
making another direct link between Monte Carlo and quasi Monte Carlo.