A binding potential of mean force (BPMF) is a free energy of noncovalent
association in which one binding partner is flexible and the other is rigid. I
have developed a method to calculate BPMFs for protein-ligand systems. The
method is based on replica exchange sampling from multiple thermodynamic states
at different temperatures and protein-ligand interaction strengths.
Protein-ligand interactions are represented by interpolating precomputed
electrostatic and van der Waals grids. Using a simple estimator for
thermodynamic length, thermodynamic states are initialized at approximately
equal intervals. The method is demonstrated on the Astex diverse set, a
database of 85 protein-ligand complexes relevant to pharmacy or agriculture.
Fifteen independent simulations of each complex were started using poses from
crystallography, docking, or the lowest-energy pose observed in the other
simulations. Benchmark simulations completed within three days on a single
processor. Overall, protocols initialized using the thermodynamic length
estimator were system-specific, robust, and led to approximately even replica
exchange acceptance probabilities between neighboring states. In most systems,
the standard deviation of the BPMF converges to within 5 kT. Even with low
variance, however, the mean BPMF was sometimes dependent on starting
conditions, implying inadequate sampling. Within the thermodynamic cycle, free
energies estimated based on multiple intermediate states were more precise, and
those estimated by single-step perturbation were less precise. The results
demonstrate that the method is promising, but that ligand pose sampling and
phase space overlap can sometimes prevent precise BPMF estimation. The software
used to perform these calculations, Alchemical Grid Dock (AlGDock), is
available under the open-source MIT license at
https://github.com/ccbatiit/algdock/.