Given a distribution $X$, any correlated information $Z$ can be represented
as a randomized function of $X$. However, it might be \emph{extremely
inefficient} when: (a) it involves a lot of computations or (b) a huge amount
of auxiliary randomness is required. We study this problem in the computational
setting, where \emph{efficiently simulating} $Z$ from $X$ becomes possible, if
we accept some mistakes and care only about a restricted class of adversaries.
We prove the following result: for any $X\in\{0,1\}^n$, any correlated
$Z\in\{0,1\}^\ell$ and every choice of $(\epsilon,s)$ there is a randomized
$h:\{0,1\}^n\rightarrow \{0,1\}^\ell$ of complexity $O(s\cdot
2^{2\ell}\epsilon^{-2})$ such that $Z$ and $h{X}$ are
$(\epsilon,s)$-indistinguishable given $X$. This is better than in the original
proof of Pietrzak and Jetchev (TCC'14) and much better for some practically
interesting settings than the alternative bound due to Vadhan and Zheng
(CRYPTO'13). Our approach is also simpler and modular (the standard min-max
theorem combined with an $L_2$-approximation argument). As an application we
give a better security analysis for the leakage-resilient stream cipher from
EUROCRYPT'09, increasing (at any security level) the maximal leakage length by
$33\%$. As a contribution of independent interests, we provide a clear analysis
of the provable security for the best known proof technique of this
construction. In particular we show that, contrarily to what have been
suggested, the key space of AES is not enough for this construction and one
needs a weak PRF with 512 bits of security, for example a weak PRF instantiated
with SHA512. Interestingly, we discover limitations for regularity theorems of
Vadhan and Zheng: in this setting they do not provide recommended security
contrarily to our approach based on the standard min-max theorem (in general,
our security level is up to $50\%$ higher).