We propose to use the MT2 concept to measure the masses of all particles in
SUSY-like events with two unobservable, identical particles. To this end we
generalize the usual notion of MT2 and define a new MT2(n,p,c) variable, which
can be applied to various subsystem topologies, as well as the full event
topology. We derive analytic formulas for its endpoint MT2{max}(n,p,c) as a
function of the unknown test mass Mc of the final particle in the subchain and
the transverse momentum pT due to radiation from the initial state. We show
that the endpoint functions MT2{max}(n,p,c)(Mc,pT) may exhibit three different
types of kinks and discuss the origin of each type. We prove that the subsystem
MT2(n,p,c) variables by themselves already yield a sufficient number of
measurements for a complete determination of the mass spectrum (including the
overall mass scale). As an illustration, we consider the simple case of a decay
chain with up to three heavy particles, X2 -> X1 -> X0, which is rather
problematic for all other mass measurement methods. We propose three different
MT2-based methods, each of which allows a complete determination of the masses
of particles X0, X1 and X2. The first method only uses MT2(n,p,c) endpoint
measurements at a single fixed value of the test mass Mc. In the second method
the unknown mass spectrum is fitted to one or more endpoint functions
MT2{max}(n,p,c)(Mc,pT) exhibiting a kink. The third method is hybrid, combining
MT2 endpoints with measurements of kinematic edges in invariant mass
distributions. As a practical application of our methods, we show that the
dilepton W+W- and tt-bar samples at the Tevatron can be used for an independent
determination of the masses of the top quark, the W boson and the neutrino,
without any prior assumptions.