We use measurements from the South Pole Telescope (SPT) Sunyaev Zel'dovich
(SZ) cluster survey in combination with X-ray measurements to constrain
cosmological parameters. We present a statistical method that fits for the
scaling relations of the SZ and X-ray cluster observables with mass while
jointly fitting for cosmology. The method is generalizable to multiple cluster
observables, and self-consistently accounts for the effects of the cluster
selection and uncertainties in cluster mass calibration on the derived
cosmological constraints. We apply this method to a data set consisting of an
SZ-selected catalog of 18 galaxy clusters at z > 0.3 from the first 178 deg2 of
the 2500 deg2 SPT-SZ survey, with 14 clusters having X-ray observations from
either Chandra or XMM. Assuming a spatially flat LCDM cosmological model, we
find the SPT cluster sample constrain sigma_8 (Omega_m/0.25)^0.30 = 0.785 +-
0.037. In combination with measurements of the CMB power spectrum from the SPT
and the seven-year WMAP data, the SPT cluster sample constrain sigma_8 = 0.795
+- 0.016 and Omega_m = 0.255 +- 0.016, a factor of 1.5 improvement on each
parameter over the CMB data alone. We consider several extensions beyond the
LCDM model by including the following as free parameters: the dark energy
equation of state (w), the sum of the neutrino masses (sum mnu), the effective
number of relativistic species (Neff), and a primordial non-Gaussianity (fNL).
We find that adding the SPT cluster data significantly improves the constraints
on w and sum mnu beyond those found when using measurements of the CMB,
supernovae, baryon acoustic oscillations, and the Hubble constant. Considering
each extension independently, we best constrain w=-0.973 +- 0.063 and the sum
of neutrino masses sum mnu < 0.28 eV at 95% confidence, a factor of 1.25 and
1.4 improvement, respectively, over the constraints without clusters. [abbrev.]