With the current host-based Internet architecture, networking faces
limitations in dynamic scenarios, due mostly to host mobility. The ICN paradigm
mitigates such problems by releasing the need to have an end-to-end transport
session established during the life time of the data transfer. Moreover, the
ICN concept solves the mismatch between the Internet architecture and the way
users would like to use it: currently a user needs to know the topological
location of the hosts involved in the communication when he/she just wants to
get the data, independently of its location. Most of the research efforts aim
to come up with a stable ICN architecture in fixed networks, with few examples
in ad-hoc and vehicular networks. However, the Internet is becoming more
pervasive with powerful personal mobile devices that allow users to form
dynamic networks in which content may be exchanged at all times and with low
cost. Such pervasive wireless networks suffer with different levels of
disruption given user mobility, physical obstacles, lack of cooperation,
intermittent connectivity, among others. This paper discusses the combination
of content knowledge (e.g., type and interested parties) and social awareness
within opportunistic networking as to drive the deployment of ICN solutions in
disruptive networking scenarios. With this goal in mind, we go over few
examples of social-aware content-based opportunistic networking proposals that
consider social awareness to allow content dissemination independently of the
level of network disruption. To show how much content knowledge can improve
social-based solutions, we illustrate by means of simulation some
content-oblivious/oriented proposals in scenarios based on synthetic mobility
patterns and real human traces.