Fronts that start from a local perturbation and propagate into a linearly
unstable state come in two classes: pulled and pushed. ``Pulled'' fronts are
``pulled along'' by the spreading of linear perturbations about the unstable
state, so their asymptotic speed $v^*$ equals the spreading speed of linear
perturbations of the unstable state. The central result of this paper is that
the velocity of pulled fronts converges universally for time $t\to\infty$ like
$v(t)=v^*-3/(2\lambda^*t) + (3\sqrt{\pi}/2)
D\lambda^*/(D{\lambda^*}^2t)^{3/2}+O(1/t^2)$. The parameters $v^*$,
$\lambda^*$, and $D$ are determined through a saddle point analysis from the
equation of motion linearized about the unstable invaded state. The interior of
the front is essentially slaved to the leading edge, and we derive a simple,
explicit and universal expression for its relaxation towards
$\phi(x,t)=\Phi^*(x-v^*t)$. Our result, which can be viewed as a general center
manifold result for pulled front propagation, is derived in detail for the well
known nonlinear F-KPP diffusion equation, and extended to much more general
(sets of) equations (p.d.e.'s, difference equations, integro-differential
equations etc.). Our universal result for pulled fronts thus implies
independence (i) of the level curve which is used to track the front position,
(ii) of the precise nonlinearities, (iii) of the precise form of the linear
operators, and (iv) of the precise initial conditions. Our simulations confirm
all our analytical predictions in every detail. A consequence of the slow
algebraic relaxation is the breakdown of various perturbative schemes due to
the absence of adiabatic decoupling.