In gauge-mediated supersymmetry (SUSY) breaking (GMSB) models the lightest
supersymmetric particle (LSP) is the gravitino and the phenomenology is driven
by the nature of the next-to-lightest SUSY particle (NLSP) which is either the
lightest neutralino, the stau or mass degenerate sleptons. Since the NLSP decay
length is effectively unconstrained, searches for all possible lifetime and
NLSP topologies predicted by GMSB models in e+e- collisions are performed on
the data sample collected by OPAL at centre-of-mass energies up to 209 GeV at
LEP. Results independent of the NLSP lifetime are presented for all relevant
final states including direct NLSP pair-production and, for the first time,
also NLSP production via cascade decays of heavier SUSY particles. None of the
searches shows evidence for SUSY particle production. Cross-section limits are
presented at the 95% confidence level both for direct NLSP production and for
cascade decays, providing the most general, almost model independent results.
These results are then interpreted in the framework of the minimal GMSB (mGMSB)
model, where large areas of the accessible parameter space are excluded. In the
mGMSB model, the NLSP masses are constrained to be larger than 53.5 GeV/c^2,
87.4 GeV/c^2 and 91.9 GeV/c^2 in the neutralino, stau and slepton co-NLSP
scenarios, respectively. A complete scan on the parameters of the mGMSB model
is performed, constraining the universal SUSY mass scale Lambda from the direct
SUSY particle searches: Lambda > 40, 27, 21, 17, 15 TeV/c^2 for messenger
indices N=1, 2, 3, 4, 5 respectively, for all NLSP lifetimes.