We describe three apparatus, known as the large, medium, and small apparatus,
used for high-precision measurements of the Nusselt number N as a function of
the Rayleigh number R for cylindrical samples of fluid and present results
illustrating the influence of the finite conductivity of the top and bottom
plates on the heat transport in the fluid. We used water samples at a mean
temperature of 40 degrees C (Prandtl number sigma = 4.4). The samples in the
large apparatus had a diameter D of 49.69 cm and heights L = 116.33, 74.42,
50.61, and 16.52 cm. For the medium apparatus we had D = 24.81 cm, and L =
90.20 and 24.76 cm. The small apparatus contained a sample with D = 9.21 cm,
and L = 9.52 cm. For each aspect ratio Gamma = D/L the data covered a range of
a little over a decade of R. The maximum R = 10^12 with Nusselt numbers N = 600
was reached for Gamma = 0.43. Measurements were made with both Aluminum and
Copper top and bottom plates of nominally identical size and shape. For the
large and medium apparatus the results with Aluminum plates fall below those
obtained with Copper plates, thus confirming qualitatively the prediction by
Verzicco that plates of finite conductivity diminish the heat transport in the
fluid. The Nusselt number N_infinity for plates with infinite conductivity was
estimated by fitting simultaneously Aluminum- and Copper-plate data sets to an
effective powerlaw for N_infinity multiplied by a correction factor f(X) = 1 -
exp[-(aX)^b] that depends on the ratio X of the thermal resistance of the fluid
to that of the plates as suggested by Verzicco. Within their uncertainties the
parameters a and b were independent of Gamma for the large apparatus and showed
a small Gamma-dependence for the medium apparatus. The correction was larger
for the large, smaller for the medium, and negligible for the small apparatus.