We identify 4 unusually bright (H < 25.5) galaxies from HST and Spitzer
CANDELS data with probable redshifts z ~ 7-9. These identifications include the
brightest-known galaxies to date at z > 7.5. As Y-band observations are not
available over the full CANDELS program to perform a standard Lyman-break
selection of z>7 galaxies, here we employ an alternate strategy using the deep
Spitzer/IRAC data. We identify z ~ 7.1-9.1 galaxies by selecting z > 6 galaxies
from the HST CANDELS data that show quite red IRAC [3.6]-[4.5] colors,
indicating a strong [OIII] line in the 4.5mu band. This selection strategy was
validated using a modest sample for which we have deep Y-band coverage. Here we
focus on using this criterion to select the brightest z > 7 sources. Applying
the IRAC criteria to all HST-selected optical-dropout galaxies over the full
900 arcmin**2 of the 5 CANDELS fields revealed four unusually bright z ~ 7.1,
7.6, 7.9 and 8.6 candidates. The median [3.6]-[4.5] color of our selected z ~
7.1-9.1 sample is consistent with rest-frame [OIII]+Hbeta EWs of 1600A in the
[4.5] band. Keck/MOSFIRE spectroscopy has been independently reported for two
of our selected sources EGS-zs8-1 and EGSY-2008532660, showing Lyalpha at a
redshift of 7.7302$\pm$0.0006 and 8.683^+0.001_-0.004, respectively. We present
similar Keck/MOSFIRE spectroscopy for a third selected galaxy with a probable
4.7sigma Lyalpha-line at a redshift of 7.4770+/-0.0008. All three have H-band
magnitudes of 25 mag and are 0.5 mag more luminous (M(UV) ~ -22.0) than any
previously discovered z ~ 8 galaxy, with important implications for the UV LF.
Our 3 brightest, highest redshift z > 7 galaxies all lie within the CANDELS EGS
field, providing a dramatic illustration of the potential impact of
field-to-field variance.