We discuss morphological properties of the large-scale jets in powerful radio
sources, which are now observed at radio, optical and X-ray frequencies, in
order to determine the origin of their X-ray radiation and the nature of the
particle acceleration responsible for their multiwavelength emission. We show
that modeling knots of the these objects as stationary regions of energy
dissipation within the uniform and continuous jet flow leads to several
problems. Such problems are especially pronounced if the observed X-ray
emission is due to inverse-Compton scattering of the CMB radiation. We explore
another possibility, namely that the knots represent moving and separate
portions of the jet matter, with excess kinetic power. We suggest a possible
connection between this scenario and the idea of intermittent/highly modulated
jet activity. The proposed model can explain some morphological properties of
quasar jets -- like high knot-to-interknot brightness contrasts,
frequency-independent knot profiles and almost universal extents of the knot
regions -- independently of the exact emission mechanism responsible for
producing the X-rays. In this context, we consider different possibilities for
the production of such X-ray radiation, and discuss the related issue of
particle acceleration. We conclude that the appropriate process cannot be
designated for certain yet. We suggest, however, that X-ray observations of the
jet in 3C 120 (in which intermittent jet activity is quite distinct) already
seem to support the synchrotron origin of the X-ray emission, at least in this
object.