Studying all non-redundant proteins in 76 most-commonly found structural
domains, the present work attempts to decipher latent patterns that
characterize acceptable and unacceptable symmetries in residue-residue
interactions in functional proteins. We report that cutting across the
structural classes, a select set of pairwise interactions are universally
favored by geometrical and evolutionary constraints, termed 'acceptable'
structural and evolutionary tunnels, respectively. An equally small subset of
residue-residue interactions, the 'unacceptable' structural and evolutionary
tunnels, is found to be universally disliked by structural and evolutionary
constraints. Non-trivial overlapping is detected among acceptable structural
and evolutionary tunnels, as also among unacceptable structural and
evolutionary tunnels. A subset of tunnels is found to have equal relative
importance, structurally and evolutionarily, in different structural classes.
The MET-MET tunnel is detected to be universally most unacceptable by both
structural and evolutionary constraints, whereas the ASP-LEU tunnel was found
to be the closest approximation to be universally most acceptable. Residual
populations in structural and evolutionary tunnels are found to be independent
of stereochemical properties of individual residues. It is argued with examples
that tunnels are emergent features that connect extent of symmetry in
residue-residue interactions to the level of quaternary structural
organization.