We consider the problem of differentially private query release through a
synthetic database approach. Departing from the existing approaches that
require the query set to be specified in advance, we advocate to devise
query-set independent mechanisms, with an ambitious goal of providing accurate
answers, while meeting the privacy constraints, for all queries in a general
query class. Specifically, a differentially private mechanism is constructed to
"encode" rich stochastic structure into the synthetic database, and
"customized" companion estimators are then derived to provide accurate answers
by making use of all available information, including the mechanism (which is
public information) and the query functions. Accordingly, the distortion under
the best of this kind of mechanisms at the worst-case query in a general query
class, so called the minimax distortion, provides a fundamental
characterization of differentially private query release.
  For the general class of statistical queries, we prove that with the
squared-error distortion measure, the minimax distortion is $O(1/n)$ by
deriving asymptotically tight upper and lower bounds in the regime that the
database size $n$ goes to infinity. The upper bound is achievable by a
mechanism $\mathcal{E}$ and its corresponding companion estimators, which
points directly to the feasibility of the proposed approach in large databases.
We further evaluate the mechanism $\mathcal{E}$ and the companion estimators
through experiments on real datasets from Netflix and Facebook. Experimental
results show improvement over the state-of-art MWEM algorithm and verify the
scaling behavior $O(1/n)$ of the minimax distortion.