Using a simple model of a neutron star with a perfectly rigid crust
constructed and a set of crust and core equations of state that span the range
of nuclear experimental uncertainty in the density dependence of the symmetry
energy from 25 MeV (soft EOS) to 115 MeV (stiff EOS), we calculate the
instability window for the onset of the Chandrasekhar-Friedmann-Schutz (CFS)
instability in r-mode oscillations for canonical neutron stars (1.4 M_{\odot})
and massive neutron stars (2.0 M_{\odot}). In these models the crust-core
transition density, and thus crustal thickness, is calculated consistently with
the core equation of state (EOS). For the canonical neutron star, the lower
bound of the r-mode instability window is reduced in frequency by \approx150 Hz
from the softest to the stiffest symmetry energy used, independent of mass and
temperature. The instability window also drops by \approx 100 Hz independent of
EOS when the mass is raised from 1.4 M_{\odot} to 2.0 M_{\odot}. Where
temperature estimates are available, the observed neutron stars in low mass
X-ray binaries (LMXBs) have frequencies below the instability window for the
1.4 M_{\odot} models, while some LMXBs fall within the instability window for
2.0 M_{\odot} stars if the symmetry energy is relatively stiff, indicating that
a softer symmetry energy is more consistent with observations within this
model. Thus we conclude that smaller values of L help stabilize neutron stars
against runaway r-mode oscillations. The critical temperature, below which no
star can reach the instability window without exceeding its Kepler frequency,
varies by nearly an order of magnitude from soft to stiff symmetry energies.
When the crust thickness and core EOS are treated consistently, a thicker crust
corresponds to a lower critical temperature, the opposite result to previous
studies in which the transition density was independent of the core EOS.