For a large Hermitian matrix $A\in \mathbb{C}^{N\times N}$, it is often the
case that the only affordable operation is matrix-vector multiplication. In
such case, randomized method is a powerful way to estimate the spectral density
(or density of states) of $A$. However, randomized methods developed so far for
estimating spectral densities only extract information from different random
vectors independently, and the accuracy is therefore inherently limited to
$\mathcal(1/\sqrt{N_{v}})$ where $N_{v}$ is the number of random vectors. In
this paper we demonstrate that the "$\mathcal(1/\sqrt{N_{v}})$ barrier" can be
overcome by taking advantage of the correlated information of random vectors
when properly filtered by polynomials of $A$. Our method uses the fact that the
estimation of the spectral density essentially requires the computation of the
trace of a series of low rank matrix functions. By repeatedly applying $A$ to
the same set of random vectors and taking different linear combination of the
results, we can sweep through the entire spectrum of $A$ by building such low
rank decomposition at different parts of the spectrum. Under some assumptions,
we demonstrate that a robust and efficient implementation of such spectrum
sweeping method can compute the spectral density accurately with
$\mathcal(N^2)$ computational cost and $\mathcal(N)$ memory cost. Numerical
results indicate that the new method can significantly outperform existing
randomized methods in terms of accuracy. Due to the preferable scalability, for
a modestly large matrix the new method can be $15$ times faster than that of
the diagonalization method. As an application, we demonstrate a way to
accurately compute a trace of a smooth matrix function, by carefully balancing
the smoothness of the integrand and the regularized density of states using a
deconvolution procedure.