In this work, we study a family of random geometric graphs on hyperbolic
spaces. In this setting, N points are chosen randomly on a hyperbolic space and
any two of them are joined by an edge with probability that depends on their
hyperbolic distance, independently of every other pair. In particular, when the
positions of the points have been fixed, the distribution over the set of
graphs on these points is the Boltzmann distribution, where the Hamiltonian is
given by the sum of weighted indicator functions for each pair of points, with
the weight being proportional to a real parameter \beta>0 (interpreted as the
inverse temperature) as well as to the hyperbolic distance between the
corresponding points. This class of random graphs was introduced by Krioukov et
al. We provide a rigorous analysis of aspects of this model and its dependence
on the parameter \beta, verifying some of their observations. We show that a
phase transition occurs around \beta =1. More specifically, we show that when
\beta > 1 the degree of a typical vertex is bounded in probability (in fact it
follows a distribution which for large values exhibits a power-law tail whose
exponent depends only on the curvature of the space), whereas for \beta <1 the
degree is a random variable whose expected value grows polynomially in N. When
\beta = 1, we establish logarithmic growth.
  For the case \beta > 1, we establish a connection with a class of
inhomogeneous random graphs known as the Chung-Lu model. Assume that we use the
Poincar\'e disc representation of a hyperbolic space. If we condition on the
distance of each one of the points from the origin, then the probability that
two given points are adjacent is expressed through the kernel of this
inhomogeneous random graph.