I show that physical devices that perform observation, prediction, or
recollection share an underlying mathematical structure. I call devices with
that structure "inference devices". I present a set of existence and
impossibility results concerning inference devices. These results hold
independent of the precise physical laws governing our universe. In a limited
sense, the impossibility results establish that Laplace was wrong to claim that
even in a classical, non-chaotic universe the future can be unerringly
predicted, given sufficient knowledge of the present. Alternatively, these
impossibility results can be viewed as a non-quantum mechanical "uncertainty
principle". Next I explore the close connections between the mathematics of
inference devices and of Turing Machines. In particular, the impossibility
results for inference devices are similar to the Halting theorem for TM's.
Furthermore, one can define an analog of Universal TM's (UTM's) for inference
devices. I call those analogs "strong inference devices". I use strong
inference devices to define the "inference complexity" of an inference task,
which is the analog of the Kolmogorov complexity of computing a string. However
no universe can contain more than one strong inference device. So whereas the
Kolmogorov complexity of a string is arbitrary up to specification of the UTM,
there is no such arbitrariness in the inference complexity of an inference
task. I end by discussing the philosophical implications of these results,
e.g., for whether the universe "is" a computer.