We consider damage spreading transitions in the framework of mode-coupling
theory. This theory describes relaxation processes in glasses in the mean-field
approximation which are known to be characterized by the presence of an
exponentially large number of meta-stable states. For systems evolving under
identical but arbitrarily correlated noises we demonstrate that there exists a
critical temperature $T_0$ which separates two different dynamical regimes
depending on whether damage spreads or not in the asymptotic long-time limit.
This transition exists for generic noise correlations such that the zero damage
solution is stable at high-temperatures being minimal for maximal noise
correlations. Although this dynamical transition depends on the type of noise
correlations we show that the asymptotic damage has the good properties of an
dynamical order parameter such as: 1) Independence on the initial damage; 2)
Independence on the class of initial condition and 3) Stability of the
transition in the presence of asymmetric interactions which violate detailed
balance. For maximally correlated noises we suggest that damage spreading
occurs due to the presence of a divergent number of saddle points (as well as
meta-stable states) in the thermodynamic limit consequence of the ruggedness of
the free energy landscape which characterizes the glassy state. These results
are then compared to extensive numerical simulations of a mean-field glass
model (the Bernasconi model) with Monte Carlo heat-bath dynamics. The freedom
of choosing arbitrary noise correlations for Langevin dynamics makes damage
spreading a interesting tool to probe the ruggedness of the configurational
landscape.