The aim of this paper is to investigate the properties of accretion disks
threaded by a weak vertical magnetic field, with a particular focus on the
interplay between MHD turbulence driven by the magnetorotational instability
(MRI) and outflows that might be launched from the disk. For that purpose, we
use a set of numerical simulations performed with the MHD code RAMSES in the
framework of the shearing box model. We concentrate on the case of a rather
weak vertical magnetic field such that the initial ratio beta0 of the thermal
and magnetic pressures in the disk midplane equals 10^4. As reported recently,
we find that MHD turbulence drives an efficient outflow out of the
computational box. We demonstrate a strong sensitivity of that result to the
box size: enlargements in the radial and vertical directions lead to a
reduction of up to an order of magnitude in the mass-loss rate. Such a
dependence prevents any realistic estimates of disk mass-loss rates being
derived using shearing-box simulations. We find however that the flow
morphology is robust and independent of the numerical details of the
simulations. Its properties display some features and approximate invariants
that are reminiscent of the Blandford & Payne launching mechanism, but
differences exist. For the magnetic field strength considered in this paper, we
also find that angular momentum transport is most likely dominated by MHD
turbulence, the saturation of which scales with the magnetic Prandtl number,
the ratio of viscosity and resistivity, in a way that is in good agreement with
expectations based on unstratified simulations. This paper thus demonstrates
for the first time that accretion disks can simultaneously exhibit MRI-driven
MHD turbulence along with magneto-centrifugally accelerated outflows.