Motivated by the problem of reducing the peak to average power ratio (PAPR)
of transmitted signals, we consider a design of complementary set matrices
whose column sequences satisfy a correlation constraint. The design algorithm
recursively builds a collection of $2^{t+1}$ mutually orthogonal (MO)
complementary set matrices starting from a companion pair of sequences. We
relate correlation properties of column sequences to that of the companion pair
and illustrate how to select an appropriate companion pair to ensure that a
given column correlation constraint is satisfied. For $t=0$, companion pair
properties directly determine matrix column correlation properties. For $t\geq
1$, reducing correlation merits of the companion pair may lead to improved
column correlation properties. However, further decrease of the maximum
out-off-phase aperiodic autocorrelation of column sequences is not possible
once the companion pair correlation merit is less than a threshold determined
by $t$. We also reveal a design of the companion pair which leads to
complementary set matrices with Golay column sequences. Exhaustive search for
companion pairs satisfying a column correlation constraint is infeasible for
medium and long sequences. We instead search for two shorter length sequences
by minimizing a cost function in terms of their autocorrelation and
crosscorrelation merits. Furthermore, an improved cost function which helps in
reducing the maximum out-off-phase column correlation is derived based on the
properties of the companion pair. By exploiting the well-known Welch bound,
sufficient conditions for the existence of companion pairs which satisfy a set
of column correlation constraints are also given.