NuSTAR observed G1.9+0.3, the youngest known supernova remnant in the Milky
Way, for 350 ks and detected emission up to $\sim$30 keV. The remnant's X-ray
morphology does not change significantly across the energy range from 3 to 20
keV. A combined fit between NuSTAR and CHANDRA shows that the spectrum steepens
with energy. The spectral shape can be well fitted with synchrotron emission
from a power-law electron energy distribution with an exponential cutoff with
no additional features. It can also be described by a purely phenomenological
model such as a broken power-law or a power-law with an exponential cutoff,
though these descriptions lack physical motivation. Using a fixed radio flux at
1 GHz of 1.17 Jy for the synchrotron model, we get a column density of N$_{\rm
H}$ = $(7.23\pm0.07) \times 10^{22}$ cm$^{-2}$, a spectral index of
$\alpha=0.633\pm0.003$, and a roll-off frequency of $\nu_{\rm
rolloff}=(3.07\pm0.18) \times 10^{17}$ Hz. This can be explained by particle
acceleration, to a maximum energy set by the finite remnant age, in a magnetic
field of about 10 $\mu$G, for which our roll-off implies a maximum energy of
about 100 TeV for both electrons and ions. Much higher magnetic-field strengths
would produce an electron spectrum that was cut off by radiative losses, giving
a much higher roll-off frequency that is independent of magnetic-field
strength. In this case, ions could be accelerated to much higher energies. A
search for $^{44}$Ti emission in the 67.9 keV line results in an upper limit of
$1.5 \times 10^{-5}$ $\,\mathrm{ph}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-2}\,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$
assuming a line width of 4.0 keV (1 sigma).