The problem of communicating a single message to a destination in presence of
multiple relay nodes, referred to as cooperative unicast network, is
considered. First, we introduce "Mixed Noisy Network Coding" (MNNC) scheme
which generalizes "Noisy Network Coding" (NNC) where relays are allowed to
decode-and-forward (DF) messages while all of them (without exception) transmit
noisy descriptions of their observations. These descriptions are exploited at
the destination and the DF relays aim to decode the transmitted messages while
creating full cooperation among the nodes. Moreover, the destination and the DF
relays can independently select the set of descriptions to be decoded or
treated as interference. This concept is further extended to multi-hopping
scenarios, referred to as "Layered MNNC" (LMNNC), where DF relays are organized
into disjoint groups representing one hop in the network. For cooperative
unicast additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) networks we show that -provided DF
relays are properly chosen- MNNC improves over all previously established
constant gaps to the cut-set bound. Secondly, we consider the composite
cooperative unicast network where the channel parameters are randomly drawn
before communication starts and remain fixed during the transmission. Each draw
is assumed to be unknown at the source and fully known at the destination but
only partly known at the relays. We introduce through MNNC scheme the concept
of "Selective Coding Strategy" (SCS) that enables relays to decide dynamically
whether, in addition to communicate noisy descriptions, is possible to decode
and forward messages. It is demonstrated through slow-fading AWGN relay
networks that SCS clearly outperforms conventional coding schemes.