An originally chaotic system can be controlled into various periodic
dynamics. When it is implemented into a legged robot's locomotion control as a
central pattern generator (CPG), sophisticated gait patterns arise so that the
robot can perform various walking behaviors. However, such a single chaotic CPG
controller has difficulties dealing with leg malfunction. Specifically, in the
scenarios presented here, its movement permanently deviates from the desired
trajectory. To address this problem, we extend the single chaotic CPG to
multiple CPGs with learning. The learning mechanism is based on a simulated
annealing algorithm. In a normal situation, the CPGs synchronize and their
dynamics are identical. With leg malfunction or disability, the CPGs lose
synchronization leading to independent dynamics. In this case, the learning
mechanism is applied to automatically adjust the remaining legs' oscillation
frequencies so that the robot adapts its locomotion to deal with the
malfunction. As a consequence, the trajectory produced by the multiple chaotic
CPGs resembles the original trajectory far better than the one produced by only
a single CPG. The performance of the system is evaluated first in a physical
simulation of a quadruped as well as a hexapod robot and finally in a real
six-legged walking machine called AMOSII. The experimental results presented
here reveal that using multiple CPGs with learning is an effective approach for
adaptive locomotion generation where, for instance, different body parts have
to perform independent movements for malfunction compensation.