We present a method to construct semi-numerical ``simulations'', which can
efficiently generate realizations of halo distributions and ionization maps at
high redshifts. Our procedure combines an excursion-set approach with
first-order Lagrangian perturbation theory and operates directly on the linear
density and velocity fields. As such, the achievable dynamic range with our
algorithm surpasses the current practical limit of N-body codes by orders of
magnitude. This is particularly significant in studies of reionization, where
the dynamic range is the principal limiting factor. We test our halo-finding
and HII bubble-finding algorithms independently against N-body simulations with
radiative transfer and obtain excellent agreement. We compute the size
distributions of ionized and neutral regions in our maps. We find even larger
ionized bubbles than do purely analytic models at the same volume-weighted mean
hydrogen neutral fraction. We also generate maps and power spectra of 21-cm
brightness temperature fluctuations, which for the first time include
corrections due to gas bulk velocities. We find that velocities widen the tails
of the temperature distributions and increase small-scale power, though these
effects quickly diminish as reionization progresses. We also include some
preliminary results from a simulation run with the largest dynamic range to
date: a 250 Mpc box that resolves halos with masses M >~ 2.2 x10^8 M_sun. We
show that accurately modeling the late stages of reionization requires such
large scales. The speed and dynamic range provided by our semi-numerical
approach will be extremely useful in the modeling of early structure formation
and reionization.