Many amorphous glassy materials exhibit complex spatio-temporal mechanical
response and rheology, characterized by an intermittent stress-strain response
and a fluctuating velocity profile. Under quasistatic and athermal deformation
protocols this heterogeneous plastic flow was shown to be composed of plastic
events of various sizes. In this paper, through numerical study of a 2D LJ
amorphous solid, we generalize the study of the heterogeneous dynamics of
glassy materials to the finite shear-rate and temperature case. The global
mechanical response obtained through the use of Molecular Dynamics is shown to
converge to the quasistatic limit obtained with an energy minimization
protocol. The detailed analysis of the plastic deformation at different shear
rates shows that the glass follows different flow regimes. At sufficiently low
shear rates the mechanical response reaches a shear-rate independent regime
that exhibits all the characteristics of the quasistatic response (finite size
effects, yield stress...). At intermediate shear rates the rheological
properties are determined by the externally applied shear-rate. Finally at
higher shear the system reaches a shear-rate independent homogeneous regime.
The existence of these three regimes is also confirmed by the detailed analysis
of the atomic motion. The computation of the four-point correlation function
shows that the transition from the shear-rate dominated to the quasistatic
regime is accompanied by the growth of a dynamical cooperativity length scale
$\xi$ that is shown to diverge with shear rate. This divergence is compared
with the prediction of a simple model that assumes the diffusive propagation of
plastic events.