In this work we present the concept of $C$-semianalytic subset of a real
analytic manifold and more generally of a real analytic space. $C$-semianalytic
sets can be understood as the natural generalization to the semianalytic
setting of global analytic sets introduced by Cartan ($C$-analytic sets for
short). More precisely $S$ is a $C$-semianalytic subset of a real analytic
space $(X,{\mathcal O}_X)$ if each point of $X$ has a neighborhood $U$ such
that $S\cap U$ is a finite boolean combinations of global analytic equalities
and strict inequalities on $X$. By means of paracompactness $C$-semianalytic
sets are the locally finite unions of finite boolean combinations of global
analytic equalities and strict inequalities on $X$.
  The family of $C$-semianalytic sets is closed under the same operations as
the family of semianalytic sets: locally finite unions and intersections,
complement, closure, interior, connected components, inverse images under
analytic maps, sets of points of dimension $k$, etc. although they are defined
involving only global analytic functions. In addition, we characterize
subanalytic sets as the images under proper analytic maps of $C$-semianalytic
sets.
  We prove also that the image of a $C$-semianalytic set $S$ under a proper
holomorphic map between Stein spaces is again a $C$-semianalytic set. The
previous result allows us to understand better the structure of the set $N(X)$
of points of non-coherence of a $C$-analytic subset $X$ of a real analytic
manifold $M$. We provide a global geometric-topological description of $N(X)$
inspired by the corresponding local one for analytic sets due to
Tancredi-Tognoli (1980), which requires complex analytic normalization. As a
consequence it holds that $N(X)$ is a $C$-semianalytic set of dimension
$\leq\dim(X)-2$.