In many graphics applications, the computation of exact geodesic distance is
very important. However, the high computational cost of the existing geodesic
algorithms means that they are not practical for large-scale models or
time-critical applications. To tackle this challenge, we propose the parallel
Chen-Han (or PCH) algorithm, which extends the classic Chen-Han (CH) discrete
geodesic algorithm to the parallel setting. The original CH algorithm and its
variant both lack a parallel solution because the windows (a key data structure
that carries the shortest distance in the wavefront propagation) are maintained
in a strict order or a tightly coupled manner, which means that only one window
is processed at a time. We propose dividing the CH's sequential algorithm into
four phases, window selection, window propagation, data organization, and
events processing so that there is no data dependence or conflicts in each
phase and the operations within each phase can be carried out in parallel. The
proposed PCH algorithm is able to propagate a large number of windows
simultaneously and independently. We also adopt a simple yet effective strategy
to control the total number of windows. We implement the PCH algorithm on
modern GPUs (such as Nvidia GTX 580) and analyze the performance in detail. The
performance improvement (compared to the sequential algorithms) is highly
consistent with GPU double-precision performance (GFLOPS). Extensive
experiments on real-world models demonstrate an order of magnitude improvement
in execution time compared to the state-of-the-art.