Skyline queries have been widely used as a practical tool for multi-criteria
decision analysis and for applications involving preference queries. For
example, in a typical online retail application, skyline queries can help
customers select the most interesting, among a pool of available, products.
Recently, reverse skyline queries have been proposed, highlighting the
manufacturer's perspective, i.e. how to determine the expected buyers of a
given product. In this work we develop novel algorithms for two important
classes of queries involving customer preferences. We first propose a novel
algorithm, termed as RSA, for answering reverse skyline queries. We then
introduce a new type of queries, namely the k-Most Attractive Candidates k-MAC
query. In this type of queries, given a set of existing product specifications
P, a set of customer preferences C and a set of new candidate products Q, the
k-MAC query returns the set of k candidate products from Q that jointly
maximizes the total number of expected buyers, measured as the cardinality of
the union of individual reverse skyline sets (i.e., influence sets). Applying
existing approaches to solve this problem would require calculating the reverse
skyline set for each candidate, which is prohibitively expensive for large data
sets. We, thus, propose a batched algorithm for this problem and compare its
performance against a branch-and-bound variant that we devise. Both of these
algorithms use in their core variants of our RSA algorithm. Our experimental
study using both synthetic and real data sets demonstrates that our proposed
algorithms outperform existing, or naive solutions to our studied classes of
queries.