Study of diffusion limits of the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm in high
dimensions yields useful quantificaton of the scaling of the underlying
proposal distribution in terms of the dimensionality. Here we consider the
recently introduced Transformation-based Markov Chain Monte Carlo (TMCMC)
(Dutta and Bhattacharya (2013a)), a methodology that is designed to update all
the parameters simultaneously using some simple deterministic transformation of
a one-dimensional random variable drawn from some arbitrary distribution on a
relevant support. The additive transformation based TMCMC is similar in spirit
to random walk Metropolis, except the fact that unlike the latter, additive
TMCMC uses a single draw from a one-dimensional proposal distribution to update
the high-dimensional parameter.
  In this paper, we study the diffusion limits of additive TMCMC under various
set-ups ranging from the product structure of the target density to the case
where the target is absolutely continuous with respect to a Gaussian measure;
we also consider the additive TMCMC within Gibbs approach for all the above
set-ups. These investigations lead to appropriate scaling of the
one-dimensional proposal density. We also show that the optimal acceptance rate
of additive TMCMC is 0.439 under all the aforementioned set-ups, in contrast
with the well-established 0.234 acceptance rate associated with optimal random
walk Metropolis algorithms under the same set-ups. We also elucidate the
ramifications of our results and the advantages of additive TMCMC over random
walk Metropolis with ample simulation studies. It was found that in all set ups
we considered- namely iid component set up, independent scaling components, a
wide range of dependent set ups as well as real spatial data application- TMCMC
performed much better and converged to the target density much faster than the
RWMH algorithm.