This paper presents and discusses a critical compilation of accurate,
fundamental determinations of stellar masses and radii. We have identified 95
detached binary systems containing 190 stars (94 eclipsing systems, and alpha
Centauri) that satisfy our criterion that the mass and radius of both stars be
known to 3% or better. To these we add interstellar reddening, effective
temperature, metal abundance, rotational velocity and apsidal motion
determinations when available, and we compute a number of other physical
parameters, notably luminosity and distance. We discuss the use of this
information for testing models of stellar evolution. The amount and quality of
the data also allow us to analyse the tidal evolution of the systems in
considerable depth, testing prescriptions of rotational synchronisation and
orbital circularisation in greater detail than possible before. The new data
also enable us to derive empirical calibrations of M and R for single (post-)
main-sequence stars above 0.6 M(Sun). Simple, polynomial functions of T(eff),
log g and [Fe/H] yield M and R with errors of 6% and 3%, respectively.
Excellent agreement is found with independent determinations for host stars of
transiting extrasolar planets, and good agreement with determinations of M and
R from stellar models as constrained by trigonometric parallaxes and
spectroscopic values of T(eff) and [Fe/H]. Finally, we list a set of 23
interferometric binaries with masses known to better than 3%, but without
fundamental radius determinations (except alpha Aur). We discuss the prospects
for improving these and other stellar parameters in the near future.