The paper reports on the investigations of the weak localization (WL) effects
in 3D polycrystalline thin films of InSb. The films are closely compensated
showing the electron concentration n>10^{16} cm^{-3} at the total concentration
of the donor and acceptor type structural defects >10^{18} cm^{-3}. Unless
Pb-doped, the InSb films do not show any measurable or show very small WL
effect at 4.2 K. The Pb-doping to the concentration of the order of 10^{18}
cm^{-3} leads to pronounced WL effects below 7 K. In particular, a clearly
manifested SO scattering is observed. From the comparison of the experimental
data on temperature dependence of the magnetoresistivity and sample resistance
with the WL theory, the temperature dependence of the phase destroying time is
determined. The determination is performed by fitting theoretical terms
obtained from Kawabata's theory to experimental data on magnetoresistance. It
is concluded that the dephasing process is connected to three separate
interaction processes. The first is due to the SO scatterings and is
characterized by temperature-independent relaxation time. The second is
associated with the electron-phonon interaction. The third dephasing process is
characterized by independent on temperature relaxation time tau_c. This
relaxation time is tentatively ascribed to inelastic scattering at extended
structural defects, like grain boundaries. The resulting time dephasing time
shows saturation in its temperature dependence. The temperature dependence of
the resistance of the InSb<Pb> films can be explained by the electron-electron
interaction for T<1 K, and by the WL effect for T>2 K.