We test the hypothesis that the velocity field derived from Tully-Fisher
measurements of spiral galaxies, and that derived independently from Dn-sigma
measurements of ellipticals and S0s, are noisy versions of the same underlying
velocity field. The radial velocity fields are derived using tensor Gaussian
smoothing of radius 1200 km/s. They are compared at grid points near which the
sampling by both types of galaxies is proper. This requirement defines a volume
of ~(50 Mpc/h)^3, containing ~10 independent subvolumes, mostly limited by the
available ellipticals. The two fields are compared using a correlation
statistic, whose distribution is determined via Monte-Carlo simulations. We
find that the data is consistent with the hypothesis, at the 10% level. We
demonstrate that the failure to reject the correlation is not just a result of
the errors being big, by using the same method to rule out complete
independence between the fields at the 99.8% level. The zero points of the two
distance indicators are matched by maximizing the correlation between the two
velocity fields. There is a marginal hint that the ellipticals tend to stream
slower than the spirals by ~8%. The correlation reinforced here is consistent
with the common working hypotheses that (a) the derived large-scale velocity
field is real, (b) it has a gravitational origin, and (c) the large-scale
velocities of spirals and ellipticals are hardly biased relative to each other.
On the other hand, it does not rule out any alternative to gravity where
objects of all types obtain similar large-scale velocities.