The inclusion process is a stochastic lattice gas, which is a natural bosonic
counterpart of the well-studied exclusion process and has strong connections to
models of heat conduction and applications in population genetics. Like the
zero-range process, due to attractive interaction between the particles, the
inclusion process can exhibit a condensation transition. In this paper we
present first rigorous results on the dynamics of the condensate formation for
this class of models. We study the symmetric inclusion process on a finite set
$S$ with total number of particles $N$ in the regime of strong interaction,
i.e. with independent diffusion rate $m=m_N \to 0$. For the case $N
m_N\to\infty$ we show that on the time scale $1/m_N$ condensates emerge from
general homogeneous initial conditions, and we precisely characterize their
limiting dynamics. In the simplest case of two sites or a fully connected
underlying random walk kernel, there is a single condensate hopping over $S$ as
a continuous-time random walk. In the non fully connected case several
condensates can coexist and exchange mass via intermediate sites in an
interesting coarsening process, which consists of a mixture of a diffusive
motion and a jump process, until a single condensate is formed. Our result is
based on a general two-scale form of the generator, with a fast-scale neutral
Wright-Fisher diffusion and a slow-scale deterministic motion. The motion of
the condensates is described in terms of the generator of the deterministic
motion and the harmonic projection corresponding to the absorbing states of the
Wright-Fisher diffusion.