Elongated magnetic polarities are observed during the emergence phase of
bipolar active regions (ARs). These extended features, called magnetic tongues,
are interpreted as a consequence of the azimuthal component of the magnetic
flux in the toroidal flux-tubes that form ARs. We develop a new systematic and
user-independent method to identify AR tongues. Our method is based on
determining and analyzing the evolution of the AR main polarity inversion line
(PIL). The effect of the tongues is quantified by measuring the acute angle [
tau] between the orientation of the PIL and the direction orthogonal to the AR
main bipolar axis. We apply a simple model to simulate the emergence of a
bipolar AR. This model lets us interpret the effect of magnetic tongues on
parameters that characterize ARs ( e.g. the PIL inclination and the tilt
angles, and their evolution). In this idealized kinematic emergence model, tau
is a monotonically increasing function of the twist and has the same sign as
the magnetic helicity. We systematically apply our procedure to a set of
bipolar ARs that were observed emerging in line-of-sight magnetograms over
eight years. For most of the cases studied, the tongues only have a small
influence on the AR tilt angle since tongues have a much lower magnetic flux
than the more concentrated main polarities. From the observed evolution of tau,
corrected for the temporal evolution of the tilt angle and its final value when
the AR is fully emerged, we estimate the average number of turns in the
subphotospherically emerging flux-rope. These values for the 41 observed ARs
are below unity, except for one. This indicates that subphotospheric flux-ropes
typically have a low amount of twist, i.e. highly twisted flux-tubes are rare.
Our results demonstrate that the evolution of the PIL is a robust indicator of
the presence of tongues and constrains the amount of twist in emerging
flux-tubes