HiggsSignals is a Fortran90 computer code that allows to test the
compatibility of Higgs sector predictions against Higgs rates and masses
measured at the LHC or the Tevatron. Arbitrary models with any number of Higgs
bosons can be investigated using a model-independent input scheme based on
HiggsBounds. The test is based on the calculation of a chi-squared measure from
the predictions and the measured Higgs rates and masses, with the ability of
fully taking into account systematics and correlations for the signal rate
predictions, luminosity and Higgs mass predictions. It features two
complementary methods for the test. First, the peak-centered method, in which
each observable is defined by a Higgs signal rate measured at a specific
hypothetical Higgs mass, corresponding to a tentative Higgs signal. Second, the
mass-centered method, where the test is evaluated by comparing the signal rate
measurement to the theory prediction at the Higgs mass predicted by the model.
The program allows for the simultaneous use of both methods, which is useful in
testing models with multiple Higgs bosons. The code automatically combines the
signal rates of multiple Higgs bosons if their signals cannot be resolved by
the experimental analysis. We compare results obtained with HiggsSignals to
official ATLAS and CMS results for various examples of Higgs property
determinations and find very good agreement. A few examples of HiggsSignals
applications are provided, going beyond the scenarios investigated by the LHC
collaborations. For models with more than one Higgs boson we recommend to use
HiggsSignals and HiggsBounds in parallel to exploit the full constraining power
of Higgs search exclusion limits and the measurements of the signal seen at
around 125.5 GeV.