Tractable generalizations of the Gaussian distribution play an important role
for the analysis of high-dimensional data. One very general super-class of
Normal distributions is the class of $\nu$-spherical distributions whose random
variables can be represented as the product $\x = r\cdot \u$ of a uniformly
distribution random variable $\u$ on the $1$-level set of a positively
homogeneous function $\nu$ and arbitrary positive radial random variable $r$.
Prominent subclasses of $\nu$-spherical distributions are spherically symmetric
distributions ($\nu(\x)=\|\x\|_2$) which have been further generalized to the
class of $L_p$-spherically symmetric distributions ($\nu(\x)=\|\x\|_p$). Both
of these classes contain the Gaussian as a special case. In general, however,
$\nu$-spherical distributions are computationally intractable since, for
instance, the normalization constant or fast sampling algorithms are unknown
for an arbitrary $\nu$. In this paper we introduce a new subclass of
$\nu$-spherical distributions by choosing $\nu$ to be a nested cascade of
$L_p$-norms. This class is still computationally tractable, but includes all
the aforementioned subclasses as a special case. We derive a general expression
for $L_p$-nested symmetric distributions as well as the uniform distribution on
the $L_p$-nested unit sphere, including an explicit expression for the
normalization constant. We state several general properties of $L_p$-nested
symmetric distributions, investigate its marginals, maximum likelihood fitting
and discuss its tight links to well known machine learning methods such as
Independent Component Analysis (ICA), Independent Subspace Analysis (ISA) and
mixed norm regularizers. Finally, we derive a fast and exact sampling algorithm
for arbitrary $L_p$-nested symmetric distributions, and introduce the Nested
Radial Factorization algorithm (NRF), which is a form of non-linear ICA.