We study the problem of identification of a proper state-space for the
stochastic dynamics of free particles in continuum, with their possible birth
and death. In this dynamics, the motion of each separate particle is described
by a fixed Markov process $M$ on a Riemannian manifold $X$. The main problem
arising here is a possible collapse of the system, in the sense that, though
the initial configuration of particles is locally finite, there could exist a
compact set in $X$ such that, with probability one, infinitely many particles
will arrive at this set at some time $t>0$. We assume that $X$ has infinite
volume and, for each $\alpha\ge1$, we consider the set $\Theta_\alpha$ of all
infinite configurations in $X$ for which the number of particles in a compact
set is bounded by a constant times the $\alpha$-th power of the volume of the
set. We find quite general conditions on the process $M$ which guarantee that
the corresponding infinite particle process can start at each configuration
from $\Theta_\alpha$, will never leave $\Theta_\alpha$, and has cadlag (or,
even, continuous) sample paths in the vague topology. We consider the following
examples of applications of our results: Brownian motion on the configuration
space, free Glauber dynamics on the configuration space (or a birth-and-death
process in $X$), and free Kawasaki dynamics on the configuration space. We also
show that if $X=\mathbb R^d$, then for a wide class of starting distributions,
the (non-equilibrium) free Glauber dynamics is a scaling limit of
(non-equilibrium) free Kawasaki dynamics.