We combine information on cosmological parameters from cluster abundances,
CMB primordial anisotropies and the IRAS 1.2 Jy galaxy redshift survey. We take
as free parameters the present values of the total matter density of the
universe, Omega_m, the Hubble parameter, h, sigma_8, and the IRAS biasing
factor, b_IRAS. We assume that the universe is spatially flat, with a
cosmological constant, and that structure formed from adiabatic initial
fluctuations with a Harrison-Zel'dovich power spectrum. The nucleosynthesis
value Omega_b=0.019/h^2 is adopted. We use the full three- and four-
dimensional likelihood functions for each data set and marginalise these to
two- and one- dimensional distributions in a Bayesian way, integrating over the
other parameters. It is shown that the three data sets are in excellent
agreement, with a best fit point of Omega_m= 1-Omega_Lambda=0.36, h=0.54,
sigma_8=0.74, and b_IRAS=1.08. This point is within one sigma of the minimum
for each data set alone. Pairs of these data sets have their degeneracies in
sufficiently different directions that using only two data sets at a time is
sufficient to place good constraints on the cosmological parameters. We show
that the results from each of the three possible pairings of the data are also
in good agreement. Finally, we combine all three data sets to obtain
marginalised 68 per cent confidence intervals of 0.30<Omega_m<0.43,
0.48<h<0.59, 0.69<sigma_8<0.79, and 1.01<b_IRAS<1.16. For the best fit
parameters the CMB quadrupole is Q_rms-ps=18.0 uK, Gamma=0.15, Omega_b=0.066
and the age of the universe is 16.7 Gyr.