A well-known open question is whether every countable collection of Lipschitz
functions on a Banach space X with separable dual has a common point of Frechet
differentiability. We show that the answer is positive for some
infinite-dimensional X. Previously, even for collections consisting of two
functions this has been known for finite-dimensional X only (although for one
function the answer is known to be affirmative in full generality). Our aims
are achieved by introducing a new class of null sets in Banach spaces (called
$\Gamma$-null sets), whose definition involves both the notions of category and
measure, and showing that the required differentiability holds almost
everywhere with respect to it. We even obtain existence of Fr\'echet
derivatives of Lipschitz functions between certain infinite-dimensional Banach
spaces;no such results have been known previously. Our main result states that
a Lipschitz map between separable Banach spaces is Fr\'echet differentiable
$\Gamma$-almost everywhere provided that it is regularly Gateaux differentiable
$\Gamma$-almost everywhere and the Gateaux derivatives stay within a norm
separable space of operators. It is easy to see that Lipschitz maps of X to
spaces with the Radon-Nikodym property are Gateaux differentiable
$\Gamma$-almost everywhere. Moreover, Gateaux differentiability implies regular
Gateaux differentiability with exception of another kind of negligible sets,
so-called $\sigma$-porous sets. The answer to the question is therefore
positive in every space in which every $\sigma$-porous set is $\Gamma$-null. We
show that this holds for $C(K)$ with $K$ countable compact, the Tsirelson space
and for all subspaces of $c_0$, but that it fails for Hilbert spaces.