We present a family of birational transformations in $ CP_2$ depending on
two, or three, parameters which does not, generically, preserve meromorphic
two-forms. With the introduction of the orbit of the critical set (vanishing
condition of the Jacobian), also called ``post-critical set'', we get some new
structures, some "non-analytic" two-form which reduce to meromorphic two-forms
for particular subvarieties in the parameter space. On these subvarieties, the
iterates of the critical set have a polynomial growth in the \emph{degrees of
the parameters}, while one has an exponential growth out of these subspaces.
The analysis of our birational transformation in $ CP_2$ is first carried out
using Diller-Favre criterion in order to find the complexity reduction of the
mapping. The integrable cases are found. The identification between the
complexity growth and the topological entropy is, one more time, verified. We
perform plots of the post-critical set, as well as calculations of Lyapunov
exponents for many orbits, confirming that generically no meromorphic two-form
can be preserved for this mapping. These birational transformations in $
CP_2$, which, generically, do not preserve any meromorphic two-form, are
extremely similar to other birational transformations we previously studied,
which do preserve meromorphic two-forms. We note that these two sets of
birational transformations exhibit totally similar results as far as
topological complexity is concerned, but drastically different results as far
as a more ``probabilistic'' approach of dynamical systems is concerned
(Lyapunov exponents). With these examples we see that the existence of a
preserved meromorphic two-form explains most of the (numerical) discrepancy
between the topological and probabilistic approach of dynamical systems.