We present the results of analysis of constraints on cosmological parameters
from cosmic microwave background (CMB) alone and in combination with galaxy
cluster baryon fraction assuming inflation--generated adiabatic scalar
fluctuations. The CMB constraints are obtained using our likelihood
approximation method (Bartlett et al., 2000, Douspis et al., 2001). In the
present analysis we use the new data coming from MAXIMA and BOOMERanG balloon
borne experiments, the first results of the DASI interferometer together with
the COBE/DMR data. The quality of these independent data sets implies that the
$C_\ell$ are rather well known, and allow reliable constraints. We found that
the constraints in the $\Omega-H_0$ plane are very tightened, favouring a flat
Universe, that the index of the primordial fluctuations is very close to one,
that the primordial baryon density is now in good agreement with primordial
nucleosynthesis. Nevertheless degeneracies between several parameters still
exist, and for instance the constraint on the cosmological constant or the
Hubble constant are very weak, preferred values being low. A way to break these
degeneracies is to ``cross-constrain'' the parameters by combining with
constraints from other independent data. We use the baryon fraction
determination from X-ray clusters of galaxies as an additional constraint and
show that the combined analysis leads to strong constraints on all cosmological
parameters. Using a high baryon fraction ($\sim 15%$ for $h = 0.5$) we found a
rather low Hubble constant, values around 80 km/s/Mpc being ruled out. Using a
recent and low baryon fraction estimation ($\sim 10%$ for $h = 0.5$) we found a
preferred model with a low Hubble constant and a high density content
($\Omega_m$), an Einstein--de Sitter model being only weakly ruled out.