Boolean Satisfiability (SAT) solvers are now routinely used in the
verification of large industrial problems. However, their application in
safety-critical domains such as the railways, avionics, and automotive
industries requires some form of assurance for the results, as the solvers can
(and sometimes do) have bugs. Unfortunately, the complexity of modern, highly
optimized SAT solvers renders impractical the development of direct formal
proofs of their correctness. This paper presents an alternative approach where
an untrusted, industrial-strength, SAT solver is plugged into a trusted,
formally certified, SAT proof checker to provide industrial-strength certified
SAT solving. The key novelties and characteristics of our approach are (i) that
the checker is automatically extracted from the formal development, (ii), that
the combined system can be used as a standalone executable program independent
of any supporting theorem prover, and (iii) that the checker certifies any SAT
solver respecting the agreed format for satisfiability and unsatisfiability
claims. The core of the system is a certified checker for unsatisfiability
claims that is formally designed and verified in Coq. We present its formal
design and outline the correctness proofs. The actual standalone checker is
automatically extracted from the the Coq development. An evaluation of the
certified checker on a representative set of industrial benchmarks from the SAT
Race Competition shows that, albeit it is slower than uncertified SAT checkers,
it is significantly faster than certified checkers implemented on top of an
interactive theorem prover.