We study the spectroscopic properties and environments of red spiral galaxies
found by the Galaxy Zoo project. By carefully selecting face-on, disk dominated
spirals we construct a sample of truly passive disks (not dust reddened, nor
dominated by old stellar populations in a bulge). As such, our red spirals
represent an interesting set of possible transition objects between normal blue
spirals and red early types. We use SDSS data to investigate the physical
processes which could have turned these objects red without disturbing their
morphology. Red spirals prefer intermediate density regimes, however there are
no obvious correlations between red spiral properties and environment -
environment alone is not sufficient to determine if a spiral will become red.
Red spirals are a small fraction of spirals at low masses, but are a
significant fraction at large stellar masses - massive galaxies are red
independent of morphology. We confirm that red spirals have older stellar popns
and less recent star formation than the main spiral population. While the
presence of spiral arms suggests that major star formation cannot have ceased
long ago, we show that these are not recent post-starbursts, so star formation
must have ceased gradually. Intriguingly, red spirals are ~4 times more likely
than normal spirals to host optically identified Seyfert or LINER, with most of
the difference coming from LINERs. We find a curiously large bar fraction in
the red spirals suggesting that the cessation of star formation and bar
instabilities are strongly correlated. We conclude by discussing the possible
origins. We suggest they may represent the very oldest spiral galaxies which
have already used up their reserves of gas - probably aided by strangulation,
and perhaps bar instabilities moving material around in the disk.