A More Sums Than Differences (MSTD, or sum-dominant) set is a finite set
$A\subset \mathbb{Z}$ such that $|A+A|<|A-A|$. Though it was believed that the
percentage of subsets of $\{0,...,n\}$ that are sum-dominant tends to zero, in
2006 Martin and O'Bryant \cite{MO} proved a positive percentage are
sum-dominant. We generalize their result to the many different ways of taking
sums and differences of a set. We prove that
$|\epsilon_1A+...+\epsilon_kA|>|\delta_1A+...+\delta_kA|$ a positive percent of
the time for all nontrivial choices of $\epsilon_j,\delta_j\in \{-1,1\}$.
Previous approaches proved the existence of infinitely many such sets given the
existence of one; however, no method existed to construct such a set. We
develop a new, explicit construction for one such set, and then extend to a
positive percentage of sets.
  We extend these results further, finding sets that exhibit different behavior
as more sums/differences are taken. For example, notation as above we prove
that for any $m$, $|\epsilon_1A + ... + \epsilon_kA| - |\delta_1A + ... +
\delta_kA| = m$ a positive percentage of the time. We find the limiting
behavior of $kA=A+...+A$ for an arbitrary set $A$ as $k\to\infty$ and an upper
bound of $k$ for such behavior to settle down. Finally, we say $A$ is
$k$-generational sum-dominant if $A$, $A+A$, ...,$kA$ are all sum-dominant.
Numerical searches were unable to find even a 2-generational set (heuristics
indicate the probability is at most $10^{-9}$, and almost surely significantly
less). We prove the surprising result that for any $k$ a positive percentage of
sets are $k$-generational, and no set can be $k$-generational for all $k$.