We study the reliability of the Two-Step moduli stabilization in the type-IIB
Large Volume Scenarios with matter and gauge interactions. The general analysis
is based on a family of N=1 Supergravity models with a factorizable Kaehler
invariant function, where the decoupling between two sets of fields without a
mass hierarchy is easily understood. For the Large Volume Scenario particular
analyses are performed for explicit models, one of such developed for the first
time here, finding that the simplified version, where the Dilaton and Complex
structure moduli are regarded as frozen by a previous stabilization, is a
reliable supersymmetric description whenever the neglected fields stand at
their leading F-flatness conditions and be neutral. The terms missed by the
simplified approach are either suppressed by powers of the Calabi-Yau volume,
or are higher order operators in the matter fields, and then irrelevant for the
moduli stabilization rocedure. Although the power of the volume suppressing
such corrections depends on the particular model, up to the mass level it is
independent of the modular weight for the matter fields. This at least for the
models studied here but we give arguments to expect the same in general. These
claims are checked through numerical examples. We discuss how the factorizable
models present a context where despite the lack of a hierarchy with the
supersymmetry breaking scale, the effective theory still has a supersymmetric
description. This can be understood from the fact that it is possible to find
vanishing solution for the auxiliary components of the fields being integrated
out, independently of the remaining dynamics. Our results settle down the
question on the reliability of the way the Dilaton and Complex structure are
treated in type-IIB compactifications with large compact manifold volumina.