This thesis presents a wide-ranging study of localising relational degrees of
freedom. Three physical systems are studied in depth, each built upon a simple
measurement-based process. For each physical system - light from independent
sources leaking onto a beam splitter monitored by photodetectors, spatially
interfering Bose-Einstein condensates extracted from separate preparation
procedures, and delocalised massive particles or mirrors scattering light which
is detected in the far-field - the thesis investigates the key features of the
underlying process of localisation, and explores the properties of the induced
post-measurement states of the system. A range of analytical and numerical
methods are used. Many new results are presented - for example, cases of mixed
initial states are considered in addition to the more commonly considered pure
states. Up to now there has been little attempt to develop in detail the themes
common to studies concerned with specific physical examples. This thesis
addresses this, and sets out a "modus operandi" that can be applied widely. A
variety of specific applications are considered - both in the context of
controlled laboratory experiments, and with a view to understanding processes
occurring in nature. The thesis is introduced and summarised in Chapter 1.
Chapter 2 studies localising relative optical phase in the canonical
interference process. This discussion is extended and applied in Chapter 3.
Chapter 4 discusses localising relative atomic phase in interference
experiments with Bose-Einstein condensates. The emergence of relative positions
between particles scattering light is explored in Chapter 5. The thesis
concludes with an Outlook, Chapter 6.