The Hawking flux from a black hole, (at least as seen from large distances),
is extremely sparse and thin, with the average time between emission of
successive Hawking quanta being hundreds of times larger than the natural
timescale set by the energies of the emitted quanta. Some aspects of this
result have been known for over 30 years, but have been largely forgotten,
possibly because contributors focussed mainly on the late-time high-temperature
regime. We shall instead focus on the early-stage low-temperature regime, and
shall both quantify and significantly extend these observations in a number of
different ways.
  First we shall identify several natural dimensionless figures of merit, and
thereby compare the mean time between emission of successive Hawking quanta to
several quite natural timescales that can be associated with the emitted
quanta, demonstrating that ratios of 300 or more are typical for emission of
photons or gravitons from a Schwarzschild black hole. Furthermore these ratios
are independent of the mass of the black hole as it slowly evolves. The
situation for fermion emission (massless neutrinos) is actually worse. Second,
we shall then show that the situation for Reissner-Nordstrom, Kerr, Kerr-Newman
and "dirty" black holes is even worse. Third, we consider the effects of
particle rest mass. Overall, the Hawking quanta are seen to be dribbling out of
the black hole one at a time, in an extremely slow cascade of 3-body decays.
This implies that the Hawking flux is subject to "shot noise". Observationally,
the Planck spectrum of the Hawking flux can only be determined by collecting
and integrating data over a very long time. We conclude by connecting these
points back to various kinematic aspects of the Hawking evaporation process.