A novel method of analysis of double-lined eclipsing binaries containing a
radially pulsating star is presented. The combined pulsating-eclipsing light
curve is built up from a purely eclipsing light curve grid created using an
existing modeling tool. For every pulsation phase the instantaneous radius and
surface brightness are taken into account, being calculated from the
disentangled radial velocity curve of the pulsating star and from its
out-of-eclipse pulsational light curve and the light ratio of the components,
respectively. The best model is found using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo
method.
  The method is applied to the eclipsing binary Cepheid OGLE-LMC-CEP-0227
(P_puls = 3.80 d, P_orb = 309 d). We analyze a set of new spectroscopic and
photometric observations for this binary, simultaneously fitting OGLE V-band,
I-band and Spitzer 3.6 {\mu}m photometry. We derive a set of fundamental
parameters of the system significantly improving the precision comparing to the
previous results obtained by our group. The Cepheid mass and radius are M_1 =
4.165 +/- 0.032 M_solar and R_1 = 34.92 +/- 0.34 R_solar, respectively.
  For the first time a direct, geometrical and distance-independent
determination of the Cepheid projection factor is presented. The value p = 1.21
+/- 0.03(stat.) +/- 0.04(syst.) is consistent with theoretical expectations for
a short period Cepheid and interferometric measurements for {\delta} Cep. We
also find a very high value of the optical limb darkening coefficients for the
Cepheid component, in strong disagreement with theoretical predictions for
static atmospheres at a given surface temperature and gravity.