We prove that the attractor of the 1D quintic complex Ginzburg-Landau
equation with a broken phase symmetry has strictly positive space-time entropy
for an open set of parameter values. The result is obtained by studying chaotic
oscillations in grids of weakly interacting solitons in a class of
Ginzburg-Landau type equations. We provide an analytic proof for the existence
of two-soliton configurations with chaotic temporal behavior, and construct
solutions which are closed to a grid of such chaotic soliton pairs, with every
pair in the grid well spatially separated from the neighboring ones for all
time. The temporal evolution of the well-separated multi-soliton structures is
described by a weakly coupled lattice dynamical system (LDS) for the
coordinates and phases of the solitons. We develop a version of normal
hyperbolicity theory for the weakly coupled LDSs with continuous time and
establish for them the existence of space-time chaotic patterns similar to the
Sinai-Bunimovich chaos in discrete-time LDSs. While the LDS part of the theory
may be of independent interest, the main difficulty addressed in the paper
concerns with lifting the space-time chaotic solutions of the LDS back to the
initial PDE. The equations we consider here are space-time autonomous, i.e. we
impose no spatial or temporal modulation which could prevent the individual
solitons in the grid from drifting towards each other and destroying the
well-separated grid structure in a finite time. We however manage to show that
the set of space-time chaotic solutions for which the random soliton drift is
arrested is large enough, so the corresponding space-time entropy is strictly
positive.