First, for each case to be tested, a specific target inspiral signal is
selected for parameter extraction. In a future real analysis, the target signal
would be a real signal actually observed by a gravitational wave detector such
as LISA. In this study, however, the target signals are themselves simulations.
Some cases were selected to resemble sources likely to be detected by LISA when
it flies; others were selected to facilitate comparison with previous work
using Fisher matrix techniques. Then, for each target inspiral signal, a grid
search of the input parameter space is conducted to determine the set of input
parameters that produce a simulated inspiral output signal compatible with the
target. In this study, we consider four parameters: the two masses, the spin of
the larger black hole, and the eccentricity of the orbit. Searching through
this four dimensional parameter space requires that hundreds of possible input
source parameter combinations be simulated for each target signal analyzed. For
each input parameter combination, the detailed time history of the phase of the
resulting inspiral is simulated and compared with the phase history of the
target signal. The simulation, comparison, and grid search technique used in
this study requires more work than the Fisher matrix technique used in most
previous studies of this topic. However, this method yields a detailed map of
the acceptable region of input parameter space, in contrast to the
multidimensional ellipsoids of the Fisher matrix method. Nevertheless, the
final results are in general agreement with those obtained previously by the
Fisher matrix method, providing a partly independent confirmation of both
results.