Presented are the first interferometric images of cool starspots on the
chromospherically active giant $\lambda$ Andromedae. These images represent the
first model-independent images of cool starspots on a star other than the Sun
to date. The interferometric observations, taken with the Michigan Infra-Red
Combiner coupled to the Center for High Angular Resolution Astronomy Array,
span 26 days from Aug 17$^{th}$, 2008 to Sep 24$^{th}$, 2011. The photometric
time series acquired at Fairborn Observatory spanning Sep 20$^{th}$, 2008 to
Jan 20$^{th}$, 2011 is also presented. The angular diameter and power law
limb-darkening coefficient of this star are 2.759 $\pm$ 0.050 mas and 0.229
$\pm$ 0.111, respectively. Starspot properties are obtained from both modeled
and SQUEEZE reconstructed images. The images from 2010 through 2011 show
anywhere from one to four starspots. The measured properties of identical
starspots identified in both the model and reconstructed images are within two
$\sigma$ error bars in 51$\%$ of cases. The cadence in the data for the 2010
and 2011 data sets are sufficient to measure a stellar rotation period based on
apparent starspot motion. This leads to estimates of the rotation period
(P$_{2010}$ = 60 $\pm$ 13 days, P$_{2011}$ = 54.0 $\pm$ 7.6 days) that are
consistent with the photometrically determined period of 54.8 days. In
addition, the inclination and position angle of the rotation axis is computed
for both the 2010 and 2011 data sets; values ($\bar{\Psi}$ = 21.5$\degree$,
$\bar{\emph{i}}$ = 78.0$\degree$) for each are nearly identical between the two
years. \end{abstract}