The quenched chiral logs are examined on a $16^3 \times 28$ lattice with
Iwasaki gauge action and overlap fermions. The pion decay constant $f_{\pi}$ is
used to set the lattice spacing, $a = 0.200(3) {\rm fm}$. With pion mass as low
as $\sim 180 {\rm MeV}$, we see the quenched chiral logs clearly in
$m_{\pi}^2/m$ and $f_P$, the pseudoscalar decay constant. We analyze the data
to determine how low the pion mass needs to be in order for the quenched
one-loop chiral perturbation theory ($\chi$PT) to apply. With the constrained
curve-fitting method, we are able to extract the quenched chiral log parameter
$\delta$ together with other low-energy parameters. Only for $m_{\pi} \leq 300
{\rm MeV}$ do we obtain a consistent and stable fit with a constant $\delta$
which we determine to be 0.24(3)(4) (at the chiral scale $\Lambda_{\chi}=0.8
{\rm GeV}$). By comparing to the $12^3 \times 28$ lattice, we estimate the
finite volume effect to be about 2.7% for the smallest pion mass. We also
fitted the pion mass to the form for the re-summed cactus diagrams and found
that its applicable region is extended farther than the range for the one-loop
formula, perhaps up to $m_{\pi} \sim 500-600$ MeV. The scale independent
$\delta$ is determined to be 0.20(3) in this case. We study the quenched
non-analytic terms in the nucleon mass and find that the coefficient $C_{1/2}$
in the nucleon mass is consistent with the prediction of one-loop $\chi$PT\@.
We also obtain the low energy constant $L_5$ from $f_{\pi}$. We conclude from
this study that it is imperative to cover only the range of data with the pion
mass less than $\sim 300 {\rm MeV}$ in order to examine the chiral behavior of
the hadron masses and decay constants in quenched QCD and match them with
quenched one-loop $\chi$PT\@.