We present multi-component photoionization models allowing for local
density inhomogeneities in the NLR to interpret the emission line spectra of
Seyfert 2 galaxies. This approach leads to a successful match of a large set
of line intensities from the UV to the NIR. In particular, the hitherto
elusive NIR features [SIII]9062+9531 as well as high-ionization lines like
[FeVII] are consistently fitted. The predictions of CIII] and CIV are
considerably improved. From the detailed analysis of single-component
photoionization models we derive the minimal radial extent of the NLR and the
necessary span in density. Furthermore, we determine constraints on
suggestions made about the role of matter-bounded clouds, and on proposed
explanations for large [OIII]4363/5007 ratios (the so-called `temperature
problem'), and assess the usability of some emission-line ratios as
indicators of the ionization parameter. We find that a systematic variation
of the cloud column densities in a population of matter-bounded clouds is
inconsistent with the trends and correlations exhibited by the emission lines
in the diagnostic diagrams. Concerning the temperature problem, the only
possibility that leads to an overall consistency with the strengths of all
other observed emission lines is subsolar metal abundances (as compared to
e.g. the presence of dust, the existence of a high-density component, or
matter-bounded clouds). In addition, the consequences of the presence of
(Galactic-ISM-like) dust internal to the clouds were investigated. These
models alleviate the [OIII]-ratio problem but did not lead to overall
consistent fits. In our final model series, the NLR is composed of a mixture
of metal-depleted (0.5 x solar) clouds with a radius-independent range in
densities (10^2 to 10^5 cm^-3) distributed over a range of distances from the
nucleus (galactocentric radii from at least $\sim$ 10^{20} cm to 10^{21.5}
cm, for $Q_{tot} = 10^{54}$ s^{-1}). In order to encompass the observed
range of each line intensity relative to H$\beta$, it turns out to be
necessary to vary the spectral energy distribution incident on the clouds,
qualitatively confirming the findings of Ho et al. (1993). We found a
successful continuum sequence by adding an increasing contribution of a hot
black body ($T \approx 200000$ K) to a steep powerlaw ($\alpha_{uv-x}
\approx -2$). These continua imply that low and high-excitation objects
differ in the strength but not in the basic shape of the EUV bump.