We develop a practical and novel method for inference on intersection bounds,
namely bounds defined by either the infimum or supremum of a parametric or
nonparametric function, or equivalently, the value of a linear programming
problem with a potentially infinite constraint set. We show that many bounds
characterizations in econometrics, for instance bounds on parameters under
conditional moment inequalities, can be formulated as intersection bounds. Our
approach is especially convenient for models comprised of a continuum of
inequalities that are separable in parameters, and also applies to models with
inequalities that are non-separable in parameters. Since analog estimators for
intersection bounds can be severely biased in finite samples, routinely
underestimating the size of the identified set, we also offer a
median-bias-corrected estimator of such bounds as a by-product of our
inferential procedures. We develop theory for large sample inference based on
the strong approximation of a sequence of series or kernel-based empirical
processes by a sequence of "penultimate" Gaussian processes. These penultimate
processes are generally not weakly convergent, and thus non-Donsker. Our
theoretical results establish that we can nonetheless perform asymptotically
valid inference based on these processes. Our construction also provides new
adaptive inequality/moment selection methods. We provide conditions for the use
of nonparametric kernel and series estimators, including a novel result that
establishes strong approximation for any general series estimator admitting
linearization, which may be of independent interest.