In this paper we give a new basis, $\Lambda$, for the Homflypt skein module
of the solid torus, $\mathcal{S}({\rm ST})$, which was predicted by Jozef
Przytycki, using topological interpretation. The basis $\Lambda$ is different
from the basis $\Lambda^{\prime}$, discovered independently by Hoste--Kidwell
\cite{HK} and Turaev \cite{Tu} with the use of diagrammatic methods. For
finding the basis $\Lambda$ we use the generalized Hecke algebra of type B,
$\textrm{H}_{1,n}$, defined by the second contributor in \cite{La2}, which is
generated by looping elements and braiding elements and which is isomorphic to
the affine Hecke algebra of type A. Namely, we start with the well-known basis
of $\mathcal{S}({\rm ST})$, $\Lambda^{\prime}$, and an appropriate linear basis
$\Sigma_n$ of the algebra $\textrm{H}_{1,n}$. We then convert elements in
$\Lambda^{\prime}$ to linear combinations of elements in the new basic set
$\Lambda$. This is done in two steps: First we convert elements in
$\Lambda^{\prime}$ to elements in $\Sigma_n$. Then, using conjugation and the
stabilization moves, we convert these elements to linear combinations of
elements in $\Lambda$ by managing gaps in the indices of the looping elements
and by eliminating braiding tails in the words. Further, we define an ordering
relation in $\Lambda^{\prime}$ and $\Lambda$ and prove that the sets are
totally ordered. Finally, using this ordering, we relate the sets
$\Lambda^{\prime}$ and $\Lambda$ via a block diagonal matrix, where each block
is an infinite lower triangular matrix with invertible elements in the diagonal
and we prove linear independence of the set $\Lambda$. The infinite matrix is
then "invertible" and thus, the set $\Lambda$ is a basis for $\mathcal{S}({\rm
ST})$. The aim of this paper is to provide the basic algebraic tools for
computing skein modules of c.c.o. $3$-manifolds via algebraic means.