We show that, within SO(10)-inspired leptogenesis, there exists a solution,
with definite constraints on low energy neutrino parameters, able
simultaneously to reproduce the observed baryon asymmetry and to satisfy the
conditions for the independence of the final asymmetry of the initial
conditions (strong thermal leptogenesis). We find that the wash-out of a
pre-existing asymmetry as large as O(0.1) requires: i) reactor mixing angle in
the range \theta_13 = (2 - 20) degrees, in agreement with the experimental
result \theta_13 = (8 - 10) degrees; ii) atmospheric mixing angle in the range
\theta_23 = (16 - 41) degrees, compatible only with current lowest
experimentally allowed values; iii) Dirac phase in the range \delta \simeq
-\pi/2 - \pi/5, with the bulk of the solutions around \delta \simeq -\pi/5 and
such that sign(J_CP)= - sign(\eta_B); iv) neutrino masses m_i normally ordered;
v) lightest neutrino mass in the range m_1 \simeq (15 - 25) meV, corresponding
to \sum_i m_i \simeq (85 - 105) meV; vi) neutrinoless double beta decay
(0\nu\beta\beta) effective neutrino mass m_ee \simeq 0.8 m_1. All together this
set of predictive constraints characterises the solution quite distinctively,
representing a difficultly forgeable, fully testable, signature. In particular,
the condition m_ee \simeq 0.8 m_1 \simeq 15 meV can be tested by cosmological
observations and (ultimately) by 0\nu\beta\beta experiments. We also discuss
different aspects such as theoretical uncertainties, stability under variation
of the involved parameters, form of the orthogonal and RH neutrino mixing
matrices.