We investigate here concept learning from incomplete examples. Our first
purpose is to discuss to what extent logical learning settings have to be
modified in order to cope with data incompleteness. More precisely we are
interested in extending the learning from interpretations setting introduced by
L. De Raedt that extends to relational representations the classical
propositional (or attribute-value) concept learning from examples framework. We
are inspired here by ideas presented by H. Hirsh in a work extending the
Version space inductive paradigm to incomplete data. H. Hirsh proposes to
slightly modify the notion of solution when dealing with incomplete examples: a
solution has to be a hypothesis compatible with all pieces of information
concerning the examples. We identify two main classes of incompleteness. First,
uncertainty deals with our state of knowledge concerning an example. Second,
generalization (or abstraction) deals with what part of the description of the
example is sufficient for the learning purpose. These two main sources of
incompleteness can be mixed up when only part of the useful information is
known. We discuss a general learning setting, referred to as "learning from
possibilities" that formalizes these ideas, then we present a more specific
learning setting, referred to as "assumption-based learning" that cope with
examples which uncertainty can be reduced when considering contextual
information outside of the proper description of the examples. Assumption-based
learning is illustrated on a recent work concerning the prediction of a
consensus secondary structure common to a set of RNA sequences.