In this work we study molecular dynamics simulations of symmetric nuclear
matter using a semi-classical nucleon interaction model. We show that, at
sub-saturation densities and low temperatures, the solutions are
non-homogeneous structures reminiscent of the ``nuclear pasta'' phases expected
in Neutron Star Matter simulations, but shaped by artificial aspects of the
simulations. We explore different geometries for the periodic boundary
conditions imposed on the simulation cell: cube, hexagonal prism and truncated
octahedron. We find that different cells may yield different solutions for the
same physical conditions (i.e. density and temperature). The particular shape
of the solution at a given density can be predicted analytically by energy
minimization. We also show that even if this behavior is due to finite size
effects, it does not mean that it vanishes for very large systems and it
actually is independent of the system size: The system size sets the only
characteristic length scale for the inhomogeneities.
  We then include a screened Coulomb interaction, as a model of Neutron Star
Matter, and perform simulations in the three cell geometries. In this case, the
competition between competing interactions of different range produces the well
known nuclear pasta, with (in most cases) several structures per cell. However,
we find that the results are affected by finite size in different ways
depending on the geometry of the cell. In particular, at the same physical
conditions and system size, the hexagonal prism yields a single structure per
cell while the cubic and truncated octahedron show consistent results with more
than one structure per cell. In this case, the results in every cell are
expected to converge for systems much larger than the characteristic length
scale that arises from the competing interactions.