Electrons in one-dimension display the unusual property of separating their
spin and charge into two independent entities: The first, which derive from
uncharged spin-1/2 electrons, can travel at different velocities when compared
with the second, built from charged spinless electrons. Predicted theoretically
in the early sixties, the spin-charge separation has attracted renewed
attention since the first evidences of experimental observation, with usual
mentions as a possible explanation for high-temperature superconductivity. In
one-dimensional (1D) model systems, the spin-charge separation leads the
frequencies of Friedel oscillations to suffer a 2k_F -- 4k_F crossover, mainly
when dealing with strong correlations, where they are referred to as Wigner
crystal oscillations. In non-magnetized systems, the current density
functionals which are applied to the 1D Hubbard model are not seen to reproduce
this crossover, referring to a more fundamental question: Are the Wigner
crystal oscillations in 1D systems non-interacting v-representable? Or, is
there a spin-independent Kohn-Sham potential which is able to yield spin-charge
separation? Finding an appropriate answer to both questions is our main task
here. By means of exact and DMRG solutions, as well as, a new approach of
exchange-correlation potential, we show the answer to be positive.
Specifically, the v-representable 4k_F oscillations emerge from attractive
interactions mediated by positively charged spinless holes -- the holons -- as
an additional contribution to the repulsive on-site Hubbard interaction.