The quasihole states of several paired states, the Pfaffian, Haldane-Rezayi,
and 331 states, which under certain conditions may describe electrons at
filling factor $\nu=1/2$ or 5/2, are studied, analytically and numerically, in
the spherical geometry, for the Hamiltonians for which the ground states are
known exactly. We also find all the ground states (without quasiparticles) of
these systems in the toroidal geometry. In each case, a complete set of
linearly-independent functions that are energy eigenstates of zero energy is
found explicitly. For fixed positions of the quasiholes, the number of
linearly-independent states is $2^{n-1}$ for the Pfaffian, $2^{2n-3}$ for the
Haldane-Rezayi state; these degeneracies are needed if these systems are to
possess nonabelian statistics, and they agree with predictions based on
conformal field theory. The dimensions of the spaces of states for each number
of quasiholes agree with numerical results for moderate system sizes. The
effects of tunneling and of the Zeeman term are discussed for the 331 and
Haldane-Rezayi states, as well as the relation to Laughlin states of electron
pairs. A model introduced by Ho, which was supposed to connect the 331 and
Pfaffian states, is found to have the same degeneracies of zero-energy states
as the 331 state, except at its Pfaffian point where it is much more highly
degenerate than either the 331 or the Pfaffian. We introduce a modification of
the model which has the degeneracies of the 331 state everywhere including the
Pfaffian point; at the latter point, tunneling reduces the degeneracies to
those of the Pfaffian state. An experimental difference is pointed out between
the Laughlin states of electron pairs and the other paired states, in the
current-voltage response when electrons tunnel into the edge. And there's more.