Identifying causal parameters from observational data is fraught with
subtleties due to the issues of selection bias and confounding. In addition,
more complex questions of interest, such as effects of treatment on the treated
and mediated effects may not always be identified even in data where treatment
assignment is known and under investigator control, or may be identified under
one causal model but not another.
  Increasingly complex effects of interest, coupled with a diversity of causal
models in use resulted in a fragmented view of identification. This
fragmentation makes it unnecessarily difficult to determine if a given
parameter is identified (and in what model), and what assumptions must hold for
this to be the case. This, in turn, complicates the development of estimation
theory and sensitivity analysis procedures.
  In this paper, we give a unifying view of a large class of causal effects of
interest in terms of a hierarchy of interventions, and show that identification
theory for this large class reduces to an identification theory of random
variables under interventions from this hierarchy. Moreover, we show that one
type of intervention in the hierarchy is naturally associated with queries
identified under the Finest Fully Randomized Causally Interpretable Structure
Tree Graph (FFRCISTG) model of Robins (via the extended g-formula), and another
is naturally associated with queries identified under the Non-Parametric
Structural Equation Model with Independent Errors (NPSEM-IE) of Pearl, via a
more general functional we call the edge g-formula.
  Our results motivate the study of estimation theory for the edge g-formula,
since we show it arises both in mediation analysis, and in settings where
treatment assignment has unobserved causes, such as models associated with
Pearl's front-door criterion.