We present interferometric observations of 7 main-sequence and 3 giant stars
with spectral types from B2 to F6 using the PAVO beam combiner at the CHARA
array. We have directly determined the angular diameters for these objects with
an average precision of 2.3%. We have also computed bolometric fluxes using
available photometry in the visible and infrared wavelengths, as well as
space-based ultraviolet spectroscopy. Combined with precise \textit{Hipparcos}
parallaxes, we have derived a set of fundamental stellar properties including
linear radius, luminosity and effective temperature. Fitting the latter to
computed isochrone models, we have inferred masses and ages of the stars. The
effective temperatures obtained are in good agreement (at a 3% level) with
nearly-independent temperature estimations from spectroscopy. They validate
recent sixth-order polynomial (B-V)-$T_\mathrm{eff}$ empirical relations
\citep{Boyajian2012a}, but suggest that a more conservative third-order
solution \citep{vanBelle2009} could adequately describe the
(V-K)-$T_\mathrm{eff}$ relation for main-sequence stars of spectral type A0 and
later. Finally, we have compared mass values obtained combining surface gravity
with inferred stellar radius (\textit{gravity mass}) and as a result of the
comparison of computed luminosity and temperature values with stellar
evolutionary models (\textit{isochrone mass}). The strong discrepancy between
isochrone and gravity mass obtained for one of the observed stars,
$\gamma$\,Lyr, suggests that determination of the stellar atmosphere parameters
should be revised.