Fix a base B and let zeta have the standard exponential distribution; the
distribution of digits of zeta base B is known to be very close to Benford's
Law. If there exists a C such that the distribution of digits of C times the
elements of some set is the same as that of zeta, we say that set exhibits
shifted exponential behavior base B (with a shift of log_B C \bmod 1). Let X_1,
>..., X_N be independent identically distributed random variables. If the X_i's
are drawn from the uniform distribution on [0,L], then as N\to\infty the
distribution of the digits of the differences between adjacent order statistics
converges to shifted exponential behavior (with a shift of \log_B L/N \bmod 1).
By differentiating the cumulative distribution function of the logarithms
modulo 1, applying Poisson Summation and then integrating the resulting
expression, we derive rapidly converging explicit formulas measuring the
deviations from Benford's Law. Fix a delta in (0,1) and choose N independent
random variables from any compactly supported distribution with uniformly
bounded first and second derivatives and a second order Taylor series expansion
at each point. The distribution of digits of any N^\delta consecutive
differences \emph{and} all N-1 normalized differences of the order statistics
exhibit shifted exponential behavior. We derive conditions on the probability
density which determine whether or not the distribution of the digits of all
the un-normalized differences converges to Benford's Law, shifted exponential
behavior, or oscillates between the two, and show that the Pareto distribution
leads to oscillating behavior.