Let $f$ be $\{0,1\}$-valued function over integer $d$-dimensional cube
$\{0,1,...,n-1\}^d$, for $n \geq 2$ and $d \geq 1$. The function $f$ is called
threshold if there exists a hyperplane which separates $0$-valued points from
$1$-valued points. Let $C$ be a class of functions and $f \in C$. A point $x$
is essential for the function $f$ with respect to $C$ if there exists a
function $g \in C$ such that $x$ is unique point on which $f$ differs from $g$.
A set of points $X$ is called teaching for the function $f$ with respect to $C$
if no function in $C \setminus \{f\}$ agrees with $f$ on $X$. It is known that
the minimal teaching set for a threshold function is unique and coincides with
the set of its essentail points. In this paper we study teaching sets of
$k$-threshold functions, i.e. functions that can be represented as a
conjunction of $k$ threshold functions. We reveal connection between essential
points of $k$ threshold functions and essential points of the corresponding
$k$-threshold function. We note that, in general, a $k$-threshold function is
not specified by its essential points and can have more than one minimal
teaching sets. We show that for $d=2$ the number of minimal teaching sets for a
2-threshold function can grow as $\Omega(n^2)$. We also consider the class of
polytopes with vertices in $d$-dimensional cube. Each polytope from this class
can be defined by $k$-threshold function for some $k$. In terms of
$k$-threshold functions we prove that a polytope with vertices in
$d$-dimensional cube has the unique minimal teaching set which is equal to the
set of its essential points. For $d=2$ we describe structure of minimal
teaching set for a polytope and show that cardinality of this set is either
$\Theta(n^2)$ or $O(n)$ and depends on perimeter and minimum angle of the
polytope.