Strongly Doppler-shifted Stokes $V$ profiles have been detected in the quiet
Sun with the IMaX instrument on-board the SUNRISE stratospheric balloon-borne
telescope. High velocities are required in order to produce such signals, hence
these events have been interpreted as jets, although other sources are also
possible. We aim to characterize the variation of the main properties of these
events (occurrence rate, lifetime, size and velocities) with their position on
the solar disk between disk centre and the solar limb. These events have been
identified in Sunrise/IMaX data according to the same objective criteria at all
available positions on the solar disk. Their properties were determined using
standard techniques. Our study yielded a number of new insights into this
phenomenon. Most importantly, the number density of these events is independent
of the heliocentric angle, i.e. the investigated supersonic flows are nearly
isotropically distributed. Size and lifetime are also nearly independent of the
heliocentric angle, while their intensity contrast increases towards the solar
limb. The Stokes $V$ jets are associated with upflow velocities deduced from
Stokes $I$, which are stronger towards the limb. Their intensity decreases with
time, while their line-of-sight (LOS) velocity does not display a clear
temporal evolution. Their association with linear polarization signals
decreases towards the limb. The density of events appears to be independent of
heliocentric angle, establishing that they are directed nearly randomly. If
these events are jets triggered by magnetic reconnection between emerging
magnetic flux and the ambient field, then our results suggest that there is no
preferred geometry for the reconnection process.