The discovery and exploration of Supersymmetry in a model-independent fashion
will be a daunting task due to the large number of soft-breaking parameters in
the MSSM. In this paper, we explore the capability of the ATLAS detector at the
LHC ($\sqrt s=14$ TeV, 1 fb$^{-1}$) to find SUSY within the 19-dimensional
pMSSM subspace of the MSSM using their standard transverse missing energy and
long-lived particle searches that were essentially designed for mSUGRA. To this
end, we employ a set of $\sim 71$k previously generated model points in the
19-dimensional parameter space that satisfy all of the existing experimental
and theoretical constraints. Employing ATLAS-generated SM backgrounds and
following their approach in each of 11 missing energy analyses as closely as
possible, we explore all of these $71$k model points for a possible SUSY
signal. To test our analysis procedure, we first verify that we faithfully
reproduce the published ATLAS results for the signal distributions for their
benchmark mSUGRA model points. We then show that, requiring all sparticle
masses to lie below 1(3) TeV, almost all(two-thirds) of the pMSSM model points
are discovered with a significance $S>5$ in at least one of these 11 analyses
assuming a 50\% systematic error on the SM background. If this systematic error
can be reduced to only 20\% then this parameter space coverage is increased.
These results are indicative that the ATLAS SUSY search strategy is robust
under a broad class of Supersymmetric models. We then explore in detail the
properties of the kinematically accessible model points which remain
unobservable by these search analyses in order to ascertain problematic cases
which may arise in general SUSY searches.