A concept of "critical" simplification was proposed by Yablonsky and Lazman
in 1996 for the oxidation of carbon monoxide over a platinum catalyst using a
Langmuir-Hinshelwood mechanism. The main observation was a simplification of
the mechanism at ignition and extinction points. The critical simplification is
an example of a much more general phenomenon that we call \emph{a bifurcational
parametric simplification}. Ignition and extinction points are points of
equilibrium multiplicity bifurcations, i.e., they are points of a corresponding
bifurcation set for parameters.
  Any bifurcation produces a dependence between system parameters. This is a
mathematical explanation and/or justification of the "parametric
simplification". It leads us to a conjecture that "maximal bifurcational
parametric simplification" corresponds to the "maximal bifurcation complexity."
  This conjecture can have practical applications for experimental study,
because at points of "maximal bifurcation complexity" the number of independent
system parameters is minimal and all other parameters can be evaluated
analytically or numerically.
  We illustrate this method by the case of the simplest possible bifurcation,
that is a multiplicity bifurcation of equilibrium and we apply this analysis to
the Langmuir mechanism. Our analytical study is based on a coordinate-free
version of the method of invariant manifolds (proposed recently in 2006 ). As a
result we obtain a more accurate description of the "critical (parametric)
simplifications."
  With the help of the "bifurcational parametric simplification" kinetic
mechanisms and reaction rate parameters may be readily identified from a
monoparametric experiment (reaction rate vs. reaction parameter).