DevOps is a trend towards a tighter integration between development (Dev) and
operations (Ops) teams. The need for such an integration is driven by the
requirement to continuously adapt enterprise applications (EAs) to changes in
the business environment. As of today, DevOps concepts have been primarily
introduced to ensure a constant flow of features and bug fixes into new
releases from a functional perspective. In order to integrate a non-functional
perspective into these DevOps concepts this report focuses on tools,
activities, and processes to ensure one of the most important quality
attributes of a software system, namely performance.
  Performance describes system properties concerning its timeliness and use of
resources. Common metrics are response time, throughput, and resource
utilization. Performance goals for EAs are typically defined by setting upper
and/or lower bounds for these metrics and specific business transactions. In
order to ensure that such performance goals can be met, several activities are
required during development and operation of these systems as well as during
the transition from Dev to Ops. Activities during development are typically
summarized by the term Software Performance Engineering (SPE), whereas
activities during operations are called Application Performance Management
(APM). SPE and APM were historically tackled independently from each other, but
the newly emerging DevOps concepts require and enable a tighter integration
between both activity streams. This report presents existing solutions to
support this integration as well as open research challenges in this area.