We present a vector space approach to proving identities on multiple theta
functions by verifying a finite number of simpler relations which are often
verifiable by using Jacobi's triple product identity. Consider multiple theta
function identities of the form $\sum_{k=1}^{m}c_k \theta_k(a_1,a_2,\ldots,
a_r)=0$, where $r,m\geq 2$, $\theta_k =\prod_{i=1}^{n_k}
f_{k,i}(a_1,a_2,\ldots, a_r)$, $\ 1< n_k\le r$ and each $f_{k,i}$ is of form
$(p_{k,i},q^{\beta_{k,i}}/p_{k,i};q^{\beta_{k,i}})_\infty$ with $\beta_{k,i}$
being a positive integer and $p_{k,i}$ being a monomial in $a_1, a_2, \ldots,
a_r$ and $q$. For such an identity, $\theta_1, \theta_2, \ldots, \theta_m$
satisfy the same set of linearly independent contiguous relations. Let $W$ be
the set of exponent vectors of $(a_1, a_2, \ldots, a_r)$ in the contiguous
relations. We consider the case when the exponent vectors of
$(a_1,a_2,\ldots,a_r)$ in $p_{k,1}, p_{k,2},\ldots, p_{k,n_k}$ are linearly
independent for any $k$. Let $V_C$ denote the vector space spanned by multiple
theta functions which satisfy the contiguous relations associated with the
vectors in $W$. Using Stanley's lemma on the fundamental parallelepiped, we
find an upper bound of the dimension of $V_C$. This implies that a multiple
theta function identity may be reduced to a finite number of simpler relations.
Many classical multiple theta function identities fall into this framework,
such as Bailey's generalization of the quintuple product identity, the extended
Riemann identity and Riemann's addition formula.