The smoothed analysis of algorithms is concerned with the expected running
time of an algorithm under slight random perturbations of arbitrary inputs.
Spielman and Teng proved that the shadow-vertex simplex method has polynomial
smoothed complexity. On a slight random perturbation of an arbitrary linear
program, the simplex method finds the solution after a walk on polytope(s) with
expected length polynomial in the number of constraints n, the number of
variables d and the inverse standard deviation of the perturbation 1/sigma.
  We show that the length of walk in the simplex method is actually
polylogarithmic in the number of constraints n. Spielman-Teng's bound on the
walk was O(n^{86} d^{55} sigma^{-30}), up to logarithmic factors. We improve
this to O(log^7 n (d^9 + d^3 \s^{-4})). This shows that the tight Hirsch
conjecture n-d on the length of walk on polytopes is not a limitation for the
smoothed Linear Programming. Random perturbations create short paths between
vertices.
  We propose a randomized phase-I for solving arbitrary linear programs, which
is of independent interest. Instead of finding a vertex of a feasible set, we
add a vertex at random to the feasible set. This does not affect the solution
of the linear program with constant probability. This overcomes one of the
major difficulties of smoothed analysis of the simplex method -- one can now
statistically decouple the walk from the smoothed linear program. This yields a
much better reduction of the smoothed complexity to a geometric quantity -- the
size of planar sections of random polytopes. We also improve upon the known
estimates for that size, showing that it is polylogarithmic in the number of
vertices.