Network formation of associative semiflexible fibers and mixtures of fibers
and colloidal particles is simulated for the Johnson-Kendall-Roberts (JKR)
model of elastic contacts, and a phase diagram in terms of particle elasticity
and surface energy is presented. When fibers self-assemble they form a network
for sufficiently large fiber-solvent surface energy. If the surface energy is
above the value where single particles crystallize the adhesion forces drive
diffusion-limited aggregation. Two mechanisms contribute to coarsening:
non-associated chains joining existing bundles, and fiber bundles merging.
Coarsening stops when the length of the network connections is roughly the
persistence length, independent of surface energy.
  If the surface energy is below the value where single particles crystallize,
a network can still be formed but at a much slower (reaction limited) rate.
Loose (liquid-like) assemblies between chains form when they happen to run
more-or-less parallel. These assemblies grow by diffusion and aggregation and
form a loose network, which sets in micro-phase separation, i.e. syneresis.
Only when the clusters crystallize, the coarsening process stops. In this case
the length of the network connections is larger than the persistence length of
a single chain, and depends on the value of the surface energy. All networks of
semiflexible homopolymers in this study show syneresis. Mixtures of fibers and
colloid particles also form fiber bundle networks, but by choosing the colloid
volume fraction sufficiently low, swelling gels are obtained. Applications of
this model are in biological systems where fibers self-assemble into cell walls
and bone tissue.