Classifications on the DDO system are given for an additional 231 host
galaxies of supernovae that have been discovered during the course of the Lick
Observatory Supernova Search with the Katzman Automatic Imaging Telescope
(KAIT). This brings the total number of hosts of supernovae discovered (or
independently rediscovered) by KAIT, which have so far been classified on a
homogeneous system, to 408. The probability that SNe Ia and SNe II have a
different distribution of host galaxy Hubble types is found to be 99.7%. A
significant difference is also found between the distributions of the host
galaxies of SNe Ia and of SNe Ibc (defined here to include SNe Ib, Ib/c, and
Ic). However, no significant difference is detected between the frequency
distributions of the host galaxies of SNe II and SNe IIn. This suggests that
SNe IIn are generally not SNe Ia embedded in circumstellar material that are
masquerading as SNe II. Furthermore, no significant difference is found between
the distribution of the Hubble types of the hosts of SNe Ibc and of SNe II.
Additionally, SNe II-P and SNe II-L are found to occur among similar stellar
populations. The ratio of the number of SNe Ia-pec to normal SNe Ia appears to
be higher in early-type galaxies than it is in galaxies of later morphological
types. This suggests that the ancestors of SNe Ia-pec may differ systematically
in age or composition from the progenitors of normal SNe Ia. Unexpectedly, five
SNe of Types Ib/c, II, and IIn (all of which are thought to have massive
progenitors) are found in host galaxies that are nominally classified as types
E and S0. However, in each case the galaxy classification is uncertain, or
newly inspected images show evidence suggesting a later classification
(abridged) ...