We study the sensitivity to neutrino masses of a Galactic supernova neutrino
signal as could be measured with the detectors presently in operation and with
future large volume water \v{C}erencov and scintillator detectors. The analysis
uses the full statistics of neutrino events. The method proposed uses the
principles of Bayesian inference reasoning and has shown a remarkably
independence of astrophysical assumptions. We show that, after accounting for
the uncertainties in the detailed astrophysical description of the neutrino
signal and taking into account the effects of neutrino oscillations in the
supernova mantle, detectors presently in operation can have enough sensitivity
to reveal a neutrino mass (or to set upper limits) at the level of 1 eV. This
is sensibly better than present results from tritium $\beta$-decay experiments,
competitive with the most conservative limits from neutrinoless double
$\beta$-decay and less precise but remarkably less dependent from prior
assumptions than cosmological measurements. Future megaton water \v{C}erencov
detectors and large volume scintillator detectors will allow for about a factor
of two improvement in the sensitivity; however, they will not be competitive
with the next generation of tritium $\beta$-decay and neutrinoless double
$\beta$-decay experiments. Using the codes developed to perform the generation
of synthetic supernova signals and their analysis we created a computer
package, SUNG (SUpernova Neutrino Generation tool,
http://urania.udea.edu.co/sungweb), aimed to offer a general purpose solution
to perform calculations in supernova neutrino studies.