In dynamical percolation, the status of every bond is refreshed according to
an independent Poisson clock. For graphs which do not percolate at criticality,
the dynamical sensitivity of this property was analyzed extensively in the last
decade. Here we focus on graphs which percolate at criticality, and investigate
the dynamical sensitivity of the infinite cluster. We first give two examples
of bounded degree graphs, one which percolates for all times at criticality and
one which has exceptional times of nonpercolation. We then make a nearly
complete analysis of this question for spherically symmetric trees with
spherically symmetric edge probabilities bounded away from 0 and 1. One
interesting regime occurs when the expected number of vertices at the nth level
that connect to the root at a fixed time is of order n(\log n)^\alpha. R. Lyons
(1990) showed that at a fixed time, there is an infinite cluster a.s. if and
only if \alpha >1. We prove that the probability that there is an infinite
cluster at all times is 1 if \alpha > 2, while this probability is 0 if
1<\alpha \le 2. Within the regime where a.s. there is an infinite cluster at
all times, there is yet another type of ``phase transition'' in the behavior of
the process: if the expected number of vertices at the nth level connecting to
the root at a fixed time is of order n^\theta with \theta > 2, then the number
of connected components of the set of times in [0,1] at which the root does not
percolate is finite a.s., while if 1<\theta < 2, then the number of such
components is infinite with positive probability.