The inverse Compton catastrophe is defined as a dramatic rise in the
luminosity of inverse Compton scattered photons. It is described by a
non-linear loop of radiative processes that sets in for high values of the
electron compactness and is responsible for the efficient transfer of energy
from electrons to photons, predominantly through inverse Compton scatterings.
We search for the conditions that drive a magnetized non-thermal source to the
inverse Compton catastrophe regime and study its multi-wavelength (MW) photon
spectrum. We develop a generic analytical framework and use numerical
calculations as a backup to the analytical predictions. We find that the
escaping radiation from a source in the Compton catastrophe regime bears some
unique features. The MW photon spectrum is a broken power law with a break at
$\sim m_e c^2$ due to the onset of the Klein-Nishina suppression. The spectral
index below the break energy depends on the electron and magnetic compactnesses
logarithmically, while it is independent of the electron power-law index ($s$).
The maximum radiating power emerges typically in the $\gamma$-ray regime, at
energies $\sim m_e c^2$ ($\sim \gamma_{\max} m_e c^2$ ) for $s>2$ ($s\lesssim
2$), where $\gamma_{\max}$ is the maximum Lorentz factor of the injected
electron distribution. We apply the principles of the inverse Compton
catastrophe to blazars and $\gamma$-ray bursts using the analytical framework
we developed, and show how these can be used to impose robust constraints on
the source parameters.