From a purely none-general relativistic standpoint, we solve the empty space
Poisson equation ($\nabla^{2}\Phi=0$) for an azimuthally symmetric setting,
i.e., for a spinning gravitational system like the Sun. We seek the general
solution of the form $\Phi=\Phi(r,\theta)$. This general solution is
constrained such that in the zeroth order approximation it reduces to Newton's
well known inverse square law of gravitation. For this general solution, it is
seen that it has implications on the orbits of test bodies in the gravitational
field of this spinning body. We show that to second order approximation, this
azimuthally symmetric gravitational field is capable of explaining at least two
things (1) the observed perihelion shift of solar planets (2) that the mean
Earth-Sun distance must be increasing -- this resonates with the observations
of two independent groups of astronomers (Krasinsky & Brumberg 2004; Standish
2005) who have measured that the mean Earth-Sun distance must be increasing at
a rate of about $7.0\pm0.2 m/cy$ (Standish 2005) to $15.0\pm0.3 m/cy$
(Krasinsky & Brumberg 2004). In-principle, we are able to explain this result
as a consequence of loss of orbital angular momentum -- this loss of orbital
angular momentum is a direct prediction of the theory. Further, we show that
the theory is able to explain at a satisfactory level the observed secular
increase Earth Year ($1.70\pm0.05 ms/yr$; Miura et al. 2009}). Furthermore, we
show that the theory makes a significant and testable prediction to the effect
that the period of the solar spin must be decreasing at a rate of at least
$8.00\pm2.00 s/cy$.