We compare multi-wavelength SFR indicators out to z~3 in GOODS-South. Our
analysis uniquely combines U-to-8um photometry from FIREWORKS, MIPS 24um and
PACS 70, 100, and 160um photometry from the PEP survey, and Ha spectroscopy
from the SINS survey. We describe a set of conversions that lead to a
continuity across SFR indicators. A luminosity-independent conversion from 24um
to total infrared luminosity yields estimates of LIR that are in the median
consistent with the LIR derived from PACS photometry, albeit with significant
scatter. Dust correction methods perform well at low to intermediate levels of
star formation. They fail to recover the total amount of star formation in
systems with large SFR_IR/SFR_UV ratios, typically occuring at the highest SFRs
(SFR_UV+IR \gtrsim 100 Msun/yr) and redshifts (z \gtrsim 2.5) probed. Finally,
we confirm that Ha-based SFRs at 1.5<z<2.6 are consistent with SFR_SED and
SFR_UV+IR provided extra attenuation towards HII regions is taken into account
(Av,neb = Av,continuum / 0.44). With the cross-calibrated SFR indicators in
hand, we perform a consistency check on the star formation histories inferred
from SED modeling. We compare the observed SFR-M relations and mass functions
at a range of redshifts to equivalents that are computed by evolving lower
redshift galaxies backwards in time. We find evidence for underestimated
stellar ages when no stringent constraints on formation epoch are applied. We
demonstrate how resolved SED modeling, or alternatively deep UV data, may help
to overcome this bias. The age bias is most severe for galaxies with young
stellar populations, and reduces towards older systems. Finally, our analysis
suggests that SFHs typically vary on timescales that are long (at least several
100 Myr) compared to the galaxies' dynamical time.