This paper develops a simplified set of models describing asexual and sexual
replication in unicel- lular diploid organisms. The models assume organisms
whose genomes consist of two chromosomes, where each chromosome is assumed to
be functional if it is equal to some master sequence $ \sigma_0 $, and
non-functional otherwise. The first-order growth rate constant, or fitness, of
an organism, is determined by whether it has zero, one, or two functional
chromosomes in its genome. For a population replicating asexually, a given cell
replicates both of its chromosomes, and splits its genetic material evenly
between the two cells. For a population replicating sexually, a given cell
first divides into two haploids, which enter a haploid pool, fuse into
diploids, and then divide via the normal mitotic process. Haploid fusion is
modeled as a second-order rate process. When the cost for sex is small, as
measured by the ratio of the characteristic haploid fusion time to the
characteristic growth time, we find that sexual replication with random haploid
fusion leads to a greater mean fitness for the population than a purely asexual
strategy. However, independently of the cost for sex, we find that sexual
replication with a selective mating strategy leads to a higher mean fitness
than the random mating strategy. This result is based on the assumption that a
selective mating strategy does not have any additional time or energy costs
over the random mating strategy, an assumption that is discussed in the paper.
The results of this paper are consistent with previous studies suggesting that
sex is favored at intermediate mutation rates, for slowly replicating
organisms, and at high population densities.