Dirichlet process mixtures can be useful models of multivariate categorical
data and effective tools for multiple imputation of missing categorical values.
In some contexts, however, these models can fit certain variables well at the
expense of others in ways beyond the analyst's control. For example, when the
data include some variables with non-trivial amounts of missing values, the
mixture model may fit the marginal distributions of the nearly and fully
complete variables at the expense of the variables with high fractions of
missing data. Motivated by this setting, we present a Dirichlet process mixture
model for mixed ordinal and nominal data that allows analysts to split
variables into two groups: focus variables and remainder variables. The model
uses three sets of clusters, one set for ordinal focus variables, one for
nominal focus variables, and one for all remainder variables. The model uses a
multivariate ordered probit specification for the ordinal variables and
independent multinomial kernels for the nominal variables. The three sets of
clusters are linked using an infinite tensor factorization prior, as well as
via dependence of the means of the latent continuous focus variables on the
remainder variables. This effectively specifies a rich, complex model for the
focus variables and a simpler model for remainder variables, yet still
potentially captures associations among the variables. In the multiple
imputation context, focus variables include key variables with high rates of
missing values, and remainder variables include variables without much missing
data. Using simulations, we illustrate advantages and limitations of using
focused clustering compared to mixture models that do not distinguish
variables. We apply the model to handle missing values in an analysis of the
2012 American National Election Study.