High-dimensional, large-sample astrophysical databases of galaxy clusters,
such as the Chandra Deep Field South COMBO-17 database, provide measurements on
many variables for thousands of galaxies and a range of redshifts. Current
understanding of galaxy formation and evolution rests sensitively on
relationships between different astrophysical variables; hence an ability to
detect and verify associations or correlations between variables is important
in astrophysical research. In this paper, we apply a recently defined
statistical measure called the distance correlation coefficient which can be
used to identify new associations and correlations between astrophysical
variables. The distance correlation coefficient applies to variables of any
dimension; it can be used to determine smaller sets of variables that provide
equivalent astrophysical information; it is zero only when variables are
independent; and it is capable of detecting nonlinear associations that are
undetectable by the classical Pearson correlation coefficient. Hence, the
distance correlation coefficient provides more information than the Pearson
coefficient. We analyze numerous pairs of variables in the COMBO-17 database
with the distance correlation method and with the maximal information
coefficient. We show that the Pearson coefficient can be estimated with higher
accuracy from the corresponding distance correlation coefficient than from the
maximal information coefficient. For given values of the Pearson coefficient,
the distance correlation method has a greater ability than the maximal
information coefficient to resolve astrophysical data into highly concentrated
V-shapes, which enhances classification and pattern identification. These
results are observed over a range of redshifts beyond the local universe and
for galaxies from elliptical to spiral.