Connections are explored between exclusive and inclusive electron scattering
within the framework of the relativistic plane-wave impulse approximation,
beginning with an analysis of the model-independent kinematical constraints to
be found in the missing energy--missing momentum plane. From the interplay
between these constraints and the spectral function basic features of the
exclusive and inclusive nuclear responses are seen to arise. In particular, the
responses of the relativistic Fermi gas and of a specific hybrid model with
confined nucleons in the initial state are compared in this work. As expected,
the exclusive responses are significantly different in the two models, whereas
the inclusive ones are rather similar. By extending previous work on the
relativistic Fermi gas, a reduced response is introduced for the hybrid model
such that it fulfills the Coulomb and the higher-power energy-weighted sum
rules. While incorporating specific classes of off-shellness for the struck
nucleons, it is found that the reducing factor required is largely
model-independent and, as such, yields a reduced response that is useful for
extracting the Coulomb sum rule from experimental data. Finally, guided by the
difference between the energy-weighted sum rules of the two models, a version
of the relativistic Fermi gas is devised which has the 0$^{\rm th}$, 1$^{\rm
st}$ and 2$^{\rm nd}$ moments of the charge response which agree rather well
with those of the hybrid model: this version thus incorporates {\em a priori}
the binding and confinement effects of the stuck nucleons while retaining the
simplicity of the original Fermi gas.