We discuss the results from the combined IRAC and MIPS c2d Spitzer Legacy
observations of the Serpens star-forming region. In particular we present a set
of criteria for isolating bona fide young stellar objects, YSO's, from the
extensive background contamination by extra-galactic objects. We then discuss
the properties of the resulting high confidence set of YSO's. We find 235 such
objects in the 0.85 deg^2 field that was covered with both IRAC and MIPS. An
additional set of 51 lower confidence YSO's outside this area is identified
from the MIPS data combined with 2MASS photometry. We describe two sets of
results, color-color diagrams to compare our observed source properties with
those of theoretical models for star/disk/envelope systems and our own modeling
of the subset of our objects that appear to be star+disks. These objects
exhibit a very wide range of disk properties, from many that can be fit with
actively accreting disks to some with both passive disks and even possibly
debris disks. We find that the luminosity function of YSO's in Serpens extends
down to at least a few x .001 Lsun or lower for an assumed distance of 260 pc.
The lower limit may be set by our inability to distinguish YSO's from
extra-galactic sources more than by the lack of YSO's at very low luminosities.
A spatial clustering analysis shows that the nominally less-evolved YSO's are
more highly clustered than the later stages and that the background
extra-galactic population can be fit by the same two-point correlation function
as seen in other extra-galactic studies. We also present a table of matches
between several previous infrared and X-ray studies of the Serpens YSO
population and our Spitzer data set.