The advent of the next generation of gamma-ray experiments, led by GLAST,
AGILE, INTEGRAL and a host of atmospheric \v{C}erenkov telescopes coming on
line in the next few years, will enable ground-breaking discoveries relating to
the presently enigmatic set of EGRET/CGRO UID galactic sources that have yet to
find definitive identifications. Pulsars are principal candidates for such
sources, and many are expected to be detected by GLAST, some that are
radio-selected, like most of the present EGRET/Comptel pulsars, and perhaps
even more that are detected via independent pulsation searches. At this
juncture, it is salient to outline the principal predictions of pulsar models
that might aid identification of gamma-ray sources, and moreover propel
subsequent interpretation of their properties. This review summarizes relevant
characteristics of the polar cap model, emphasizing where possible distinctions
from the competing outer gap model. Foremost among these considerations are the
hard X-ray to gamma-ray spectral shape, high energy cutoffs and pulse profiles,
and how these characteristics generally depend on pulsar period and period
derivative, as well as observational viewing angle. The polar cap model
exhibits definitive signatures that will be readily tested by the detections of
GLAST and other experiments, thereby establishing cogent observational
diagnostics. The paper focuses on different classes of pulsars that might
define agendas and parameter regimes for blind gamma-ray pulsation searches;
examples include the highly-magnetized ones that are currently quite topical in
astrophysics.