[Abridged] We have analysed the mass and velocity distributions of two
samples of relaxed elliptical-like-objects (ELOs) identified, at z=0, in a set
of self-consistent hydrodynamical simulations operating in the context of a
concordance cosmological model. Our analysis shows that they are embedded in
extended, massive dark matter haloes, and they also have an extended corona of
hot diffuse gas. Dark matter haloes have experienced adiabatic contraction
along their assembly process. The relative ELO dark- to bright-mass content and
space distributions show broken homology, and they are consistent with
observational results on the dark matter fraction at the central regions, as
well as on the gradients of the mass-to-light ratio profiles for boxy
ellipticals, as a function of their stellar masses. These results indicate that
massive ellipticals miss stars at their central regions, as compared with less
massive ones. Our simulations indicate that these missing baryons could be
found beyond the virial radii as a hot, diffuse plasma. The projected stellar
mass profiles of our ELOs can be well fit by the S\'ersic (1968) formula.
Parameters of these fits reproduce observational correlations of the shape
parameter with size, luminosity and velocity dispersion. The total mass density
profiles show a power-law behaviour over a large r/r_{vir} interval, consistent
with data on massive lens ellipticals at shorter radii. The velocity dispersion
profiles show kinematical segregation, with no systematic mass dependence and a
positive anisotropy, roughly independent of the radial distance outside the
central regions. The consistency with observations strongly suggests that they
could also describe important intrinsic characteristics of real ellipticals, as
well as some of their properties recently inferred from observational data.