A simultaneous analysis (in the model-independent approach) of the $\pi\pi$
scattering (from the threshold to 1.9 GeV) and of the $\pi\pi\to K\overline{K}$
process (from the threshold to $\sim$ 1.46 GeV) is carried out in channel with
$I^GJ^{PC}=0^+0^{++}$. The existence of the $f_0(665)$ state with properies of
the $\sigma$-meson is proved. An indication for the glueball nature of the
$f_0(1500)$ is obtained. A minimum scenario of the simultaneous description of
the processes $\pi\pi\to\pi\pi,K\overline{K}$ does without the ${f_0}(1370)$
resonance. A version including this state is also considered. In this case the
${f_0}(1370)$ resonance has the dominant $s{\bar s}$ component (the ratio of
its coupling constant with the $\pi\pi$ channel to the one with the
$K\overline{K}$ channel is 0.12). The coupling constants of the observed states
with the $\pi\pi$ and $K\overline{K}$ systems and the $\pi\pi$ and
$K\overline{K}$ scattering lengths are obtained. A parameterless description of
the $\pi\pi$ background is given by allowance for the left-hand branch-point in
the uniformizing variable. On the basis of this and of the fact that all the
adjusted parameters for the $\pi\pi$ scattering are only the positions of poles
describing resonances, it is concluded that our model-independent approach is a
valuable tool for studying the realization schemes of chiral symmetry. The
existence of the $f_0(665)$ state and the obtained $\pi\pi$-scattering length
($a_0^0\approx 0.27 m_{\pi^+}^{-1}$) seem to suggest the linear realization of
chiral symmetry.