A new numerical scheme to solve the Einstein field equations based upon the
generalized harmonic decomposition of the Ricci tensor is introduced. The
source functions driving the wave equations that define generalized harmonic
coordinates are treated as independent functions, and encode the coordinate
freedom of solutions. Techniques are discussed to impose particular gauge
conditions through a specification of the source functions. A 3D, free
evolution, finite difference code implementing this system of equations with a
scalar field matter source is described. The second-order-in-space-and-time
partial differential equations are discretized directly without the use first
order auxiliary terms, limiting the number of independent functions to
fifteen--ten metric quantities, four source functions and the scalar field.
This also limits the number of constraint equations, which can only be enforced
to within truncation error in a numerical free evolution, to four. The
coordinate system is compactified to spatial infinity in order to impose
physically motivated, constraint-preserving outer boundary conditions. A
variant of the Cartoon method for efficiently simulating axisymmetric
spacetimes with a Cartesian code is described that does not use interpolation,
and is easier to incorporate into existing adaptive mesh refinement packages.
Preliminary test simulations of vacuum black hole evolution and black hole
formation via scalar field collapse are described, suggesting that this method
may be useful for studying many spacetimes of interest.