We present the analysis of the first set of low-redshift Type Ia supernovae
(SNe Ia) by the Carnegie Supernova Project. Well-sampled, high-precision
optical (ugriBV) and near-infrared (NIR; YJHKs) light curves obtained in a
well-understood photometric system are used to provide light-curve parameters,
and ugriBVYJH template light curves. The intrinsic colors at maximum light are
calibrated to compute optical--NIR color excesses for the full sample, thus
allowing the properties of the reddening law in the host galaxies to be
studied. A low value of Rv~1.7, is derived when using the entire sample of SNe.
However, when the two highly reddened SNe in the sample are excluded, a value
Galactic standard of Rv~3.2 is obtained. The colors of these two events are
well matched by a reddening model due to circumstellar dust. The peak
luminosities are calibrated using a two-parameter linear fit to the decline
rates and the colors, or alternatively, the color excesses. In both cases,
dispersions in absolute magnitude of 0.12--0.16 mag are obtained, depending on
the filter-color combination. In contrast to the results obtained from color
excesses, these fits give Rv~1--2, even when the two highly reddened SNe are
excluded. This discrepancy suggests that, beyond the "normal" interstellar
reddening produced in the host galaxies, there is an intrinsic dispersion in
the colors of SNe Ia which is correlated with luminosity but independent of the
decline rate. Finally, a Hubble diagram is produced by combining the results of
the fits for each filter. The resulting scatter of 0.12 mag appears to be
limited by peculiar velocities as evidenced by the strong correlation between
the distance-modulus residuals among the different filters. The implication is
that the actual precision of SN Ia distances is 3--4%.