Point-ion models have been extensively used to determine "hole numbers" at
copper and oxygen sites in high-temperature superconducting cuprate compounds
from measured nuclear quadrupole frequencies. The present study assesses the
reliability of point-ion models to predict electric field gradients accurately
and also the implicit assumption that the values can be calculated from the
"holes" and not the total electronic structure. First-principles cluster
calculations using basis sets centred on the nuclei have enabled the
determination of the charge and spin density distribution in the CuO2-plane.
The contributions to the electric field gradients and the magnetic hyperfine
couplings are analysed in detail. In particular they are partitioned into
regions in an attempt to find a correlation with the most commonly used
point-ion model, the Sternheimer equation which depends on the two parameters R
and gamma. Our most optimistic objective was to find expressions for these
parameters, which would improve our understanding of them, but although
estimates of the R parameter were encouraging the method used to obtain the
gamma parameter indicate that the two parameters may not be independent. The
problem seems to stem from the covalently bonded nature of the CuO2-planes in
these structures which severely questions using the Sternheimer equation for
such crystals, since its derivation is heavily reliant on the application of
perturbation theory to predominantly ionic structures. Furthermore it is shown
that the complementary contributions of electrons and holes in an isolated ion
cannot be applied to estimates of electric field gradients at copper and oxygen
nuclei in cuprates.