With modern technology development, functional data are being observed
frequently in many scientific fields. A popular method for analyzing such
functional data is ``smoothing first, then estimation.'' That is, statistical
inference such as estimation and hypothesis testing about functional data is
conducted based on the substitution of the underlying individual functions by
their reconstructions obtained by one smoothing technique or another. However,
little is known about this substitution effect on functional data analysis. In
this paper this problem is investigated when the local polynomial kernel (LPK)
smoothing technique is used for individual function reconstructions. We find
that under some mild conditions, the substitution effect can be ignored
asymptotically. Based on this, we construct LPK reconstruction-based estimators
for the mean, covariance and noise variance functions of a functional data set
and derive their asymptotics. We also propose a GCV rule for selecting good
bandwidths for the LPK reconstructions. When the mean function also depends on
some time-independent covariates, we consider a functional linear model where
the mean function is linearly related to the covariates but the covariate
effects are functions of time. The LPK reconstruction-based estimators for the
covariate effects and the covariance function are also constructed and their
asymptotics are derived. Moreover, we propose a $L^2$-norm-based global test
statistic for a general hypothesis testing problem about the covariate effects
and derive its asymptotic random expression. The effect of the bandwidths
selected by the proposed GCV rule on the accuracy of the LPK reconstructions
and the mean function estimator is investigated via a simulation study. The
proposed methodologies are illustrated via an application to a real functional
data set collected in climatology.