Most of the work on query evaluation in probabilistic databases has focused
on the simple tuple-independent data model, where tuples are independent random
events. Several efficient query evaluation techniques exists in this setting,
such as safe plans, algorithms based on OBDDs, tree-decomposition and a variety
of approximation algorithms. However, complex data analytics tasks often
require complex correlations, and query evaluation then is significantly more
expensive, or more restrictive. In this paper, we propose MVDB as a framework
both for representing complex correlations and for efficient query evaluation.
An MVDB specifies correlations by views, called MarkoViews, on the
probabilistic relations and declaring the weights of the view's outputs. An
MVDB is a (very large) Markov Logic Network. We make two sets of contributions.
First, we show that query evaluation on an MVDB is equivalent to evaluating a
Union of Conjunctive Query(UCQ) over a tuple-independent database. The
translation is exact (thus allowing the techniques developed for tuple
independent databases to be carried over to MVDB), yet it is novel and quite
non-obvious (some resulting probabilities may be negative!). This translation
in itself though may not lead to much gain since the translated query gets
complicated as we try to capture more correlations. Our second contribution is
to propose a new query evaluation strategy that exploits offline compilation to
speed up online query evaluation. Here we utilize and extend our prior work on
compilation of UCQ. We validate experimentally our techniques on a large
probabilistic database with MarkoViews inferred from the DBLP data.