In this article we first outline the mounting evidence that a significant
fraction of the ionizing photons emitted by OB stars within HII regions escape
from their immediate surroundings and explain how an HII region structure
containing high density contrast in homogeneities facilitates this escape. Next
we describe sets of models containing inhomogeneities which are used to predict
tracks in the commonly used diagnostic diagrams (based on ratios of emission
lines) whose only independent variable is the photon escape fraction, xi. We
show that the tracks produced by the models in two of the most cited of these
diagrams conform well to the distribution of observed data points, with the
models containing optically thick inhomogeneities ("CLUMPY" models) yielding
somewhat better agreement than those with optically thin inhomogeneities ("FF"
models). We show how variations in the ionization parameter U, derived from
emission line ratios, could be due to photon escape. Using a rather wide range
of assumptions about the filling factor of dense clumps we find, for a selected
set of regions observed in M51 photon escape fraction ranging between 30% and
50%. We show, using oxygen as the test element, that models with different
assumptions about the gas inhomogeneity will give variations in the abundance
values derived from diagnostic diagrams, but do not claim here to have a fully
developed set of diagnostic tools to improve abundance determinations made in
this way. We finally propose a combination of line ratios with the absolute
Halpha luminosity of a given HII region, which allows us to determine the
photon escape fraction, and hence resolve the degeneracy between U and xi.