Complex, non-additive genetic interactions are common and can be critical in
determining phenotypes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and similar
statistical studies of linkage data, however, assume additive models of gene
interactions in looking for genotype-phenotype associations. These statistical
methods view the compound effects of multiple genes on a phenotype as a sum of
partial influences of each individual gene and can often miss a substantial
part of the heritable effect. Such methods do not use any biological knowledge
about underlying genotype-phenotype mechanisms. Modeling approaches from the AI
field that incorporate deterministic knowledge into models to perform
statistical analysis can be applied to include prior knowledge in genetic
analysis. We chose to use the most general such approach, Markov Logic Networks
(MLNs), as a framework for combining deterministic knowledge with statistical
analysis. Using simple, logistic regression-type MLNs we have been able to
replicate the results of traditional statistical methods. Moreover, we show
that even with simple models we are able to go beyond finding independent
markers linked to a phenotype by using joint inference that avoids an
independence assumption. The method is applied to genetic data on yeast
sporulation, a phenotype governed by non-linear gene interactions. In addition
to detecting all of the previously identified loci associated with sporulation,
our method is able to identify four loci with small effects. Since their effect
on sporulation is small, these four loci were not detected with methods that do
not account for dependence between markers due to gene interactions. We show
how gene interactions can be detected using more complex models, which can be
used as a general framework for incorporating systems biology with genetics.