This is the first part in a series of papers in which we introduce and
develop a natural, general tensor category theory for suitable module
categories for a vertex (operator) algebra. This theory generalizes the tensor
category theory for modules for a vertex operator algebra previously developed
in a series of papers by the first two contributors to suitable module categories
for a "conformal vertex algebra" or even more generally, for a "M\"obius vertex
algebra." We do not require the module categories to be semisimple, and we
accommodate modules with generalized weight spaces. As in the earlier series of
papers, our tensor product functors depend on a complex variable, but in the
present generality, the logarithm of the complex variable is required; the
general representation theory of vertex operator algebras requires logarithmic
structure. This work includes the complete proofs in the present generality and
can be read independently of the earlier series of papers. Since this is a new
theory, we present it in detail, including the necessary new foundational
material. In addition, with a view toward anticipated applications, we develop
and present the various stages of the theory in the natural, general settings
in which the proofs hold, settings that are sometimes more general than what we
need for the main conclusions. In this paper (Part I), we give a detailed
overview of our theory, state our main results and introduce the basic objects
that we shall study in this work. We include a brief discussion of some of the
recent applications of this theory, and also a discussion of some recent
literature.