Biofilm is a formation of microbial material on tooth substrata. Several
methods to quantify dental biofilm coverage have recently been reported in the
literature, but at best they provide a semi-automated approach to
quantification with significant input from a human grader that comes with the
graders bias of what are foreground, background, biofilm, and tooth.
Additionally, human assessment indices limit the resolution of the
quantification scale; most commercial scales use five levels of quantification
for biofilm coverage (0%, 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100%). On the other hand, current
state-of-the-art techniques in automatic plaque quantification fail to make
their way into practical applications owing to their inability to incorporate
human input to handle misclassifications. This paper proposes a new interactive
method for biofilm quantification in Quantitative light-induced fluorescence
(QLF) images of canine teeth that is independent of the perceptual bias of the
grader. The method partitions a QLF image into segments of uniform texture and
intensity called superpixels; every superpixel is statistically modeled as a
realization of a single 2D Gaussian Markov random field (GMRF) whose parameters
are estimated; the superpixel is then assigned to one of three classes
(background, biofilm, tooth substratum) based on the training set of data. The
quantification results show a high degree of consistency and precision. At the
same time, the proposed method gives pathologists full control to post-process
the automatic quantification by flipping misclassified superpixels to a
different state (background, tooth, biofilm) with a single click, providing
greater usability than simply marking the boundaries of biofilm and tooth as
done by current state-of-the-art methods.