Knowledge of the chemical composition and absolute masses of Capella are key
to understanding the evolutionary state of this benchmark binary system
comprising two giant stars. Previous efforts, including our own 2009 study,
have largely failed to reach an acceptable agreement between the observations
and current stellar evolution models, preventing us from assessing the status
of the primary. Here we report a revision of the physical properties of the
components incorporating recently published high-precision radial velocity
measurements, and a new detailed chemical analysis providing abundances for
more than 20 elements in both stars. We obtain highly precise (to about 0.3%)
masses of 2.5687 +/- 0.0074 and 2.4828 +/- 0.0067 solar masses, radii of 11.98
+/- 0.57 and 8.83 +/- 0.33 solar radii, effective temperatures of 4970 +/- 50 K
and 5730 +/- 60 K, and independently measured luminosities based on the orbital
parallax (78.7 +/- 4.2 and 72.7 +/- 3.6 solar luminosities). We find an
excellent match to stellar evolution models at the measured composition of
[Fe/H] = -0.04 +/- 0.06. Three different sets of models place the primary star
firmly at the end of the core helium-burning phase (clump), while the secondary
is known to be evolving rapidly across the Hertzprung gap. The measured lithium
abundance, the C/N ratio, and the 12C/13C isotopic carbon abundance ratio,
which change rapidly in the giant phase, are broadly in agreement with
expectations from models. Predictions from tidal theory for the spin rates,
spin-orbit alignment, and other properties do not fare as well, requiring a
40-fold increase in the efficiency of the dissipation mechanisms in order to
match the observations.