Text data, including speeches, stories, and other document forms, are often
connected to sentiment variables that are of interest for research in
marketing, economics, and elsewhere. It is also very high dimensional and
difficult to incorporate into statistical analyses. This article introduces a
straightforward framework of sentiment-preserving dimension reduction for text
data. Multinomial inverse regression is introduced as a general tool for
simplifying predictor sets that can be represented as draws from a multinomial
distribution, and we show that logistic regression of phrase counts onto
document annotations can be used to obtain low dimension document
representations that are rich in sentiment information. To facilitate this
modeling, a novel estimation technique is developed for multinomial logistic
regression with very high-dimension response. In particular, independent
Laplace priors with unknown variance are assigned to each regression
coefficient, and we detail an efficient routine for maximization of the joint
posterior over coefficients and their prior scale. This "gamma-lasso" scheme
yields stable and effective estimation for general high-dimension logistic
regression, and we argue that it will be superior to current methods in many
settings. Guidelines for prior specification are provided, algorithm
convergence is detailed, and estimator properties are outlined from the
perspective of the literature on non-concave likelihood penalization. Related
work on sentiment analysis from statistics, econometrics, and machine learning
is surveyed and connected. Finally, the methods are applied in two detailed
examples and we provide out-of-sample prediction studies to illustrate their
effectiveness.