In this text, we consider random permutations which can be written as free
words in several independent random permutations: firstly, we fix a non trivial
word $w$ in letters $g_1,g_1^{-1},..., g_k,g_k^{-1}$, secondly, for all $n$, we
introduce a $k$-tuple $s_1(n),..., s_k(n)$ of independent random permutations
of $\{1,..., n\}$, and the random permutation $\sigma_n$ we are going to
consider is the one obtained by replacing each letter $g_i$ in $w$ by $s_i(n)$.
For example, for $w=g_1g_2g_3g_2^{-1}$, $\sigma_n=s_1(n)\circ s_2(n)\circ
s_3(n)\circ s_2(n)^{-1}$. Moreover, we restrict the set of possible lengths of
the cycles of the $s_i(n)$'s: we fix sets $A_1,..., A_k$ of positive integers
and suppose that for all $n$, for all $i$, $s_i(n)$ is uniformly distributed on
the set of permutations of $\{1,..., n\}$ which have all their cycle lengths in
$A_i$. For all positive integer $l$, we are going to give asymptotics, as $n$
goes to infinity, on the number $N_l(\sigma_n)$ of cycles of length $l$ of
$\sigma_n$. We shall also consider the joint distribution of the random vectors
$(N_1(\sigma_n),..., N_l(\sigma_n))$. We first prove that the order of $w$ in a
certain quotient of the free group with generators $g_1,..., g_k$ determines
the rate of growth of the random variables $N_l(\sigma_n)$ as $n$ goes to
infinity. We also prove that in many cases, the distribution of $N_l(\sigma_n)$
converges to a Poisson law with parameter $1/l$ and that the random variables
$N_1(\sigma_n),N_2(\sigma_n), ...$ are asymptotically independent. We notice
the surprising fact that from this point of view, many things happen as if
$\sigma_n$ were uniformly distributed on the $n$-th symmetric group.