Gamma rays and neutrons, emitted following spontaneous fission of 252Cf, were
measured in an AGATA experiment performed at INFN Laboratori Nazionali di
Legnaro in Italy. The setup consisted of four AGATA triple cluster detectors
(12 36-fold segmented high-purity germanium crystals), placed at a distance of
50 cm from the source, and 16 HELENA BaF2 detectors. The aim of the experiment
was to study the interaction of neutrons in the segmented high-purity germanium
detectors of AGATA and to investigate the possibility to discriminate neutrons
and gamma rays with the gamma-ray tracking technique. The BaF2 detectors were
used for a time-of-flight measurement, which gave an independent discrimination
of neutrons and gamma rays and which was used to optimise the gamma-ray
tracking-based neutron rejection methods. It was found that standard gamma-ray
tracking, without any additional neutron rejection features, eliminates
effectively most of the interaction points due to recoiling Ge nuclei after
elastic scattering of neutrons. Standard tracking rejects also a significant
amount of the events due to inelastic scattering of neutrons in the germanium
crystals. Further enhancements of the neutron rejection was obtained by setting
conditions on the following quantities, which were evaluated for each event by
the tracking algorithm: energy of the first and second interaction point,
difference in the calculated incoming direction of the gamma ray,
figure-of-merit value. The experimental results of tracking with neutron
rejection agree rather well with Geant4 simulations.