We consider estimation and inference in panel data models with additive
unobserved individual specific heterogeneity in a high dimensional setting. The
setting allows the number of time varying regressors to be larger than the
sample size. To make informative estimation and inference feasible, we require
that the overall contribution of the time varying variables after eliminating
the individual specific heterogeneity can be captured by a relatively small
number of the available variables whose identities are unknown. This
restriction allows the problem of estimation to proceed as a variable selection
problem. Importantly, we treat the individual specific heterogeneity as fixed
effects which allows this heterogeneity to be related to the observed time
varying variables in an unspecified way and allows that this heterogeneity may
be non-zero for all individuals. Within this framework, we provide procedures
that give uniformly valid inference over a fixed subset of parameters in the
canonical linear fixed effects model and over coefficients on a fixed vector of
endogenous variables in panel data instrumental variables models with fixed
effects and many instruments. An input to developing the properties of our
proposed procedures is the use of a variant of the Lasso estimator that allows
for a grouped data structure where data across groups are independent and
dependence within groups is unrestricted. We provide formal conditions within
this structure under which the proposed Lasso variant selects a sparse model
with good approximation properties. We present simulation results in support of
the theoretical developments and illustrate the use of the methods in an
application aimed at estimating the effect of gun prevalence on crime rates.