We examine the rates at which energy and momentum are radiated into
gravitational waves by a large set of realistic cosmic string loops. The string
loops are generated by numerically evolving parent loops with different initial
conditions forward in time until they self-intersect, fragmenting into two
child loops. The fragmentation of the child loops is followed recursively until
only non-self-intersecting loops remain. The properties of the final
non-self-intersecting loops are found to be independent of the initial
conditions of the parent loops. We have calculated the radiated energy and
momentum for a total of 11,625 stable child loops. We find that the majority of
the final loops do not radiate significant amounts of spatial momentum. The
velocity gained due to the rocket effect is typically small compared to the
center-of-mass velocity of the fragmented loops. The distribution of
gravitational radiation rates in the center of mass frame of the loops,
$\gamma^0 \equiv (G\mu^2)^{-1} \Delta E/\Delta \tau$, is strongly peaked in the
range $\gamma^0=45-55$, however there are no loops found with $\gamma^0 < 40$.
Because the radiated spatial momentum is small, the distribution of
gravitational radiation rates appears roughly the same in any reference frame.
We conjecture that in the center-of-mass frame there is a lower bound
$\gamma^0_{\rm min}>0$ for the radiation rate from cosmic string loops. In a
second conjecture, we identify a candidate for the loop with the minimal
radiation rate and suggest that $\gamma^0_{\rm min}\cong 39.003$.