We present an analysis of the optical spectra of narrow emission-line
galaxies, based on mean field independent component analysis (MFICA). Samples
of galaxies were drawn from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and used to
generate compact sets of `continuum' and `emission-line' component spectra.
These components can be linearly combined to reconstruct the observed spectra
of a wider sample of galaxies. Only 10 components - five continuum and five
emission line - are required to produce accurate reconstructions of essentially
all narrow emission-line galaxies; the median absolute deviations of the
reconstructed emission-line fluxes, given the signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of
the observed spectra, are 1.2-1.8 sigma for the strong lines. After applying
the MFICA components to a large sample of SDSS galaxies we identify the regions
of parameter space that correspond to pure star formation and pure active
galactic nucleus (AGN) emission-line spectra, and produce high S/N
reconstructions of these spectra.
  The physical properties of the pure star formation and pure AGN spectra are
investigated by means of a series of photoionization models, exploiting the
faint emission lines that can be measured in the reconstructions. We are able
to recreate the emission line strengths of the most extreme AGN case by
assuming the central engine illuminates a large number of individual clouds
with radial distance and density distributions, f(r) ~ r^gamma and g(n) ~
n^beta, respectively. The best fit is obtained with gamma = -0.75 and beta =
-1.4. From the reconstructed star formation spectra we are able to estimate the
starburst ages. These preliminary investigations serve to demonstrate the
success of the MFICA-based technique in identifying distinct emission sources,
and its potential as a tool for the detailed analysis of the physical
properties of galaxies in large-scale surveys.