Random linear network codes can be designed and implemented in a distributed
manner, with low computational complexity. However, these codes are classically
implemented over finite fields whose size depends on some global network
parameters (size of the network, the number of sinks) that may not be known
prior to code design. Also, if new nodes join the entire network code may have
to be redesigned.
  In this work, we present the first universal and robust distributed linear
network coding schemes. Our schemes are universal since they are independent of
all network parameters. They are robust since if nodes join or leave, the
remaining nodes do not need to change their coding operations and the receivers
can still decode. They are distributed since nodes need only have topological
information about the part of the network upstream of them, which can be
naturally streamed as part of the communication protocol.
  We present both probabilistic and deterministic schemes that are all
asymptotically rate-optimal in the coding block-length, and have guarantees of
correctness. Our probabilistic designs are computationally efficient, with
order-optimal complexity. Our deterministic designs guarantee zero error
decoding, albeit via codes with high computational complexity in general. Our
coding schemes are based on network codes over ``scalable fields". Instead of
choosing coding coefficients from one field at every node, each node uses
linear coding operations over an ``effective field-size" that depends on the
node's distance from the source node. The analysis of our schemes requires
technical tools that may be of independent interest. In particular, we
generalize the Schwartz-Zippel lemma by proving a non-uniform version, wherein
variables are chosen from sets of possibly different sizes. We also provide a
novel robust distributed algorithm to assign unique IDs to network nodes.