This paper is concerned with developing accurate and efficient numerical
methods for one-dimensional fully nonlinear second order elliptic and parabolic
partial differential equations (PDEs). In the paper we present a general
framework for constructing high order interior penalty discontinuous Galerkin
(IP-DG) methods for approximating viscosity solutions of these fully nonlinear
PDEs. In order to capture discontinuities of the second order derivative
$u_{xx}$ of the solution $u$, three independent functions $p_1, p_2$ and $p_3$
are introduced to represent numerical derivatives using various one-sided
limits. The proposed DG framework, which is based on a nonstandard mixed
formulation of the underlying PDE, embeds a nonlinear problem into a mostly
linear system of equations where the nonlinearity has been modified to include
multiple values of the second order derivative $u_{xx}$. The proposed framework
extends a companion finite difference framework developed by the contributors in [9]
and allows for the approximation of fully nonlinear PDEs using high order
polynomials and non-uniform meshes.In addition to the nonstandard mixed
formulation setting, another main idea is to replace the fully nonlinear
differential operator by a numerical operator, which is consistent with the
differential operator and satisfies certain monotonicity (called
g-monotonicity) properties. To ensure such a g-monotonicity, the crux of the
construction is to introduce the numerical moment, which plays a critical role
in the proposed DG framework. This paper also presents and analyzes numerical
results for several numerical test problems which are used to guage the
accuracy and efficiency of the proposed DG methods.