Starting from a sequence regarded as a walk through some set of values, we
consider the associated loop-erased walk as a sequence of directed edges, with
an edge from $i$ to $j$ if the loop erased walk makes a step from $i$ to $j$.
We introduce a coloring of these edges by painting edges with a fixed color as
long as the walk does not loop back on itself, then switching to a new color
whenever a loop is erased, with each new color distinct from all previous
colors. The pattern of colors along the edges of the loop-erased walk then
displays stretches of consecutive steps of the walk left untouched by the
loop-erasure process. Assuming that the underlying sequence generating the
loop-erased walk is a sequence of independent random variables, each uniform on
$[N]:=\{1, 2, ..., N\}$, we condition the walk to start at $N$ and stop the
walk when it first reaches the subset $[k]$, for some $1 \leq k \leq N-1$. We
relate the distribution of the random length of this loop-erased walk to the
distribution of the length of the first loop of the walk, via Cayley's
enumerations of trees, and via Wilson's algorithm. For fixed $N$ and $k$, and
$i = 1,2, ...$, let $B_i$ denote the event that the loop-erased walk from $N$
to $[k]$ has $i +1$ or more edges, and the $i^{th}$ and $(i+1)^{th}$ of these
edges are colored differently. We show that given that the loop-erased random
walk has $j$ edges for some $1\leq j \leq N-k$, the events $B_i$ for $1 \leq i
\leq j-1$ are independent, with the probability of $B_i$ equal to $1/(k+i+1)$.
This determines the distribution of the sequence of random lengths of
differently colored segments of the loop-erased walk, and yields asymptotic
descriptions of these random lengths as $N \to \infty$.