The magnetic field-pressure-temperature (H-P-T) phase diagram for first order
antiferromagnetic (AFM) to ferromagnetic (FM) transition in
Fe49(Rh0.93Pd0.07)51 has been constructed using resistivity measurements under
simultaneous application of magnetic field (up to 8 Tesla) and pressure (up to
20 kbar). Temperature dependence of resistivity ({\rho}-T) shows that with
increasing pressure, the width of the transition and the extent of hysteresis
decreases whereas with the application of magnetic field it increases.
Consistent with existing literature the first order transition temperature (TN)
increases with the application of external pressure (~ 7.3 K/ kbar) and
decreases with magnetic field (~ - 12.8 K/Tesla). Exploiting these opposing
trends, resistivity under simultaneous application of magnetic field and
pressure is used to distinguish the relative effect of temperature, magnetic
field and pressure on disorder broadened first order transition. For this a set
of H and P values are chosen for which TN (H1, P1) = TN (H2, P2). Measurements
for such combinations of H and P show that the temperature dependence of
resistivity is similar i.e. the broadening (in temperature) of transition as
well as extent of hysteresis remains independent of H and P. The transition
width decreases exponentially with increasing temperature. Isothermal
magnetoresistance measurement under various constant pressure show that even
though the critical field required for AFM-FM transition depends on applied
pressure, the hysteresis as well as transition width (in magnetic field) both
remains independent of pressure, consistent with our conclusions drawn from
{\rho}-T measurements.