We focus on the problem of estimating and quantifying uncertainties on the
excursion set of a function under a limited evaluation budget. We adopt a
Bayesian approach where the objective function is assumed to be a realization
of a random field, typically assumed Gaussian. In this setting, the posterior
distribution on the objective function gives rise to a poste-rior distribution
of excursion sets. Several approaches exist to summarize the distribution of
the excursion sets based on random closed set the-ory. While the recently
proposed Vorob'ev approach leads to analytically tractable expectations,
further notions of variability require Monte Carlo estimators relying on
Gaussian random field conditional simulations. In the present work we propose a
method to choose simulation points and obtain realizations of the conditional
field at fine designs through affine predictors. The points are chosen
optimally in the sense that they mini-mize the expected distance in measure
between the posterior excursion set and its reconstruction. The proposed method
reduces the computational costs due to simulations and enables the prediction
of realizations on fine designs even in large dimensions. We apply this
reconstruction approach to obtain realizations of an excursion set on a fine
grid which allow us to give a new measure of uncertainty based on the distance
transform of the excursion set. Finally we present an application of the method
where the distribution of the volume of excursion is estimated in a
six-dimensional example.