There is a rapid shift of advertisement from the traditional media to the
Internet. A large portion of the traffic created by publicity is due to search
engines through sponsored search. Advertisers pay the search engine to show
their content, usually in order to get traffic to their own websites (where
they may even feature more publicity). Search engines provide limited space for
publicity (i.e. slots) for each keyword search. Since the demand is high they
are conducting auctions to determine the advertisers for each keyword search.
Designing an auction mechanism one must specify how to assign bidders to goods
(or vice versa) and how to set the price for each good won in the auction. This
work proposes a new auction mechanism were the slots are distributed among the
advertisers depending on how much each advertiser values appearing in a keyword
search slot at a specific time. The proposed approach makes payment to the
search engine independent of these values. In particular, we propose that
payments take the form of a flat fee. We show that this auction mechanism
fairly distributes resources (or goods, e.g., slots) in an online fashion,
based on the users' declared preferences, while being socially efficient. While
the main motivation for this work was sponsored search, the proposed mechanism
can be used in general for the fair distribution of resources in an online
fashion among a set of users. Hence, we refer to this mechanism as Fair and
Efficient Distribution of Resources (FEDoR). FEDoR can be used even when the
auction is done in a distributed fashion (i.e., without central contributority), and
it provides fairness, social efficiency and incentive compatibility.
Essentially, letting the search engine adjust its revenue through the flat fee
paid by the advertisers, FEDoR allows it to achieve the maximum gain while
being competitive in the search engines' market.