There is little information from independent sources in the public domain
about mobile malware infection rates. The only previous independent estimate
(0.0009%) [12], was based on indirect measurements obtained from domain name
resolution traces. In this paper, we present the first independent study of
malware infection rates and associated risk factors using data collected
directly from over 55,000 Android devices. We find that the malware infection
rates in Android devices estimated using two malware datasets (0.28% and
0.26%), though small, are significantly higher than the previous independent
estimate. Using our datasets, we investigate how indicators extracted
inexpensively from the devices correlate with malware infection. Based on the
hypothesis that some application stores have a greater density of malicious
applications and that advertising within applications and cross-promotional
deals may act as infection vectors, we investigate whether the set of
applications used on a device can serve as an indicator for infection of that
device. Our analysis indicates that this alone is not an accurate indicator for
pinpointing infection. However, it is a very inexpensive but surprisingly
useful way for significantly narrowing down the pool of devices on which
expensive monitoring and analysis mechanisms must be deployed. Using our two
malware datasets we show that this indicator performs 4.8 and 4.6 times
(respectively) better at identifying infected devices than the baseline of
random checks. Such indicators can be used, for example, in the search for new
or previously undetected malware. It is therefore a technique that can
complement standard malware scanning by anti-malware tools. Our analysis also
demonstrates a marginally significant difference in battery use between
infected and clean devices.