The parabolic Anderson model is defined as the partial differential equation
\partial u(x,t)/\partial t = \kappa\Delta u(x,t) + \xi(x,t)u(x,t), x\in\Z^d,
t\geq 0, where \kappa \in [0,\infty) is the diffusion constant, \Delta is the
discrete Laplacian, and \xi is a dynamic random environment that drives the
equation. The initial condition u(x,0)=u_0(x), x\in\Z^d, is taken to be
non-negative and bounded. The solution of the parabolic Anderson equation
describes the evolution of a field of particles performing independent simple
random walks with binary branching: particles jump at rate 2d\kappa, split into
two at rate \xi \vee 0, and die at rate (-\xi) \vee 0. Our focus is on the
Lyapunov exponents \lambda_p(\kappa) = \lim_{t\to\infty} \frac{1}{t} \log
\E([u(0,t)]^p)^{1/p}, p \in \N, and \lambda_0(\kappa) = \lim_{t\to\infty}
\frac{1}{t}\log u(0,t). We investigate what happens when \kappa\Delta is
replaced by \Delta^\cK, where \cK = \{\mathcal{K}(x,y)\colon\,x,y\in\Z^d,\,x
\sim y\} is a collection of random conductances between neighbouring sites
replacing the constant conductances \kappa in the homogeneous model. We show
that the associated annealed Lyapunov exponents are given by the formula
\lambda_p(\cK) = \sup\{\lambda_p(\kappa) \colon\,\kappa\in\Supp(\cK)\}, where
\Supp(\cK) is the set of values taken by the \cK-field. We also show that for
the associated quenched Lyapunov exponent this formula only provides a lower
bound. Our proof is valid for three classes of reversible \xi, and for all \cK
satisfying a certain clustering property, namely, there are arbitrarily large
balls where \cK is almost constant and close to any value in \Supp(\cK). What
our result says is that the Lyapunov exponents are controlled by those pockets
of \cK where the conductances are close to the value that maximises the growth
in the homogeneous setting.