Large entropy fluctuations in a nonequilibrium steady state of classical
mechanics were studied in extensive numerical experiments on a simple 2-freedom
model with the so-called Gauss time-reversible thermostat. The local
fluctuations (on a set of fixed trajectory segments) from the average heat
entropy absorbed in thermostat were found to be non-Gaussian. Approximately,
the fluctuations can be discribed by a two-Gaussian distribution with a
crossover independent of the segment length and the number of trajectories
('particles'). The distribution itself does depend on both, approaching the
single standard Gaussian distribution as any of those parameters increases. The
global time-dependent fluctuations turned out to be qualitatively different in
that they have a strict upper bound much less than the average entropy
production. Thus, unlike the equilibrium steady state, the recovery of the
initial low entropy becomes impossible, after a sufficiently long time, even in
the largest fluctuations. However, preliminary numerical experiments and the
theoretical estimates in the special case of the critical dynamics with
superdiffusion suggest the existence of infinitely many Poincar\'e recurrences
to the initial state and beyond. This is a new interesting phenomenon to be
farther studied together with some other open questions. Relation of this
particular example of nonequilibrium steady state to a long-standing persistent
controversy over statistical 'irreversibility', or the notorious 'time arrow',
is also discussed. In conclusion, an unsolved problem of the origin of the
causality 'principle' is touched upon.