We extend a recent chiral approach to nuclear matter by including the most
general (momentum-independent) NN-contact interaction. Iterating this
two-parameter contact-vertex with itself and with one-pion exchange the
emerging energy per particle exhausts all terms possible up-to-and-including
fourth order in the small momentum expansion. The equation of state of pure
neutron matter, $\bar E_n(k_n)$, can be reproduced very well up to quite high
neutron densities of $\rho_n=0.5\fmd$ by adjusting the strength of a repulsive
$nn$-contact interaction. Binding and saturation of isospin-symmetric nuclear
matter is a generic feature of our perturbative calculation. Fixing the maximum
binding energy per particle to $-\bar E(k_{f0})= 15.3 $MeV we find that any
possible equilibrium density $\rho_0$ lies below $\rho_0^{\rm max}=0.191\fmd$.
The additional constraint from the neutron matter equation of state leads
however to a somewhat too low saturation density of $\rho_0 =0.134 \fmd$. We
also investigate the effects of the NN-contact interaction on the complex
single-particle potential $U(p,k_f)+i W(p,k_f)$. We find that the effective
nucleon mass at the Fermi-surface is bounded from below by $M^*(k_{f0}) \geq
1.4 M$. This property keeps the critical temperature of the liquid-gas phase
transition at somewhat too high values $T_c \geq 21 $MeV. The downward bending
of the asymmetry energy $A(k_f)$ above nuclear matter saturation density is a
generic feature of the approximation to fourth order. Altogether, there is
within this complete fourth-order calculation no "magic" set of adjustable
short-range parameters with which one could reproduce simultaneously and
accurately all semi-empirical properties of nuclear matter.