We compute, including a current state-of-the-art treatment of hydrodynamical
processes, heating and cooling, a variety of cosmological models into the
extreme nonlinear phase to enable comparisons with observations. First, we note
the common, model independent results. All have a mean ($z=0$) temperature of
$10^{4.5}-10^{5.5}$\Kel, set essentially by photoheating processes. Most gas is
in one of two components: either at the photoheating floor $10^{4.5}$\Kel and
primarily in low density regions or else shock heated to $10^5-10^6$\Kel and in
regions of moderate overdensity (in caustics and near groups and clusters). It
presents a major observational challenge to observationally detect this second,
abundant component as it is neither an efficient radiator nor absorber. About
2% to 10% of the baryons cool and collapse into galaxies forming on caustics
and migrating to clusters. About 1%-2% of baryons are in the very hot X-ray
emitting gas near cluster cores, in good agreement with observations. These
correspondances between the simulations and the real world imply that there is
some significant truth to the underlying standard scenarios for the growth of
structure. The differences among model predictions may help us find the path to
the correct model. For COBE normalized models the most relevant differences
concern epoch of structure formation. In the open variants having $\Omega=0.3$,
with or without a cosmological constant, structure formation on galactic scales
is well advanced at redshift z=5, and reionization occurs early. But if
observations require models for which most galaxy formation occurs more
recently than $z=2$, then the flat $\Omega=1$ models are to be preferred. The
velocity dispersion on the $1h^{-1}$Mpc scale also provides a strong
discriminant with, as expected, the $\Omega=1$ models giving a much higher