The numbers of natural chemical elements, minerals, inorganic and organic
chemical compounds are determined by 1, 2, 3 and 4-combinations of a set 95 and
are respectively equal to 95, 4,465, 138,415 and 3,183,545. To explain these
relations it is suggested the concept of information coefficient of
proportionality as mathematical generalization of the proportionality
coefficient for any set of positive numbers. It is suggested a hypothesis that
the unimodal distributions of the sets of information coefficients of
proportionality for atomic weights of chemical elements of minerals and
chemical compounds correspond to unimodal distributions of the above sets for
combination of 2, 3 and 4 atomic weights of 95 natural chemical elements. The
expected values of symmetrized distributions of information coefficients of
proportionality sets for atomic weights of minerals and chemical compounds are
proposed to be used to define chemical compounds, like atomic weights define
chemical elements. Variational series of the expected values can be represented
as a sequence of packets of 95 values. The Periodic Table should be extended to
the Periodic Table of Chemical Elements and Chemical Compounds consisting of a
short period with 95 chemical elements and 4,465 minerals, and 24 periods with
138,415 compounds each. All naturally occurred chemical elements, minerals and
chemical compounds should be packed in 95 to compose the suggested Table. The
first long period comprises the packets of inorganic compounds, the rest of the
periods include the packets of organic compounds.