A major problem in extragalactic astronomy is the inability to distinguish in
a robust, physical, and model independent way how galaxy populations are
related to each other and to their formation histories. A similar, but
distinct, and also long standing question is whether the structural appearances
of galaxies, as seen through their stellar light distributions, contain enough
physical information to offer this classification. We argue through the use of
240 images of nearby galaxies that three model independent parameters measured
on a single galaxy image reveal its major ongoing and past formation modes, and
can be used as a robust classification system. These parameters quantitatively
measure: the concentration (C), asymmetry (A) and clumpiness (S) of a galaxy's
stellar light distribution. When combined into a three dimensional `CAS' volume
all major classes of galaxies in various phases of evolution are cleanly
distinguished. We argue that these three parameters correlate with important
modes of galaxy evolution: star formation and major merging activity. This is
argued through the strong correlation of Halpha equivalent width and broad band
colors with the clumpiness parameter, the uniquely large asymmetries of 66
galaxies undergoing mergers, and the correlation of bulge to total light
ratios, and stellar masses, with the concentration index. As an obvious goal is
to use this system at high redshifts to trace evolution, we demonstrate that
these parameters can be measured, within a reasonable and quantifiable
uncertainty, with available data out to z ~ 3 using the Hubble Space Telescope
GOODS ACS and Hubble Deep Field images.