In this paper we study the kinetics of diffusion-limited, pseudo-first-order
A + B -> B reactions in situations in which the particles' intrinsic
reactivities vary randomly in time. That is, we suppose that the particles are
bearing "gates" which interchange randomly and independently of each other
between two states - an active state, when the reaction may take place, and a
blocked state, when the reaction is completly inhibited. We consider four
different models, such that the A particle can be either mobile or immobile,
gated or ungated, as well as ungated or gated B particles can be fixed at
random positions or move randomly. All models are formulated on a
$d$-dimensional regular lattice and we suppose that the mobile species perform
independent, homogeneous, discrete-time lattice random walks. The model
involving a single, immobile, ungated target A and a concentration of mobile,
gated B particles is solved exactly. For the remaining three models we
determine exactly, in form of rigorous lower and upper bounds, the large-N
asymptotical behavior of the A particle survival probability. We also realize
that for all four models studied here such a probalibity can be interpreted as
the moment generating function of some functionals of random walk trajectories,
such as, e.g., the number of self-intersections, the number of sites visited
exactly a given number of times, "residence time" on a random array of lattice
sites and etc. Our results thus apply to the asymptotical behavior of the
corresponding generating functions which has not been known as yet.