Multicycle nova evolution models have been calculated over the past twenty
years, the number being limited by numerical constraints. Here we present a
long-term evolution code that enables a continuous calculation through an
unlimited number of nova cycles for an unlimited evolution time, even up to (or
exceeding) a Hubble time. Starting with two sets of the three independent nova
parameters -- the white dwarf mass, the temperature of its isothermal core, and
the rate of mass transfer on to it -- we have followed the evolution of two
models, with initial masses of 1 and 0.65 solar masses, accretion rates
(constant throughout each calculation) of 1e-11 and 1e-9 solar-masses/yr, and
relatively high initial temperatures (as they are likely to be at the onset of
the outburst phase), through over 1000 and over 3000 cycles, respectively. The
results show that although on the short-term consecutive outbursts are almost
identical, on the long-term scale the characteristics change. This is mainly
due to the changing core temperature, which decreases very similarly to that of
a cooling white dwarf for a time, but at a slower rate thereafter. As the white
dwarf's mass continually decreases, since both models lose more mass than they
accrete, the central pressure decreases accordingly. The outbursts on the
massive white dwarf change gradually from fast to moderately fast, and the
other characteristics (velocity, abundance ratios, isotopic ratios) change,
too. Very slowly, a steady state is reached, where all characteristics, both in
quiescence and in outburst, remain almost constant. For the less massive white
dwarf accreting at a high rate, outbursts are similar throughout the evolution.