The problem of simultaneous multicasting of multiple messages with the help
of a relay terminal is considered. In particular, a model is studied in which a
relay station simultaneously assists two transmitters in multicasting their
independent messages to two receivers. The relay may also have an independent
message of its own to multicast. As a first step to address this general model,
referred to as the compound multiple access channel with a relay (cMACr), the
capacity region of the multiple access channel with a "cognitive" relay is
characterized, including the cases of partial and rate-limited cognition. Then,
achievable rate regions for the cMACr model are presented based on
decode-and-forward (DF) and compress-and-forward (CF) relaying strategies.
Moreover, an outer bound is derived for the special case, called the cMACr
without cross-reception, in which each transmitter has a direct link to one of
the receivers while the connection to the other receiver is enabled only
through the relay terminal. The capacity region is characterized for a binary
modulo additive cMACr without cross-reception, showing the optimality of binary
linear block codes, thus highlighting the benefits of physical layer network
coding and structured codes. Results are extended to the Gaussian channel model
as well, providing achievable rate regions for DF and CF, as well as for a
structured code design based on lattice codes. It is shown that the performance
with lattice codes approaches the upper bound for increasing power, surpassing
the rates achieved by the considered random coding-based techniques.