In two previous papers we formulated and solved, for a fiducial set of free
parameters, the problem of the formation and evolution of a magnetically
supercritical core inside a magnetically subcritical parent cloud. In this
paper we present a parameter study to assess the sensitivity of the results (1)
to the density at which the equation of state becomes adiabatic; (2) to the
initial mass-to-flux ratio of the parent cloud; and (3) to ionization by
radioactive decay of different nuclei (40K and 26Al) at high densities (number
density > 10^12 particles per cubic cm). We find that (1) the results depend
only slightly on the density at which the onset of adiabaticity occurs; (2)
memory of the initial mass-to-flux ratio is completely lost at late times,
which emphasizes the relevance of this work, idependently of the adopted theory
of core formation; and (3) the precise source of radioactive ionization alters
the degree of attachment of the electrons to the field lines (at high
densities), and the relative importance of ambipolar diffusion and Ohmic
dissipation in reducing the magnetic flux of the protostar. The value of the
magnetic field at the end of the runs is insensitive to the values of the free
parameters and in excellent agreement with meteoritic measurements of the
protosolar nebula magnetic field. The magnetic flux problem of star formation
is resolved for at least strongly magnetic newborn stars. A complete detachment
of the magnetic field from the matter is unlikely. The formation of a "magnetic
wall" (with an associated magnetic shock) is independent of the assumed
equation of state, although the process is enhanced and accelerated by the
formation of a central hydrostatic core.