One of the biggest drawbacks of the wireless environment is the limited
bandwidth. However, the users sharing this limited bandwidth have been
increasing considerably.Space Division Multiple Access (SDMA) is a new
technology by which the capacity of existing mobile communication systems can
economically be increased. This paper has been presented how the capacity can
be enhanced by using SDMA with smart antennas in mobile communications system.
Based on Adaptive Antenna Array (AAA) technology the spatial dimension of the
existing system is exploited by means of forming independent radio beams in
each of the original channels. This paper analyses the comparison of average
Bit Error Rate (BER) of SDMA and CDMA technique and the different ways in which
SDMA can be introduced to increase the capacity of a cellular system. The
probability of error is found for a standard omni directional base station
antenna, and another set of curves is found for flat top beam having a
directivity of 5.1dB. It is assumed that k separate flat top beams can be
formed by base station and pointed each of the k users within the cell of
interest. Noticing that for an average probability of error greater than 0.1 in
a propagation path loss environment of n=4, the flat top beam will support 200
users, whereas the omni-directional antenna will support only 50 users. This
increase the number of user is roughly equal to the directivity offered by the
flat top beam system, and illustrates the promise SDMA offers for improving
capacity in wireless system. Here multipath fading is not considered.