We consider the problem of recovering a complex signal $x$ from $m$ intensity
measurements. We address multiple settings corresponding to whether the
measurement vectors are unconstrained choices or not, and to whether the signal
to be recovered is sparse or not. However, our main focus is on the case where
the measurement vectors are unconstrained, and where $x$ is exactly $K$-sparse,
or the so-called general compressive phase-retrieval problem. We introduce
PhaseCode, a novel family of fast and efficient merge-and-color algorithms that
are based on a sparse-graph-codes framework. As one instance, our PhaseCode
algorithm can provably recover, with high probability, all but a tiny $10^{-7}$
fraction of the significant signal components, using at most $m=14K$
measurements, which is a small constant factor from the fundamental limit, with
an optimal $O(K)$ decoding time and an optimal $O(K)$ memory complexity. Next,
motivated by some important practical classes of optical systems, we consider a
Fourier-friendly constrained measurement setting, and show that its performance
matches that of the unconstrained setting. In the Fourier-friendly setting that
we consider, the measurement matrix is constrained to be a cascade of Fourier
matrices and diagonal matrices. We also study the general non-sparse signal
case, for which we propose a simple deterministic set of $3n-2$ measurements
that can recover the n-length signal under some mild assumptions. Throughout,
we provide extensive simulation results that validate the practical power of
our proposed algorithms for the sparse unconstrained and Fourier-friendly
measurement settings, for noiseless and noisy scenarios. A key contribution of
our work is the novel use of coding-theoretic tools like density evolution
methods for the design and analysis of fast and efficient algorithms for
compressive phase-retrieval problems.