Using a discrete wavelet based space-scale decomposition (SSD), the spectrum
of the skewness and kurtosis is developed to describe the non-Gaussian
signatures in cosmologically interesting samples. Because the basis of the
discrete wavelet is compactly supported, the one-point distribution of the
father function coefficients (FFCs) taken from one realization is a good
estimate of the probability distribution function of the density if the ``fair
sample hypothesis" holds. These FFC one-point distributions can also avoid the
constraints of the central limit theorem on the detection of non-Gaussianity.
Thus the FFC one-point distributions are effective in detecting non-Gaussian
behavior in samples such as non-Gaussian clumps embedded in a Gaussain
background, regardless of the number or density of the clumps. We demonstrate
that the non-Gaussianity can reveal not only the magnitudes but also the scales
of non-Gaussianity.
  Also calculated are the FFC one-point distributions, skewness and kurtosis
spectra for real data and linearly simulated samples of QSO Ly$\alpha$ forests.
When considering only second and lower order of statistics, such as the number
density and two-point correlation functions, the simulated data show the same
features as the real data. However, the the kurtosis spectra of samples given
by different models are found to be different. On the other hand, the spectra
of skewness and kurtosis for independent observational data sets are found to
be the same. Moreover, the real data are significantly different from the
non-Gaussianity spectrum of various posssible random samples. Therefore the
non-Gaussain spectrum is necessary and valuable for model discrimination.