We propose a first-principle method for evaluations of the time-dependent
electron distribution function of excited electrons in the conduction band of
semiconductors. The method takes into account the excitations of electrons by
external source and the relaxation to the bottom of conduction band via
electron-phonon coupling. The methods permits calculations of the
non-equilibrium electron distribution function, the quasi-stationary
distribution function with steady-in-time source of light, the time of setting
of the quasi-stationary distribution and the time of energy loss via relaxation
to the bottom of conduction band. The actual calculations have been performed
for titanium dioxide in the anatase structure and zinc oxide in the wurtzite
structure. We find that the quasi-stationary electron distribution function for
ZnO is a fermi-like curve that rises linearly with increasing excitation energy
whereas the analogous curve for anatase consists of a main peak and a shoulder.
The calculations demonstrate that the relaxation of excited electrons and the
setting of the quasi-stationary distribution occur within the time no more than
500 fsec for ZnO and 100 fsec for anatase.
  We also discuss the applicability of the effective phonon model with
energy-independent electron-phonon transition probability. We find that the
model only reproduces the trends in changing of the characteristic times
whereas the precision of such calculations is not high. The rate of energy
transfer to phonons at the quasi-stationary electron distribution also have
been evaluated and the effect of this transfer on the photocatalyses has been
discussed. We found that for ZnO this rate is about 5 times less than in
anatase.