In a recent paper from SODA11 \cite{kminwise} the contributors introduced a
general framework for exponential time improvement of \minwise based algorithms
by defining and constructing almost \kmin independent family of hash functions.
Here we take it a step forward and reduce the space and the independent needed
for representing the functions, by defining and constructing a \dkmin
independent family of hash functions. Surprisingly, for most cases only 8-wise
independent is needed for exponential time and space improvement. Moreover, we
bypass the $O(\log{\frac{1}{\epsilon}})$ independent lower bound for
approximately \minwise functions \cite{patrascu10kwise-lb}, as we use
alternative definition. In addition, as the independent's degree is a small
constant it can be implemented efficiently.
  Informally, under this definition, all subsets of size $d$ of any fixed set
$X$ have an equal probability to have hash values among the minimal $k$ values
in $X$, where the probability is over the random choice of hash function from
the family. This property measures the randomness of the family, as choosing a
truly random function, obviously, satisfies the definition for $d=k=|X|$. We
define and give an efficient time and space construction of approximately
\dkmin independent family of hash functions. The degree of independent required
is optimal, i.e. only $O(d)$ for $2 \le d < k=O(\frac{d}{\epsilon^2})$, where
$\epsilon \in (0,1)$ is the desired error bound. This construction can be used
to improve many \minwise based algorithms, such as
\cite{sizeEstimationFramework,Datar02estimatingrarity,NearDuplicate,SimilaritySearch,DBLP:conf/podc/CohenK07},
as will be discussed here. To our knowledge such definitions, for hash
functions, were never studied and no construction was given before.