Gross-Oliveira-Kohn density functional theory (GOK-DFT) for ensembles is in
principle very attractive, but has been hard to use in practice. A novel,
practical model based on GOK-DFT for the calculation of electronic excitation
energies is discussed. The new model relies on two modifications of GOK-DFT:
use of range separation and use of the slope of the linearly-interpolated
ensemble energy, rather than orbital energies. The range-separated approach is
appealing as it enables the rigorous formulation of a multi-determinant
state-averaged DFT method. In the exact theory, the short-range density
functional, that complements the long-range wavefunction-based ensemble energy
contribution, should vary with the ensemble weights even when the density is
held fixed. This weight dependence ensures that the range-separated ensemble
energy varies linearly with the ensemble weights. When the (weight-independent)
ground-state short-range exchange-correlation functional is used in this
context, curvature appears thus leading to an approximate weight-dependent
excitation energy. In order to obtain unambiguous approximate excitation
energies, we propose to interpolate linearly the ensemble energy between
equiensembles. It is shown that such a linear interpolation method (LIM) can be
rationalized and that it effectively introduces weight dependence effects. As
proof of principle, LIM has been applied to He, Be, H$_2$ in both equilibrium
and stretched geometries as well as the stretched HeH$^+$ molecule. Very
promising results have been obtained for both single (including charge
transfer) and double excitations with spin-independent short-range local and
semi-local functionals. Even at the Kohn--Sham ensemble DFT level, that is
recovered when the range-separation parameter is set to zero, LIM performs
better than standard time-dependent DFT.