We investigate the mapping of conformal correlators and of their anomalies
from configuration to momentum space for general dimensions, focusing on the
anomalous correlators $TOO$, $TVV$ - involving the energy-momentum tensor $(T)$
with a vector $(V)$ or a scalar operator ($O$) - and the 3-graviton vertex
$TTT$. We compute the $TOO$, $TVV$ and $TTT$ one-loop vertex functions in
dimensional regularization for free field theories involving conformal scalar,
fermion and vector fields. Since there are only one or two independent tensor
structures solving all the conformal Ward identities for the $TOO$ or $TVV$
vertex functions respectively, and three independent tensor structures for the
$TTT$ vertex, and the coefficients of these tensors are known for free fields,
it is possible to identify the corresponding tensors in momentum space from the
computation of the correlators for free fields. This works in general $d$
dimensions for $TOO$ and $TVV$ correlators, but only in 4 dimensions for $TTT$,
since vector fields are conformal only in $d=4$. In this way the general
solution of the Ward identities including anomalous ones for these correlators
in (Euclidean) position space, found by Osborn and Petkou is mapped to the
ordinary diagrammatic one in momentum space. We give simplified expressions of
all these correlators in configuration space which are explicitly Fourier
integrable and provide a diagrammatic interpretation of all the contact terms
arising when two or more of the points coincide. We discuss how the anomalies
arise in each approach [...]