Inspired by a question of Yannakakis on the Vertex Packing polytope of
perfect graphs, we study the Clique-Stable Set Separation in a non-hereditary
subclass of perfect graphs. A cut (B,W) of G (a bipartition of V(G)) separates
a clique K and a stable set S if $K\subseteq B$ and $S\subseteq W$. A
Clique-Stable Set Separator is a family of cuts such that for every clique K,
and for every stable set S disjoint from K, there exists a cut in the family
that separates K and S. Given a class of graphs, the question is to know
whether every graph of the class admits a Clique-Stable Set Separator
containing only polynomially many cuts. It is open for the class of all graphs,
and also for perfect graphs, which was Yannakakis' original question. Here we
investigate on perfect graphs with no balanced skew-partition; the balanced
skew-partition was introduced in the proof of the Strong Perfect Graph Theorem.
Recently, Chudnovsky, Trotignon, Trunck and Vuskovic proved that forbidding
this unfriendly decomposition permits to recursively decompose Berge graphs
using 2-join and complement 2-join until reaching a basic graph, and they found
an efficient combinatorial algorithm to color those graphs. We apply their
decomposition result to prove that perfect graphs with no balanced
skew-partition admit a quadratic-size Clique-Stable Set Separator, by taking
advantage of the good behavior of 2-join with respect to this property. We then
generalize this result and prove that the Strong Erdos-Hajnal property holds in
this class, which means that every such graph has a linear-size biclique or
complement biclique. This property does not hold for all perfect graphs (Fox
2006), and moreover when the Strong Erdos-Hajnal property holds in a hereditary
class of graphs, then both the Erdos-Hajnal property and the polynomial
Clique-Stable Set Separation hold.