In this work we consider temporal graphs, i.e. graphs, each edge of which is
assigned a set of discrete time-labels drawn from a set of integers. The labels
of an edge indicate the discrete moments in time at which the edge is
available. We also consider temporal paths in a temporal graph, i.e. paths
whose edges are assigned a strictly increasing sequence of labels. Furthermore,
we assume the uniform case (UNI-CASE), in which every edge of a graph is
assigned exactly one time label from a set of integers and the time labels
assigned to the edges of the graph are chosen randomly and independently, with
the selection following the uniform distribution. We call uniform random
temporal graphs the graphs that satisfy the UNI-CASE. We begin by deriving the
expected number of temporal paths of a given length in the uniform random
temporal clique. We define the term temporal distance of two vertices, which is
the arrival time, i.e. the time-label of the last edge, of the temporal path
that connects those vertices, which has the smallest arrival time amongst all
temporal paths that connect those vertices. We then propose and study two
statistical properties of temporal graphs. One is the maximum expected temporal
distance which is, as the term indicates, the maximum of all expected temporal
distances in the graph. The other one is the temporal diameter which, loosely
speaking, is the expectation of the maximum temporal distance in the graph. We
derive the maximum expected temporal distance of a uniform random temporal star
graph as well as an upper bound on both the maximum expected temporal distance
and the temporal diameter of the normalized version of the uniform random
temporal clique, in which the largest time-label available equals the number of
vertices. Finally, we provide an algorithm that solves an optimization problem
on a specific type of temporal (multi)graphs of two vertices.