Topological texture features were compared in their ability to classify
morphological patterns known as 'honeycombing' that are considered indicative
for the presence of fibrotic interstitial lung diseases in high-resolution
computed tomography (HRCT) images. For 14 patients with known occurrence of
honey-combing, a stack of 70 axial, lung kernel reconstructed images were
acquired from HRCT chest exams. A set of 241 regions of interest of both
healthy and pathological (89) lung tissue were identified by an experienced
radiologist. Texture features were extracted using six properties calculated
from gray-level co-occurrence matrices (GLCM), Minkowski Dimensions (MDs), and
three Minkowski Functionals (MFs, e.g. MF.euler). A k-nearest-neighbor (k-NN)
classifier and a Multilayer Radial Basis Functions Network (RBFN) were
optimized in a 10-fold cross-validation for each texture vector, and the
classification accuracy was calculated on independent test sets as a
quantitative measure of automated tissue characterization. A Wilcoxon
signed-rank test was used to compare two accuracy distributions and the
significance thresholds were adjusted for multiple comparisons by the
Bonferroni correction. The best classification results were obtained by the MF
features, which performed significantly better than all the standard GLCM and
MD features (p < 0.005) for both classifiers. The highest accuracy was found
for MF.euler (97.5%, 96.6%; for the k-NN and RBFN classifier, respectively).
The best standard texture features were the GLCM features 'homogeneity' (91.8%,
87.2%) and 'absolute value' (90.2%, 88.5%). The results indicate that advanced
topological texture features can provide superior classification performance in
computer-assisted diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases when compared to
standard texture analysis methods.