We present and employ a new kinematical approach to cosmological `dark
energy' studies. We construct models in terms of the dimensionless second and
third derivatives of the scale factor a(t) with respect to cosmic time t,
namely the present-day value of the deceleration parameter q_0 and the cosmic
jerk parameter, j(t). An elegant feature of this parameterization is that all
LCDM models have j(t)=1 (constant), which facilitates simple tests for
departures from the LCDM paradigm. Applying our model to the three best
available sets of redshift-independent distance measurements, from type Ia
supernovae and X-ray cluster gas mass fraction measurements, we obtain clear
statistical evidence for a late time transition from a decelerating to an
accelerating phase. For a flat model with constant jerk, j(t)=j, we measure
q_0=-0.81+-0.14 and j=2.16+0.81-0.75, results that are consistent with LCDM at
about the 1sigma confidence level. A standard `dynamical' analysis of the same
data, employing the Friedmann equations and modeling the dark energy as a fluid
with an equation of state parameter, w (constant), gives
Omega_m=0.306+0.042-0.040 and w=-1.15+0.14-0.18, also consistent with LCDM at
about the 1sigma level. In comparison to dynamical analyses, the kinematical
approach uses a different model set and employs a minimum of prior information,
being independent of any particular gravity theory. The results obtained with
this new approach therefore provide important additional information and we
argue that both kinematical and dynamical techniques should be employed in
future dark energy studies, where possible. Our results provide further
interesting support for the concordance LCDM paradigm.