We develop a very simple necessary condition for the perfect
distinguishability of any set of maximally entangled states in a $\mathbb{C}^d
\otimes \mathbb{C}^d$ system. This condition places constraints on the starting
measurement of the LOCC protocol, and, by doing so, reduces the the complexity
of the distinguishability problem, particularly for any set of $d$ maximally
entangled states (MES). To test the strength of this necessary condition we use
it for the perfect distinguishability of all sets of four generalized Bell
basis states in $\mathbb{C}^4 \otimes \mathbb{C}^4$. To do this we first
partition all $\binom{16}{4}$ such sets into $122$ equivalent classes, such
that any two sets within an equivalence class are related by action of a local
unitary performed by Alice or Bob. Thus establishing whether any such set is
perfectly distinguishable by LOCC merely requires one to know if any other set
from the same equivalence class is perfectly distinguishable by LOCC. After
this partitioning, we proceed to establish whether each of the $122$ sets are
distinguishable by LOCC by testing some representative set from each
equivalence class for the necessary condition we developed earlier on. Those
sets which do not pass the test are not perfectly distinguishable by LOCC and
are hence isolated from the remaining. Surprisingly, all sets which pass the
test are found to be perfectly distinguishable by LOCC implying that the
necessary condition is sufficient for sets of four generalized Bell States in
$\mathbb{C}^4 \otimes \mathbb{C}^4$. Even more, the sets which pass the
necessary test, can be distinguished by a one-way LOCC protocol using
projective measurements. For each set that passes the test, we give the one-way
LOCC protocol employing rank-one projective measurements for the perfect
distinguishability of states in the set.