We initiate a systematic study of sublinear-time algorithms for image
analysis that have access only to labeled random samples from the input. Most
previous sublinear-time algorithms for image analysis were query-based, that
is, they could query pixels of their choice. We consider algorithms with two
types of input access: sample-based algorithms that draw independent uniformly
random pixels, and block-sample-based algorithms that draw pixels from
independently random square blocks of the image. We investigate three basic
properties: being a half-plane, convexity, and connectedness. For the first
two, our algorithms are sample-based; for connectedness, they are
block-sample-based. All our algorithms have low sample complexity that depends
polynomially on the inverse of the error parameter and is independent of the
input size.
  We design algorithms that approximate the distance to the three properties
within a small additive error or, equivalently, tolerant testers for being a
half-plane, convexity and connectedness. Tolerant testers for these properties,
even with query access to the image, were not investigated previously.
Tolerance is important in image processing applications because it allows
algorithms to be robust to noise in the image. We also give (non-tolerant)
testers for convexity and connectedness with better complexity than our
distance approximation algorithms and previously known query-based testers.
  To obtain our algorithms for convexity, we design two fast proper PAC
learners of convex sets in two dimensions that work under the uniform
distribution: non-agnostic and agnostic.