Magnetic resonant coupling (MRC) is an efficient method for realizing the
near-field wireless power transfer (WPT). Although the MRC enabled WPT
(MRC-WPT) with a single pair of transmitter and receiver has been thoroughly
studied in the literature, there is limited work on the general setup with
multiple transmitters and/or receivers. In this paper, we consider a
point-to-multipoint MRC-WPT system with one transmitter delivering wireless
power to a set of distributed receivers. We aim to introduce new applications
of signal processing and optimization techniques to the performance
characterization and optimization in multiuser WPT via MRC. We first derive
closed-form expressions for the power drawn from the energy source at the
transmitter and that delivered to the load at each receiver. We identify a
"near-far" fairness issue in multiuser power transmission due to receivers'
distance-dependent mutual inductance with the transmitter. To tackle this
problem, we propose a centralized charging control algorithm to jointly
optimize the receivers' load resistance to minimize the total transmitter power
drawn while meeting the given power requirement of each load. For ease of
practical implementation, we also devise a distributed algorithm for the
receivers to adjust their load resistance independently in an iterative manner.
Last, we characterize the power region that constitutes all the achievable
power-tuples of the loads with their adjustable resistance. In particular, we
compare the power regions without versus with the time sharing of users' power
transmission, where it is shown that time sharing yields a larger power region
in general. Extensive simulation results are provided to validate our analysis
and corroborate our study for the multiuser MRC-WPT system.