The Magnetic Tower of Hanoi puzzle - a modified "base 3" version of the
classical Tower of Hanoi puzzle as described in earlier papers, is actually a
small set of independent sister-puzzles, depending on the "pre-coloring"
combination of the tower's posts. Starting with Red facing up on a Source post,
working through an Intermediate - colored or Neutral post, and ending Blue
facing up on a Destination post, we identify the different pre-coloring
combinations in (S,I,D) order. The Tower's pre-coloring combinations are
{[(R,B,B) / (R,R,B)] ; [(R,B,N) / (N,R,B)] ; [(N,B,N) / (N,R,N)] ; [R,N,B] ;
[(R,N,N) / (N,N,B)] ; [N,N,N]}. In this paper we investigate these
sister-puzzles, identify the algorithm that optimally solves each pre-colored
puzzle, and prove its Optimality. As it turns out, five of the six algorithms,
challenging on their own, are part of the algorithm solving the "natural", Free
Magnetic Tower of Hanoi puzzle [N,N,N]. We start by showing that the N-disk
Colored Tower [(R,B,B) / (R,R,B)] is solved by (3^N - 1)/2 moves. Defining
"Algorithm Duration" as the ratio of number of algorithm-moves solving the
puzzle to the number of algorithm-moves solving the Colored Tower, we find the
Duration-Limits for all sister-puzzles. In the order of the list above they are
{[1] ; [10/11] ; [10/11] ; [8/11] ; [7/11] ; [20/33]}. Thus, the Duration-Limit
of the Optimal Algorithm solving the Free Magnetic Tower of Hanoi puzzle is
20/33 or 606 0/00. On the road to optimally solve this colorful Magnetic
puzzle, we hit other "forward-moving" puzzle-solving algorithms. Overall we
looked at 10 pairs of integer sequences. Of the twenty integer sequences, five
are listed in the On-line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences, the other fifteen
- not yet. The large set of different solutions is a clear indication to the
freedom-of-wondering that makes this Magnetic Tower of Hanoi puzzle so
colorful.