A general structural equation model is fitted on a panel data set that
consists of $I$ correlated samples. The correlated samples could be data from
correlated populations or correlated observations from occasions of panel data.
We consider cases in which the full pseudo-normal likelihood cannot be used,
for example, in highly unbalanced data where the participating individuals do
not appear in consecutive years. The model is estimated by a partial likelihood
that would be the full and correct likelihood for independent and normal
samples. It is proved that the asymptotic standard errors (a.s.e.'s) for the
most important parameters and an overall-fit measure are the same as the
corresponding ones derived under the standard assumptions of normality and
independence for all the observations. These results are very important since
they allow us to apply classical statistical methods for inference, which use
only first- and second-order moments, to correlated and nonnormal data. Via a
simulation study we show that the a.s.e.'s based on the first two moments have
negligible bias and provide less variability than the a.s.e.'s computed by an
alternative robust estimator that utilizes up to fourth moments. Our
methodology and results are applied to real panel data, and it is shown that
the correlated samples cannot be formulated and analyzed as independent
samples. We also provide robust a.s.e.'s for the remaining parameters.
Additionally, we show in the simulation that the efficiency loss for not
considering the correlation over the samples is small and negligible in the
cases with random and fixed variables.