{\bf Motivation:} Permutation-based gene set tests are standard approaches
for testing relationshi ps between collections of related genes and an outcome
of interest in high throughput expression analyses. Using $M$ random
permutations, one can attain $p$-values as small as $1/(M+1)$. When many gene
sets are tested, we need smaller $p$-values, hence larger $M$, to achieve
significance while accounting for the n umber of simultaneous tests being made.
As a result, the number of permutations to be done rises along with the cost
per permutation. To reduce this cost, we seek parametric approximations to the
permutation distributions for gene set tes ts.
  {\bf Results:} We focus on two gene set methods related to sums and sums of
squared $t$ statistics. Our approach calculates exact relevant moments of a
weighted sum of (squared) test statistics under permutation. We find
moment-based gene set enrichment $p$-values that closely approximate the
permutation method $p$-values. The computational cost of our algorithm for
linear statistics is on the order of doing $|G|$ permutations, where $|G|$ is
the number of genes in set $G$. For the quadratic statistics, the cost is on
the order of $|G|^2$ permutations which is orders of magnitude faster than
naive permutation. We applied the permutation approximation method to three
public Parkinson's Disease expression datasets and discovered enriched gene
sets not previously discussed. In the analysis of these experiments with our
method, we are able to remove the granularity effects of permutation analyses
and have a substantial computational speedup with little cost to accura cy.
  {\bf Availability:} Methods available as a Bioconductor package, npGSEA
(www.bioconductor.org).
  {\bf Contact:} {larson.jessica@gene.com} \end{abstract}