Implicit sampling is a weighted sampling method that is used in data
assimilation, where one sequentially updates estimates of the state of a
stochastic model based on a stream of noisy or incomplete data. Here we
describe how to use implicit sampling in parameter estimation problems, where
the goal is to find parameters of a numerical model, e.g.~a partial
differential equation (PDE), such that the output of the numerical model is
compatible with (noisy) data. We use the Bayesian approach to parameter
estimation, in which a posterior probability density describes the probability
of the parameter conditioned on data and compute an empirical estimate of this
posterior with implicit sampling. Our approach generates independent samples,
so that some of the practical difficulties one encounters with Markov Chain
Monte Carlo methods, e.g.~burn-in time or correlations among dependent samples,
are avoided. We describe a new implementation of implicit sampling for
parameter estimation problems that makes use of multiple grids (coarse to fine)
and BFGS optimization coupled to adjoint equations for the required gradient
calculations. The implementation is "dimension independent", in the sense that
a well-defined finite dimensional subspace is sampled as the mesh used for
discretization of the PDE is refined. We illustrate the algorithm with an
example where we estimate a diffusion coefficient in an elliptic equation from
sparse and noisy pressure measurements. In the example, dimension\slash
mesh-independence is achieved via Karhunen-Lo\`{e}ve expansions.