We study the problem of obtaining deterministic black-box polynomial identity
testing algorithms (PIT) for algebraic branching programs (ABPs) that are
read-once and oblivious. This class has an deterministic white-box polynomial
identity testing algorithm (due to Raz and Shpilka), but prior to this work
there was no known such black-box algorithm.
  The main result of this work gives the first quasi-polynomial sized hitting
sets for size S circuits from this class, when the order of the variables is
known. As our hitting set is of size exp(lg^2 S), this is analogous (in the
terminology of boolean pseudorandomness) to a seed-length of lg^2 S, which is
the seed length of the pseudorandom generators of Nisan and
Impagliazzo-Nisan-Wigderson for read-once oblivious boolean branching programs.
  Our results are stronger for branching programs of bounded width, where we
give a hitting set of size exp(lg^2 S/lglg S), corresponding to a seed length
of lg^2 S/lglg S. This is in stark contrast to the known results for read-once
oblivious boolean branching programs of bounded width, where no pseudorandom
generator (or hitting set) with seed length o(lg^2 S) is known.
  In follow up work, we strengthened a result of Mulmuley, and showed that
derandomizing a particular case of the Noether Normalization Lemma is reducible
to black-box PIT of read-once oblivious ABPs. Using the results of the present
work, this gives a derandomization of Noether Normalization in that case, which
Mulmuley conjectured would difficult due to its relations to problems in
algebraic geometry.
  We also show that several other circuit classes can be black-box reduced to
read-once oblivious ABPs, including set-multilinear ABPs (a generalization of
depth-3 set-multilinear formulas), non-commutative ABPs (generalizing
non-commutative formulas), and (semi-)diagonal depth-4 circuits (as introduced
by Saxena).