It is well established that multiple reference sets may occur for a decision
making unit (DMU) in the non-radial DEA (data envelopment analysis) setting. As
our first contribution, we differentiate between three types of reference set.
First, we introduce the notion of unary reference set (URS) corresponding to a
given projection of an evaluated DMU. The URS includes efficient DMUs that are
active in a specific convex combination producing the projection. Because of
the occurrence of multiple URSs, we introduce the notion of maximal reference
set (MRS) and define it as the union of all the URSs associated with the given
projection. Since multiple projections may occur in non-radial DEA models, we
further define the union of the MRSs associated with all the projections as
unique global reference set (GRS) of the evaluated DMU. As the second
contribution, we propose and substantiate a general linear programming (LP)
based approach to identify the GRS. Since our approach makes the identification
through the execution of a single primal-based LP model, it is computationally
more efficient than the existing methods for its easy implementation in
practical applications. Our last contribution is to measure returns to scale
using a non-radial DEA model. This method effectively deals with the occurrence
of multiple supporting hyperplanes arising either from multiplicity of
projections or from non-full dimensionality of minimum face. Finally, an
empirical analysis is conducted based on a real-life data set to demonstrate
the ready applicability of our approach.