Deep ACS slitless grism observations and identification of stellar sources
are presented within the Great Observatories Origins Deep Survey (GOODS) North
and South fields which were obtained in the Probing Evolution And Reionization
Spectroscopically (PEARS) program. It is demonstrated that even low resolution
spectra can be a very powerful means to identify stars in the field, especially
low mass stars with stellar types M0 and later. The PEARS fields lay within the
larger GOODS fields, and we used new, deeper images to further refine the
selection of stars in the PEARS field, down to a magnitude of mz = 25 using a
newly developed stellarity parameter. The total number of stars with reliable
spectroscopic and morphological identification was 95 and 108 in the north and
south fields respectively. The sample of spectroscopically identified stars
allows constraints to be set on the thickness of the Galactic thin disk as well
as contributions from a thick disk and a halo component. We derive a thin disk
scale height, as traced by the population of M4 to M9 dwarfs along two
independent lines of sight, of h_thin = 370 +60/-65 pc. When including the more
massive M0 to M4 dwarf population, we derive h_thin = 300 +/- 70pc. In both
cases, we observe that we must include a combination of thick and halo
components in our models in order to account for the observed numbers of faint
dwarfs. The required thick disk scale height is typically h_thick=1000 pc and
the acceptable relative stellar densities of the thin disk to thick disk and
the thin disk to halo components are in the range of 0.00025<f_halo<0.0005 and
0.05<f_thick<0.08 and are somewhat dependent on whether the more massive M0 to
M4 dwarfs are included in our sample.