In conventional treatments, predictions from fixed-order perturbative QCD
calculations cannot be fixed with certainty due to ambiguities in the choice of
the renormalization scale as well as the renormalization scheme. In this paper
we present a general discussion of the constraints of the renormalization group
(RG) invariance on the choice of the renormalization scale. We adopt the RG
based equations, which incorporate the scheme parameters, for a general
exposition of RG invariance, since they simultaneously express the invariance
of physical observables under both the variation of the renormalization scale
and the renormalization scheme parameters. We then discuss the self-consistency
requirements of the RG, such as reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity, which
must be satisfied by the scale-setting method. The Principle of Minimal
Sensitivity (PMS) requires the slope of the approximant of an observable to
vanish at the renormalization point. This criterion provides a
scheme-independent estimation, but it violates the symmetry and transitivity
properties of the RG and does not reproduce the Gell-Mann-Low scale for QED
observables. The Principle of Maximum Conformality (PMC) satisfies all of the
deductions of the RG invariance - reflectivity, symmetry, and transitivity.
Using the PMC, all non-conformal $\{\beta^{\cal R}_i\}$-terms (${\cal R}$
stands for an arbitrary renormalization scheme) in the perturbative expansion
series are summed into the running coupling, and one obtains a unique,
scale-fixed, scheme-independent prediction at any finite order. The PMC scales
and the resulting finite-order PMC predictions are both to high accuracy
independent of the choice of initial renormalization scale, consistent with RG
invariance. [...More in the text...]