Experimental data from the National Air Surveillance Network of Japan from
1974 to 1996 and from independent measurements performed simultaneously in the
regions of Ljubljana (Slovenia), Odessa (Ukraine) and the Ukrainian
"Academician Vernadsky" Antarctic station (64{\deg}15'W; 65{\deg}15'S), where
the air elemental composition was determined by the standard method of
atmospheric particulate matter (PM) collection on nucleopore filters and
subsequent neutron activation analysis, were analyzed. Comparative analysis of
different pairs of atmospheric PM element concentration data sets, measured in
different regions of the Earth, revealed a stable linear (on a logarithmic
scale) correlation, showing a power law increase of every atmospheric PM
element mass and simultaneously the cause of this increase - fractal nature of
atmospheric PM genesis. Within the framework of multifractal geometry we show
that the mass (volume) distribution of atmospheric PM elemental components is a
log normal distribution, which on a logarithmic scale with respect to the
random variable (elemental component mass) is identical to normal distribution.
This means that the parameters of two-dimensional normal distribution with
respect to corresponding atmospheric PM-multifractal elemental components
measured in different regions, are a priory connected by equations of direct
and inverse linear regression, and the experimental manifestation of this fact
is the linear correlation between the concentrations of the same elemental
components in different sets of experimental atmospheric PM data.