Two new methods are proposed for linear regression analysis for data with
measurement errors. Both methods are designed to accommodate intrinsic scatter
in addition to measurement errors. The first (BCES) is a direct extension of
the ordinary least squares (OLS) estimator to allow for measurement errors. It
is quite general, allowing a) for measurement errors on both variables, b) the
measurement errors for the two variables to be dependent, c) the magnitudes of
the measurement errors to depend on the measurements, and d) other `symmetric'
lines such as the bisector and the orthogonal regression can be constructed.
The second method is a weighted least squares (WLS) estimator, which applies
only in the case where the `independent' variable is measured without error and
the magnitudes of the measurement errors on the 'dependent' variable are
independent from the measurements. Several applications are made to
extragalactic astronomy: The BCES method, when applied to data describing the
color-luminosity relations for field galaxies, yields significantly different
slopes than OLS and other estimators used in the literature. Simulations with
artificial data sets are used to evaluate the small sample performance of the
estimators. Unsurprisingly, the least-biased results are obtained when color is
treated as the dependent variable. The Tully-Fisher relation is another example
where the BCES method should be used because errors in luminosity and velocity
are correlated due to inclination corrections. We also find, via simulations,
that the WLS method is by far the best method for the Tolman surface-brightness
test, producing the smallest variance in slope by an order of magnitude.
Moreover, with WLS it is not necessary to ``reduce'' galaxies to a fiducial
surface-brightness, since this model incorporates intrinsic scatter.