In this paper, we consider a distributed detection problem for a censoring
sensor network where each sensor's communication rate is significantly reduced
by transmitting only "informative" observations to the Fusion Center (FC), and
censoring those deemed "uninformative". While the independence of data from
censoring sensors is often assumed in previous research, we explore spatial
dependence among observations. Our focus is on designing the fusion rule under
the Neyman-Pearson (NP) framework that takes into account the spatial
dependence among observations. Two transmission scenarios are considered, one
where uncensored observations are transmitted directly to the FC and second
where they are first quantized and then transmitted to further improve
transmission efficiency. Copula-based Generalized Likelihood Ratio Test (GLRT)
for censored data is proposed with both continuous and discrete messages
received at the FC corresponding to different transmission strategies. We
address the computational issues of the copula-based GLRTs involving
multidimensional integrals by presenting more efficient fusion rules, based on
the key idea of injecting controlled noise at the FC before fusion. Although,
the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is reduced by introducing controlled noise at
the receiver, simulation results demonstrate that the resulting noise-aided
fusion approach based on adding artificial noise performs very closely to the
exact copula-based GLRTs. Copula-based GLRTs and their noise-aided counterparts
by exploiting the spatial dependence greatly improve detection performance
compared with the fusion rule under independence assumption.