Area products for multi-horizon stationary black holes often have intriguing
properties, and are often (though not always) independent of the mass of the
black hole itself (depending only on various charges, angular momenta, and
moduli). Such products are often formulated in terms of the areas of inner
(Cauchy) horizons and outer (event) horizons, and sometimes include the effects
of unphysical "virtual" horizons. But the conjectured mass-independence
sometimes fails. Specifically, for the Schwarzschild-de Sitter [Kottler] black
hole in (3+1) dimensions it is shown by explicit exact calculation that the
product of event horizon area and cosmological horizon area is not mass
independent. (Including the effect of the third "virtual" horizon does not
improve the situation.) Similarly, in the Reissner-Nordstrom-anti-de Sitter
black hole in (3+1) dimensions the product of inner (Cauchy) horizon area and
event horizon area is calculated (perturbatively), and is shown to be not mass
independent. That is, the mass-independence of the product of physical horizon
areas is not generic. In spherical symmetry, whenever the quasi-local mass m(r)
is a Laurent polynomial in aerial radius, r=sqrt{A/4\pi}, there are
significantly more complicated mass-independent quantities, the elementary
symmetric polynomials built up from the complete set of horizon radii (physical
and virtual). Sometimes it is possible to eliminate the unphysical virtual
horizons, constructing combinations of physical horizon areas that are mass
independent, but they tend to be considerably more complicated than the simple
products and related constructions currently being mooted in the literature.