It is well known that by dualizing the Bochner--Lichnerowicz--Weitzenb\"{o}ck
formula, one obtains Poincar\'e-type inequalities on Riemannian manifolds
equipped with a density, which satisfy the Bakry--\'Emery Curvature-Dimension
condition (combining the Ricci curvature with the "curvature" of the density).
When the manifold has a boundary, the Reilly formula and its generalizations
may be used instead. By systematically dualizing this formula for various
combinations of boundary conditions of the domain (convex, mean-convex) and the
function (Neumann, Dirichlet), we obtain new Poincar\'e-type inequalities on
the manifold and on its boundary. For instance, we may handle Neumann
conditions on a mean-convex domain, and obtain generalizations to the
weighted-manifold setting of a purely Euclidean inequality of Colesanti,
yielding a Brunn--Minkowski concavity result for geodesic extensions of convex
domains in the manifold setting. All other previously known Poincar\'e-type
inequalities of Lichnerowicz, Brascamp--Lieb, Bobkov--Ledoux and Veysseire are
recovered, extended to the Riemannian setting and generalized into a single
unified formulation, and their appropriate versions in the presence of a
boundary are obtained. Finally, a new geometric evolution equation is proposed
which extends to the Riemannian setting the Minkowski addition operation of
convex domains, a notion previously confined to the linear setting, and for
which a novel Brunn--Minkowski inequality in the weighted-Riemannian setting is
obtained. Our framework allows to encompass the entire class of Borell's convex
measures, including heavy-tailed measures, and extends the latter class to
weighted-manifolds having negative "dimension".