The spatial interaction between two or more classes of points may cause
spatial clustering patterns such as segregation or association, which can be
tested using a nearest neighbor contingency table (NNCT). A NNCT is constructed
using the frequencies of class types of points in nearest neighbor (NN) pairs.
For the NNCT-tests, the null pattern is either complete spatial randomness
(CSR) of the points from two or more classes (called CSR independence) or
random labeling (RL). The distributions of the NNCT-test statistics depend on
the number of reflexive NNs (denoted by $R$) and the number of shared NNs
(denoted by $Q$), both of which depend on the allocation of the points. Hence
$Q$ and $R$ are fixed quantities under RL, but random variables under CSR
independence. Using their observed values in NNCT analysis makes the
distributions of the NNCT-test statistics conditional on $Q$ and $R$ under CSR
independence. In this article, I use the empirically estimated expected values
of $Q$ and $R$ under CSR independence pattern to remove the conditioning of
NNCT-tests (such a correction is called the \emph{QR-adjustment}, henceforth).
I present a Monte Carlo simulation study to compare the conditional NNCT-tests
and QR-adjusted tests under CSR independence and segregation and association
alternatives. I demonstrate that QR-adjustment does not significantly improve
the empirical size estimates under CSR independence and power estimates under
segregation or association alternatives. For illustrative purposes, I apply the
conditional and empirically corrected tests on two example data sets.