We present a set of high-resolution 3D MHD simulations of steady light,
supersonic jets, exploring the influence of jet Mach number and the ambient
medium on jet propagation and energy deposition over long distances. The
results are compared to simple self-similar scaling relations for the
morphological evolution of jet-driven structures and to previously published 2D
simulations. For this study we simulated the propagation of light jets with
internal Mach numbers 3 and 12 to lengths exceeding 100 initial jet radii in
both uniform and stratified atmospheres.
  The propagating jets asymptotically deposit approximately half of their
energy flux as thermal energy in the ambient atmosphere, almost independent of
jet Mach number or the external density gradient. Nearly one-quarter of the jet
total energy flux goes directly into dissipative heating of the ICM, supporting
arguments for effective feedback from AGNs to cluster media. The remaining
energy resides primarily in the jet and cocoon structures. Despite having
different shock distributions and magnetic field features, global trends in
energy flow are similar among the different models.
  As expected the jets advance more rapidly through stratified atmospheres than
uniform environments. The asymptotic head velocity in King-type atmospheres
shows little or no deceleration. This contrasts with jets in uniform media with
heads that are slowed as they propagate. This suggests that the energy
deposited by jets of a given length and power depends strongly on the structure
of the ambient medium. While our low-Mach jets are more easily disrupted, their
cocoons obey evolutionary scaling relations similar to the high-Mach jets.