It has been known since the work of Duskin and Pelletier four decades ago
that KH^op, the category opposite to compact Hausdorff spaces and continuous
maps, is monadic over the category of sets. It follows that KH^op is equivalent
to a possibly infinitary variety of algebras V in the sense of Slominski and
Linton. Isbell showed in 1982 that the Lawvere-Linton algebraic theory of V can
be generated using a finite number of finitary operations, together with a
single operation of countably infinite arity. In 1984, Banaschewski proved a
conjecture of Bankston by establishing a strong negative result on the
axiomatisability of KH^op. (Bankston's conjecture was independently proved by
Rosicky in 1989.) In particular, V is not a finitary variety--Isbell's result
is best possible. The problem of axiomatising V by equations has remained open.
Using the theory of Chang's MV-algebras as a key tool, along with Isbell's
fundamental insight on the semantic nature of the infinitary operation, we
provide a finite axiomatisation of V. We call $\delta$-algebras the resulting
(infinitary) algebras. Inter alia, we also give a short proof of a negative
result on the axiomatisability of KH^op a la Banaschewski; we show that KH^op
embeds fully into the finitary variety of MV-algebras as a reflective
subcategory; and we prove that any variety of algebras that is equivalent, as a
category, to KH^op, must have no non-trivial proper subvarieties. All our
proofs are self-contained up to the Stone-Weierstrass Theorem, and up to the
representation theory of MV-algebras, which we recall for the reader's
convenience.