The growing number of dimensionality reduction methods available for data
visualization has recently inspired the development of quality assessment
measures, in order to evaluate the resulting low-dimensional representation
independently from a methods' inherent criteria. Several (existing) quality
measures can be (re)formulated based on the so-called co-ranking matrix, which
subsumes all rank errors (i.e. differences between the ranking of distances
from every point to all others, comparing the low-dimensional representation to
the original data). The measures are often based on the partioning of the
co-ranking matrix into 4 submatrices, divided at the K-th row and column,
calculating a weighted combination of the sums of each submatrix. Hence, the
evaluation process typically involves plotting a graph over several (or even
all possible) settings of the parameter K. Considering simple artificial
examples, we argue that this parameter controls two notions at once, that need
not necessarily be combined, and that the rectangular shape of submatrices is
disadvantageous for an intuitive interpretation of the parameter. We debate
that quality measures, as general and flexible evaluation tools, should have
parameters with a direct and intuitive interpretation as to which specific
error types are tolerated or penalized. Therefore, we propose to replace K with
two parameters to control these notions separately, and introduce a differently
shaped weighting on the co-ranking matrix. The two new parameters can then
directly be interpreted as a threshold up to which rank errors are tolerated,
and a threshold up to which the rank-distances are significant for the
evaluation. Moreover, we propose a color representation of local quality to
visually support the evaluation process for a given mapping, where every point
in the mapping is colored according to its local contribution to the overall
quality.