In (4 + 1) gravity the assumption that the five-dimensional metric is
independent of the fifth coordinate contributorizes the extra dimension to be either
spacelike or timelike. As a consequence of this, the time coordinate and the
extra coordinate are interchangeable, which in turn allows the conception of
different scenarios in 4D from a single solution in 5D. In this paper, we make
a thorough investigation of all possible 4D scenarios, associated with this
interchange, for the well-known Kramer-Gross-Perry-Davidson-Owen set of
solutions. We show that there are {\it three} families of solutions with very
distinct geometrical and physical properties. They correspond to different sets
of values of the parameters which characterize the solutions in 5D. The
solutions of physical interest are identified on the basis of physical
requirements on the induced-matter in 4D. We find that only one family
satisfies these requirements; the other two violate the positivity of
mass-energy density. The "physical" solutions possess a lightlike singularity
which coincides with the horizon. The Schwarzschild black string solution as
well as the zero moment dipole solution of Gross and Perry are obtained in
different limits. These are analyzed in the context of Lake's geometrical
approach. We demonstrate that the parameters of the solutions in 5D are not
free, as previously considered. Instead, they are totally determined by
measurements in 4D. Namely, by the surface gravitational potential of the
astrophysical phenomena, like the Sun or other stars, modeled in Kaluza-Klein
theory. This is an important result which may help in observations for an
experimental/observational test of the theory.