Regression-based adjusted plus-minus statistics were developed in basketball
and have recently come to hockey. The purpose of these statistics is to provide
an estimate of each player's contribution to his team, independent of the
strength of his teammates, the strength of his opponents, and other variables
that are out of his control. One of the main downsides of the ordinary least
squares regression models is that the estimates have large error bounds. Since
certain pairs of teammates play together frequently, collinearity is present in
the data and is one reason for the large errors. In hockey, the relative lack
of scoring compared to basketball is another reason. To deal with these issues,
we use ridge regression, a method that is commonly used in lieu of ordinary
least squares regression when collinearity is present in the data. We also
create models that use not only goals, but also shots, Fenwick rating (shots
plus missed shots), and Corsi rating (shots, missed shots, and blocked shots).
One benefit of using these statistics is that there are roughly ten times as
many shots as goals, so there is much more data when using these statistics and
the resulting estimates have smaller error bounds. The results of our ridge
regression models are estimates of the offensive and defensive contributions of
forwards and defensemen during even strength, power play, and short handed
situations, in terms of goals per 60 minutes. The estimates are independent of
strength of teammates, strength of opponents, and the zone in which a player's
shift begins.