Network creation games model the creation and usage costs of networks formed
by a set of selfish peers. Each peer has the ability to change the network in a
limited way, e.g., by creating or deleting incident links. In doing so, a peer
can reduce its individual communication cost. Typically, these costs are
modeled by the maximum or average distance in the network. We introduce a
generalized version of the basic network creation game (BNCG). In the BNCG (by
Alon et al., SPAA 2010), each peer may replace one of its incident links by a
link to an arbitrary peer. This is done in a selfish way in order to minimize
either the maximum or average distance to all other peers. That is, each peer
works towards a network structure that allows himself to communicate
efficiently with all other peers. However, participants of large networks are
seldom interested in all peers. Rather, they want to communicate efficiently
only with a small subset of peers. Our model incorporates these (communication)
interests explicitly. In the MAX-version, each node tries to minimize its
maximum distance to nodes it is interested in.
  Given peers with interests and a communication network forming a tree, we
prove several results on the structure and quality of equilibria in our model.
For the MAX-version, we give an upper worst case bound of O(\sqrt{n}) for the
private costs in an equilibrium of n peers. Moreover, we give an equilibrium
for a circular interest graph where a node has private cost \Omega(\sqrt{n}),
showing that our bound is tight. This example can be extended such that we get
a tight bound of \Theta(\sqrt{n}) for the price of anarchy. For the case of
general communication networks we show the price of anarchy to be \Theta(n).
Additionally, we prove an interesting connection between a maximum independent
set in the interest graph and the private costs of the peers.