Bayesian graphical modeling provides an appealing way to obtain uncertainty
estimates when inferring network structures, and much recent progress has been
made for Gaussian models. These models have been used extensively in
applications to gene expression data, even in cases where there appears to be
significant deviations from the Gaussian model. For more robust inferences, it
is natural to consider extensions to t-distribution models. We argue that the
classical multivariate t-distribution, defined using a single latent Gamma
random variable to rescale a Gaussian random vector, is of little use in highly
multivariate settings, and propose other, more flexible t-distributions. Using
an independent Gamma-divisor for each component of the random vector defines
what we term the alternative t-distribution. The associated model allows one to
extract information from highly multivariate data even when most experiments
contain outliers for some of their measurements. However, the use of this
alternative model comes at increased computational cost and imposes constraints
on the achievable correlation structures, raising the need for a compromise
between the classical and alternative models. To this end we propose the use of
Dirichlet processes for adaptive clustering of the latent Gamma-scalars, each
of which may then divide a group of latent Gaussian variables. Dirichlet
processes are commonly used to cluster independent observations; here they are
used instead to cluster the dependent components of a single observation. The
resulting Dirichlet t-distribution interpolates naturally between the two
extreme cases of the classical and alternative t-distributions and combines
more appealing modeling of the multivariate dependence structure with favorable
computational properties.