An algebraic integer (AI) based time-multiplexed row-parallel architecture
and two final-reconstruction step (FRS) algorithms are proposed for the
implementation of bivariate AI-encoded 2-D discrete cosine transform (DCT). The
architecture directly realizes an error-free 2-D DCT without using FRSs between
row-column transforms, leading to an 8$\times$8 2-D DCT which is entirely free
of quantization errors in AI basis. As a result, the user-selectable accuracy
for each of the coefficients in the FRS facilitates each of the 64 coefficients
to have its precision set independently of others, avoiding the leakage of
quantization noise between channels as is the case for published DCT designs.
The proposed FRS uses two approaches based on (i) optimized Dempster-Macleod
multipliers and (ii) expansion factor scaling. This architecture enables
low-noise high-dynamic range applications in digital video processing that
requires full control of the finite-precision computation of the 2-D DCT. The
proposed architectures and FRS techniques are experimentally verified and
validated using hardware implementations that are physically realized and
verified on FPGA chip. Six designs, for 4- and 8-bit input word sizes, using
the two proposed FRS schemes, have been designed, simulated, physically
implemented and measured. The maximum clock rate and block-rate achieved among
8-bit input designs are 307.787 MHz and 38.47 MHz, respectively, implying a
pixel rate of 8$\times$307.787$\approx$2.462 GHz if eventually embedded in a
real-time video-processing system. The equivalent frame rate is about 1187.35
Hz for the image size of 1920$\times$1080. All implementations are functional
on a Xilinx Virtex-6 XC6VLX240T FPGA device.