We propose a novel method for the determination of the interquark potential
together with quark "kinetic mass'' $m_Q$ from the equal-time $Q\bar{Q}$
Bethe-Salpeter (BS) amplitude in lattice QCD. Our approach allows us to
calculate spin-dependent $Q\bar{Q}$ potentials, e.g. the spin-spin potential,
as well. In order to investigate several systematic uncertainties on such
$Q\bar{Q}$ potentials, we carry out lattice QCD simulations using quenched
gauge configurations generated with the single plaquette gauge action with
three different lattice spacings, $a \approx$ 0.093, 0.068 and 0.047 fm, and
two different physical volumes, $L \approx$ 2.2 and 3.0 fm. For heavy quarks,
we employ the relativistic heavy quark (RHQ) action which can control large
discretization errors introduced by large quark mass $m_Q$. The
spin-independent central $Q\bar{Q}$ potential for the charmonium system yields
the "Coulomb plus linear'' behavior with good scaling and small volume
dependence. We explore the quark mass dependence over the wide mass range from
the charm to beyond the bottom region, and then demonstrate that the
spin-independent central $Q\bar{Q}$ potential in the $m_Q \to \infty$ limit is
fairly consistent with the static $Q\bar{Q}$ potential obtained from Wilson
loops. The spin-spin potential at finite quark mass provides a repulsive
interaction with a finite range, which becomes narrower as the quark mass
increases. We also discuss the applicability of the $1/m_Q$ expansion approach
for the spin-spin potential.