In this paper, we construct a new class of charged, rotating solutions of $%
(n+1)$-dimensional Einstein-Born-Infeld-dilaton gravity with Liouville-type
potentials and investigate their properties. These solutions are neither
asymptotically flat nor (anti)-de Sitter. We find that these solutions can
represent black brane, with inner and outer event horizons, an extreme black
brane or a naked singularity provided the parameters of the solutions are
chosen suitably. We also compute temperature, entropy, charge, electric
potential, mass and angular momentum of the black brane solutions, and show
that these quantities satisfy the first law of thermodynamics. We find that the
conserved quantities are independent of the Born-Infeld parameter $\beta $,
while they depend on the dilaton coupling constant $\alpha$. We also find the
total mass of the black brane with infinite boundary as a function of the
entropy, the angular momenta and the charge and perform a stability analysis by
computing the heat capacity in the canonical ensemble. We find that the system
is thermally stable for $\alpha \leq 1$ independent of the values of the charge
and Born-Infeld parameters, while for $\alpha> 1$ the system has an unstable
phase. In the latter case, the solutions are stable provided $\alpha \leq
\alpha_{\max}$ and $\beta \geq \beta_{\min}$, where $% \alpha_{\max}$ and
$\beta_{\min}$ depend on the charge and the dimensionality of the spacetime.
That is the solutions are unstable for highly nonlinear electromagnetic field
or when the dilaton coupling constant is large.