Labor intensive experiments are typically required to identify the causal
disease variants from a list of disease associated variants in the genome. For
designing such experiments, candidate variants are ranked by their strength of
genetic association with the disease. However, the two commonly used measures
of genetic association, the odds-ratio (OR) and p-value, may rank variants in
different order. To integrate these two measures into a single analysis, here
we transfer the volcano plot methodology from gene expression analysis to
genetic association studies. In its original setting, volcano plots are scatter
plots of fold-change and t-test statistic (or -log of the p-value), with the
latter being more sensitive to sample size. In genetic association studies, the
OR and Pearson's chi-square statistic (or equivalently its square root, chi; or
the standardized log(OR)) can be analogously used in a volcano plot, allowing
for their visual inspection. Moreover, the geometric interpretation of these
plots leads to an intuitive method for filtering results by a combination of
both OR and chi-square statistic, which we term "regularized-chi". This method
selects associated markers by a smooth curve in the volcano plot instead of the
right-angled lines which corresponds to independent cutoffs for OR and
chi-square statistic. The regularized-chi incorporates relatively more signals
from variants with lower minor-allele-frequencies than chi-square test
statistic. As rare variants tend to have stronger functional effects,
regularized-chi is better suited to the task of prioritization of candidate
genes.