We construct the explicit form of three almost complex structures that a
Riemannian manifold with self-dual curvature admits and show that their
Nijenhuis tensors vanish so that they are integrable. This proves that
gravitational instantons with self-dual curvature admit hyper-K\"{a}hler
structure. In order to arrive at the three vector valued 1-forms defining
almost complex structure, we give a spinor description of real 4-dimensional
Riemanian manifolds with Euclidean signature in terms of two independent sets
of 2-component spinors. This is a version of the original Newman-Penrose
formalism that is appropriate to the discussion of the mathematical, as well as
physical properties of gravitational instantons. We shall build on the work of
Goldblatt who first developed an NP formalism for gravitational instantons but
we shall adopt it to differential forms in the NP basis to make the formalism
much more compact. We shall show that the spin coefficients, connection 1-form,
curvature 2-form, Ricci and Bianchi identities, as well as the Maxwell
equations naturally split up into their self-dual and anti-self-dual parts
corresponding to the two independent spin frames. We shall give the complex
dyad as well as the spinor formulation of the almost complex structures and
show that they reappear under the guise of a triad basis for the Petrov
classification of gravitational instantons. Completing the work of Salamon on
hyper-K\"ahler structure, we show that the vanishing of the Nijenhuis tensor
for all three almost complex structures depends on the choice of a self-dual
gauge for the connection which is guaranteed by virtue of the fact that the
curvature 2-form is self-dual for gravitational instantons.