The intrinsic stochasticity of gene expression can lead to large variability
in protein levels for genetically identical cells. Such variability in protein
levels can arise from infrequent synthesis of mRNAs which in turn give rise to
bursts of protein expression. Protein expression occurring in bursts has indeed
been observed experimentally and recent studies have also found evidence for
transcriptional bursting, i.e. production of mRNAs in bursts. Given that there
are distinct experimental techniques for quantifying the noise at different
stages of gene expression, it is of interest to derive analytical results
connecting experimental observations at different levels. In this work, we
consider stochastic models of gene expression for which mRNA and protein
production occurs in independent bursts. For such models, we derive analytical
expressions connecting protein and mRNA burst distributions which show how the
functional form of the mRNA burst distribution can be inferred from the protein
burst distribution. Additionally, if gene expression is repressed such that
observed protein bursts arise only from single mRNAs, we show how observations
of protein burst distributions (repressed and unrepressed) can be used to
completely determine the mRNA burst distribution. Assuming independent
contributions from individual bursts, we derive analytical expressions
connecting means and variances for burst and steady-state protein
distributions. Finally, we validate our general analytical results by
considering a specific reaction scheme involving regulation of protein bursts
by small RNAs. For a range of parameters, we derive analytical expressions for
regulated protein distributions that are validated using stochastic
simulations. The analytical results obtained in this work can thus serve as
useful inputs for a broad range of studies focusing on stochasticity in gene
expression.