Equal-arm interferometric detectors of gravitational radiation allow phase
measurements many orders of magnitude below the intrinsic phase stability of
the laser injecting light into their arms. This is because the noise in the
laser light is common to both arms, experiencing exactly the same delay, and
thus cancels when it is differenced at the photo detector. In this situation,
much lower level secondary noises then set overall performance. If, however,
the two arms have different lengths (as will necessarily be the case with
space-borne interferometers), the laser noise experiences different delays in
the two arms and will hence not directly cancel at the detector. In order to
solve this problem, a technique involving heterodyne interferometry with
unequal arm lengths and independent phase-difference readouts has been
proposed. It relies on properly time-shifting and linearly combining
independent Doppler measurements, and for this reason it has been called
Time-Delay Interferometry (or TDI). This article provides an overview of the
theory and mathematical foundations of TDI as it will be implemented by the
forthcoming space-based interferometers such as the Laser Interferometer Space
Antenna (LISA) mission. We have purposely left out from this first version of
our ``Living Review'' article on TDI all the results of more practical and
experimental nature, as well as all the aspects of TDI that the data analysts
will need to account for when analyzing the LISA TDI data combinations. Our
forthcoming ``second edition'' of this review paper will include these topics.