In recent years there has been an increased interest in statistical analysis
of data with multiple types of relations among a set of entities, mainly driven
by applications in biology, social sciences, e-commerce and marketing. Such
multi-relational data can be represented as multi-layer graphs where multiple
types of edges represent the relations and the set of vertices/nodes represents
the entities. An important learning goal in such networks is to detect an
underlying set of communities leveraging information from all the layers. For
community detection in multi-layer graphs, we consider a random graph model,
multi-layer stochastic blockmodel (MLSBM), which is an extension of the well
known stochastic block model. In this connection we also propose a model with a
restricted parameter space, restricted multi-layer stochastic blockmodel
(RMLSBM), for applications where either the network layers are sparse or the
number of communities is large or both. We derive consistency results for
community assignments through both methods where MLSBM is assumed to be the
true model, and either the number of nodes or the number of types of edges or
both grow. We compare the two methods both in terms of performance in
simulation and asymptotic performance under different asymptotic setups. We
establish the advantage of RMLSBM over MLSBM when either the growth rate of the
number of communities is high or the growth rate of the average degree of the
component graphs in the multi-graph is low. To solve the computationally
challenging problem of community assignment through maximum likelihood
estimation, we derive a variational EM algorithm. The simulation studies and
real data applications confirm the superior performance of the multi-layer
approaches in comparison to independent modeling of the layers or majority
voting.