In this paper we investigate the achievable rate of a system that includes a
nomadic transmitter with several antennas, which is received by multiple
agents, exhibiting independent channel gains and additive circular-symmetric
complex Gaussian noise. In the nomadic regime, we assume that the agents do not
have any decoding ability. These agents process their channel observations and
forward them to the final destination through lossless links with a fixed
capacity. We propose new achievable rates based on elementary compression and
also on a Wyner-Ziv (CEO-like) processing, for both fast fading and block
fading channels, as well as for general discrete channels. The simpler two
agents scheme is solved, up to an implicit equation with a single variable.
Limiting the nomadic transmitter to a circular-symmetric complex Gaussian
signalling, new upper bounds are derived for both fast and block fading, based
on the vector version of the entropy power inequality. These bounds are then
compared to the achievable rates in several extreme scenarios. The asymptotic
setting with numbers of agents and transmitter's antennas taken to infinity is
analyzed. In addition, the upper bounds are analytically shown to be tight in
several examples, while numerical calculations reveal a rather small gap in a
finite $2\times2$ setting. The advantage of the Wyner-Ziv approach over
elementary compression is shown where only the former can achieve the full
diversity-multiplexing tradeoff. We also consider the non-nomadic setting, with
agents that can decode. Here we give an achievable rate, over fast fading
channel, which combines broadcast with dirty paper coding and the decentralized
reception, which was introduced for the nomadic setting.