The $GARCH$ algorithm is the most renowned generalisation of Engle's original
proposal for modelising {\it returns}, the $ARCH$ process. Both cases are
characterised by presenting a time dependent and correlated variance or {\it
volatility}. Besides a memory parameter, $b$, (present in $ARCH$) and an
independent and identically distributed noise, $\omega $, $GARCH$ involves
another parameter, $c$, such that, for $c=0$, the standard $ARCH$ process is
reproduced. In this manuscript we use a generalised noise following a
distribution characterised by an index $q_{n}$, such that $q_{n}=1$ recovers
the Gaussian distribution. Matching low statistical moments of $GARCH$
distribution for returns with a $q$-Gaussian distribution obtained through
maximising the entropy $S_{q}=\frac{1-\sum_{i}p_{i}^{q}}{q-1}$, basis of
nonextensive statistical mechanics, we obtain a sole analytical connection
between $q$ and $(b,c,q_{n}) $ which turns out to be remarkably good when
compared with computational simulations. With this result we also derive an
analytical approximation for the stationary distribution for the (squared)
volatility. Using a generalised Kullback-Leibler relative entropy form based on
$S_{q}$, we also analyse the degree of dependence between successive returns,
$z_{t}$ and $z_{t+1}$, of GARCH(1,1) processes. This degree of dependence is
quantified by an entropic index, $q^{op}$. Our analysis points the existence of
a unique relation between the three entropic indexes $q^{op}$, $q$ and $q_{n}$
of the problem, independent of the value of $(b,c)$.