Feature selection is one of the most prominent learning tasks, especially in
high-dimensional datasets in which the goal is to understand the mechanisms
that underly the learning dataset. However most of them typically deliver just
a flat set of relevant features and provide no further information on what kind
of structures, e.g. feature groupings, might underly the set of relevant
features. In this paper we propose a new learning paradigm in which our goal is
to uncover the structures that underly the set of relevant features for a given
learning problem. We uncover two types of features sets, non-replaceable
features that contain important information about the target variable and
cannot be replaced by other features, and functionally similar features sets
that can be used interchangeably in learned models, given the presence of the
non-replaceable features, with no change in the predictive performance. To do
so we propose a new learning algorithm that learns a number of disjoint models
using a model disjointness regularization constraint together with a constraint
on the predictive agreement of the disjoint models. We explore the behavior of
our approach on a number of high-dimensional datasets, and show that, as
expected by their construction, these satisfy a number of properties. Namely,
model disjointness, a high predictive agreement, and a similar predictive
performance to models learned on the full set of relevant features. The ability
to structure the set of relevant features in such a manner can become a
valuable tool in different applications of scientific knowledge discovery.