In this thesis, which is supervised by Dr. David Penman, we examine random
interval graphs. Recall that such a graph is defined by letting $X_{1},\ldots
X_{n},Y_{1},\ldots Y_{n}$ be $2n$ independent random variables, with uniform
distribution on $[0,1]$. We then say that the $i$th of the $n$ vertices is the
interval $[X_{i},Y_{i}]$ if $X_{i}<Y_{i}$ and the interval $[Y_{i},X_{i}]$ if
$Y_{i}<X_{i}$. We then say that two vertices are adjacent if and only if the
corresponding intervals intersect.
  We recall from our MA902 essay that fact that in such a graph, each edge
arises with probability $2/3$, and use this fact to obtain estimates of the
number of edges. Next, we turn to how these edges are spread out, seeing that
(for example) the range of degrees for the vertices is much larger than
classically, by use of an interesting geometrical lemma. We further investigate
the maximum degree, showing it is always very close to the maximum possible
value $(n-1)$, and the striking result that it is equal to $(n-1)$ with
probability exactly $2/3$. We also recall a result on the minimum degree, and
contrast all these results with the much narrower range of values obtained in
the alternative \lq comparable\rq\, model $G(n,2/3)$ (defined later).
  We then study clique numbers, chromatic numbers and independence numbers in
the Random Interval Graphs, presenting (for example) a result on independence
numbers which is proved by considering the largest chain in the associated
interval order.
  Last, we make some brief remarks about other ways to define random interval
graphs, and extensions of random interval graphs, including random dot product
graphs and other ways to define random interval graphs. We also discuss some
areas these ideas should be usable in. We close with a summary and some
comments.