We present optical and submillimetre polarimetry data of the Bok globule CB3
and optical polarimetry data of the Bok globule CB246. We use each set of
polarimetry data to infer the B-field orientation in each of the clouds. The
optical data can only be used in the low density, low extinction edge regions
of clouds. The submillimetre data can only be used in the high column-density,
central regions of the clouds.
  It has previously been found that near-infrared polarisation mapping of
background stars does not accurately trace the magnetic field in dense cloud
regions. This may be due to a lack of aligned grains in dense regions. We test
this by comparing the field orientations measured by our two independent
polarimetry methods. We find that the field orientation deduced from the
optical data matches up well with the orientation estimated from the
submillimetre data. We therefore claim that both methods are accurately tracing
the same magnetic field in CB3. Hence, in this case, there must be significant
numbers of aligned dust grains in the high density region, and they do indeed
trace the magnetic field in the submillimetre.
  We find an offset of 40$\pm$14 degrees between the magnetic field orientation
and the short axis of the globule. This is consistent with the mean value of
31$\pm$3 degrees found in our previous work on prestellar cores, even though
CB3 is a protostellar core. Taken together, the six prestellar cores that we
have now studied in this way show a mean offset between magnetic field
orientation and core short axis of $\sim30\pm$3 degrees, in apparent
contradiction with some models of magnetically dominated star formation.