Background: Trace quantities of contaminating DNA are widespread in the
laboratory environment, but their presence has received little attention in the
context of high throughput sequencing. This issue is highlighted by recent
works that have rested controversial claims upon sequencing data that appear to
support the presence of unexpected exogenous species.
  Results: I used reads that preferentially aligned to alternate genomes to
infer the distribution of potential contaminant species in a set of independent
sequencing experiments. I confirmed that dilute samples are more exposed to
contaminating DNA, and, focusing on four single-cell sequencing experiments,
found that these contaminants appear to originate from a wide diversity of
clades. Although negative control libraries prepared from "blank" samples
recovered the highest-frequency contaminants, low-frequency contaminants, which
appeared to make heterogeneous contributions to samples prepared in parallel
within a single experiment, were not well controlled for. I used these results
to show that, despite heavy replication and plausible controls, contamination
can explain all of the observations used to support a recent claim that
complete genes pass from food to human blood.
  Conclusions: Contamination must be considered a potential source of signals
of exogenous species in sequencing data, even if these signals are replicated
in independent experiments, vary across conditions, or indicate a species which
seems a priori unlikely to contaminate. Negative control libraries processed in
parallel are essential to control for contaminant DNAs, but their limited
ability to recover low-frequency contaminants must be recognized.