Using the self-consistent field approximation, the static concentration waves
approach and the Onsager-type kinetics equations, the descriptions of both the
statistical thermodynamics and the kinetics of an atomic ordering of D019 phase
are developed and applied for h.c.p.-Ti-Al alloy. The model of order-disorder
phase transformation describes the phase transformation of h.c.p. solid
solution into the D019 phase. Interatomic-interaction parameters are estimated
for both approximations: one supposes temperature-independent
interatomic-interaction parameters, while the other one includes the
temperature dependence of interchange energies for Ti-Al alloy. The partial
Ti-Al phase diagrams (equilibrium compositions of the coexistent ordered and
disordered phases) are evaluated for both cases. The equation for the time
dependence of D019- type long-range order (LRO) parameter is analyzed. The
curves (showing the LRO parameter evolution) are obtained numerically for both
temperature-independent interaction energies and temperature-dependent ones.
Temperature dependence of the interatomic-interaction energies accelerates the
LRO relaxation and diminishes a spread of the values of instantaneous and
equilibrium LRO parameters versus the temperature. Both
statistical-thermodynamics and kinetics results show that equilibrium LRO
parameter for a non-stoichiometry (where an atomic fraction of alloying
component is more than 0.25) can be higher than for a stoichiometry at high
temperatures. The experimental phase diagram confirms the predicted (ordered or
disordered) states for h.c.p.-Ti-Al.