The predictive accuracy of the generalized liquid drop model (GLDM) formula
for alpha decay half-lives has been investigated in a detailed manner and a
variant of the formula with improved coefficients is proposed. The method
employs the experimental alpha half-lives of the well-known alpha standards
(REFERENCE) to obtain the coefficients of the analytical formula using the
experimental Qalpha values (the DSR-E formula), as well as the finite range
droplet model (FRDM) derived Qalpha values (the FRDMFRDM formula). The
predictive accuracy of these formulae were checked against the experimental
alpha half-lives of an independent set of nuclei (TEST) that span approximately
the same Z,A region as the standards and possess reliable alpha spectroscopic
data, and were found to yield good results for the DSR-E formula but not for
the FRDM-FRDM formula. The two formulae were used to obtain the alpha
half-lives of super-heavy (SHE) and heavy nuclides where the relative accuracy
was found to markedly improve for the FRDM-FRDM, which corroborates the
appropriateness of the FRDM masses and the GLDM prescription for high Z,A
nuclides. Further improvement resulted, especially for the FRDM-FRDM formula,
after a simple linear optimization over the calculated and experimental
half-lives of TEST was used to re-calculate the half-lives of the SHE and heavy
nuclides. The advantage of this optimization was that it required no
recalculation of the coefficients of the basic DSR-E or FRDM-FRDM formulae. The
halflives for 324 medium-mass to super-heavy alpha decaying nuclides,
calculated using these formulae and the comparison with experimental
half-lives, are presented.