Spectrophotometric indices for $18$ Galactic globular clusters, obtained from
CCD observations and careful reductions, were used to determine reliable
calibrations on metallicity $[Fe/H]$. The indices were measured in the
bandpasses adopted by Burnstein et al. (\cite{BFGK84}). Adding other
observations of Burnstein et al. (\cite{BFGK84}) we obtained our results from
an homogeneous sample of indices for $26$ globular clusters. Relations with
indices defined by other Authors and with metallicity photometric indices or
parameters were also computed. In each case the relations are quite
satisfactory. Observational data were compared with synthetic indices derived
from Buzzoni's (\cite{B89}) models and detailed discussions were performed for
$Mg_2$, $Fe_{52}$, and $H_\beta$. The observational points seem to be
systematically shifted with respect to the fiducial lines traced by the models.
The scenario confirms that a certain degree of oxygen enhancement would be
necessary to obtain a better agreement between observed data and theoretical
predictions. This enhancement, however, removes some of the disagreement, but
not all of it. The dependence of the observed $Fe_{52}$ and $H_\beta$ indices
on the metal content for different HB morphologies was considered. Finally,
some results were also discussed from a statistical point of view. A principal
component analysis was applied to the index sample to study the number of
independent parameters necessary to reproduce the observations. The whole index
set is completely consistent with a one-parameter family.