The measurement of the light scattered from extrasolar planets informs
atmospheric and formation models. With the discovery of many hot Jupiter
planets orbiting nearby stars, this motivates the development of robust methods
of characterisation from follow up observations. In this paper we discuss two
methods for determining the planetary albedo in transiting systems. First, the
most widely used method for measuring the light scattered by hot Jupiters
(Collier Cameron et al.) is investigated for application for typical echelle
spectra of a transiting planet system, showing that detection requires high
signal-to-noise ratio data of bright planets. Secondly a new Fourier analysis
method is also presented, which is model-independent and utilises the benefits
of the reduced number of unknown parameters in transiting systems. This
approach involves solving for the planet and stellar spectra in Fourier space
by least-squares. The sensitivities of the methods are determined via Monte
Carlo simulations for a range of planet-to-star fluxes. We find the Fourier
analysis method to be better suited to the ideal case of typical observations
of a well constrained transiting system than the Collier Cameron et al. method.
We apply the Fourier analysis method for extracting the light scattered by
transiting hot Jupiters from high resolution spectra to echelle spectra of HD
209458 and HD 189733. Unfortunately we are unable to improve on the previous
upper limit of the planet-to-star flux for HD 209458b set by space-based
observations. A 1{\sigma}upper limit on the planet-to-star flux of HD 189733b
is measured in the wavelength range of 558.83-599.56 nm yielding {\epsilon} <
4.5 \times 10-4. Improvement in the measurement of the upper limit of the
planet-to-star flux of this system, with ground-based capabilities, requires
data with a higher signal-to-noise ratio, and increased stability of the
telescope.