Evolution of the order parameter in condensed matter analogues of cosmological
phase transitions is discussed. It is shown that the density of the frozen-out
topological defects is set by the competition between the quench rate -- the
rate at which the phase transition is taking place -- and the relaxation rate
of the order parameter. More specifically, the characteristic domain size which
determines the typical distance separating topological defects in the new
broken symmetry phase (and, therefore, their density) is determined by the
correlation length at the instant at which the relaxation timescale of the
order parameter is equal to the time from the phase transition. This scenario
shares with the Kibble mechanism the idea that topological defects will appear
``in between'' domains with independently chosen broken symmetry vacuum.
However, it differs from the original proposal in estimating the size of such
domains through the non-equilibrium aspects of the transition (quench rate),
rather than through the Ginzburg temperature at which thermally activated
symmetry restoration can still occur in the correlation - length sized volumes
of the broken symmetry phase. This scenario can be employed to analyze recent
superfluid quench experiments carried out in bulk He$^4$ to study the analogue
of the ``cosmological'' prediction of significant vortex line production. It
can be also applied to superfluid quenches in annular geometry, as well as to
the rapid phase transition from the normal metal to superconductor, where the
symmetry breaking occurs in the order parameter with the local (rather than a
global) gauge. Cosmological implications of the revised defect formation
scenario with the critical domain size set by the freeze-out time rather than
by the Ginzburg temperature are also briefly considered.