The 2-Handed Assembly Model (2HAM) is a tile-based self-assembly model in
which, typically beginning from single tiles, arbitrarily large aggregations of
static tiles combine in pairs to form structures. The Signal-passing Tile
Assembly Model (STAM) is an extension of the 2HAM in which the tiles are
dynamically changing components which are able to alter their binding domains
as they bind together. For our first result, we demonstrate useful techniques
and transformations for converting an arbitrarily complex STAM$^+$ tile set
into an STAM$^+$ tile set where every tile has a constant, low amount of
complexity, in terms of the number and types of ``signals'' they can send, with
a trade off in scale factor.
  Using these simplifications, we prove that for each temperature $\tau>1$
there exists a 3D tile set in the 2HAM which is intrinsically universal for the
class of all 2D STAM$^+$ systems at temperature $\tau$ (where the STAM$^+$ does
not make use of the STAM's power of glue deactivation and assembly breaking, as
the tile components of the 2HAM are static and unable to change or break
bonds). This means that there is a single tile set $U$ in the 3D 2HAM which
can, for an arbitrarily complex STAM$^+$ system $S$, be configured with a
single input configuration which causes $U$ to exactly simulate $S$ at a scale
factor dependent upon $S$. Furthermore, this simulation uses only two planes of
the third dimension. This implies that there exists a 3D tile set at
temperature $2$ in the 2HAM which is intrinsically universal for the class of
all 2D STAM$^+$ systems at temperature $1$. Moreover, we show that for each
temperature $\tau>1$ there exists an STAM$^+$ tile set which is intrinsically
universal for the class of all 2D STAM$^+$ systems at temperature $\tau$,
including the case where $\tau = 1$.