Here we present timing analysis of a set of eight Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer
(RXTE) observations of the black hole candidate GX 339-4 that were taken during
its hard/low state. On long time scales, the RXTE All Sky Monitor data reveal
evidence of a 240 day periodicity, comparable to timescales expected from
warped, precessing accretion disks. On short timescales all observations save
one show evidence of a persistent f approximately equal to 0.3 Hz QPO. The
broad band (10^{-3}-10^2 Hz) power appears to be dominated by two independent
processes that can be modeled as very broad Lorentzians with Q approximately
less than 1. The coherence function between soft and hard photon variability
shows that if these are truly independent processes, then they are individually
coherent, but they are incoherent with one another. This is evidenced by the
fact that the coherence function between the hard and soft variability is near
unity between 0.005-10 Hz but shows evidence of a dip at f approximately equal
to 1 Hz. This is the region of overlap between the broad Lorentzian fits to the
PSD. Similar to Cyg X-1, the coherence also drops dramatically at frequencies
approximately greater than 10 Hz. Also similar to Cyg X-1, the hard photon
variability is seen to lag the soft photon variability with the lag time
increasing with decreasing Fourier frequency. The magnitude of this time lag
appears to be positively correlated with the flux of GX 339-4. We discuss all
of these observations in light of current theoretical models of both black hole
spectra and temporal variability.