Emission of the neutron star surface potentially contains information about
its size and thus of vital importance for high energy astrophysics. In spite of
the wealth of data on the emission of luminous accreting neutron stars, the
emission of their surfaces is hard to disentangle from their time averaged
spectra. A recent X-ray transient source XTE J1701-462 has provided a unique
dataset covering the largest ever observed luminosity range for a single
source. In this paper, we extract the spectrum of the boundary layer between
the inner part of the accretion disc and the neutron star surface with the help
of maximally spectral model-independent method. We show compelling evidences
that the energy spectrum of the boundary layer stays virtually the same over
factor of 20 variations of the source luminosity. It is rather wide and cannot
be described by a single temperature blackbody spectrum, probably because of
the inhomogeneity of the boundary layer and a spread in the colour temperature.
The observed maximum colour temperature of the boundary/spreading layer
emission of kT~2.4-2.6 keV is very close to the maximum observed colour
temperature in the photospheric radius expansion X-ray bursts, which is set by
the limiting Eddington flux at the neutron star surface. Observed stability of
the boundary layer spectrum and its maximum colour temperature strongly
supports theoretical models of the boundary/spreading layers on surfaces of
luminous accreting neutron stars, which assume the presence of a region
emitting at the local Eddington limit. Variations in the luminosity in that
case lead to changes in the size of this region, but affect less the spectral
shape. Elaboration of this model will provide solid theoretical grounds for
measurements of the neutron star sizes using the emission of the
boundary/spreading layers of luminous accreting neutron stars.