We present two independent, homogeneous, global analyses of the transit light
curves, radial velocities and spectroscopy of Kepler-4b through Kepler-8b, with
numerous differences over the previous methods. These include: 1) improved
decorrelated parameter fitting set, 2) new limb darkening coefficients, 3)
time-stamps modified to BJD for consistency with RV, 4) two different methods
for compensating for the integration-time of Kepler LC-data, 5) best-fit
secondary-eclipse depths and excluded upper limits, 6) fitted mid-transit
times, durations, depths and baseline fluxes for individual transits. We make
several new determinations: 1) We detect a secondary eclipse for Kepler-7b of
depth (47+/-14)ppm and significance 3.5-sigma. We conclude reflected light is a
more plausible origin than thermal emission and determine a geometric albedo of
Ag=(0.38+/-0.12). 2) An eccentric-orbit model for the Neptune-mass planet
Kepler-4b is marginally detected to 2-sigma confidence with e=(0.25+/-0.12). If
confirmed, this would place Kepler-4b in a similar category as GJ436b and
HAT-P-11b as an eccentric, Neptune-mass planet. 3) We find marginal (2-sigma)
evidence for Kepler-5b's secondary eclipse of depth (26+/-17)ppm. The most
plausible explanation is reflected light caused by a planet with
Ag=(0.15+/-0.10). 4) A 2.6-sigma peak in Kepler-6b TTV periodogram is detected
and is not easily explained as an aliased frequency. We find that a
resonant/non-resonant perturber, Trojan or exomoon all provide inadequate
explanations and the most likely source is stellar rotation. 5) We find
different impact parameters relative to the discovery papers in most cases, but
generally self-consistent. 6) We constrain the presence of resonant planets,
exomoons and Trojans using transit timing.