A spectrum of a hot spot, produced by radiation of accretion shock at T Tauri
star's surface, has been calculated taking into account non-LTE effects for
HeI, HeII, CaI and CaII, using LTE-calculations of spot's atmospheric
structure, calculated by Dodin & Lamzin (2012). Assuming that pre-shock gas
number density N_0 and its velocity V_0 are the same across the accretion
column, we calculated spectra of a system "star + round spot" for a set of N_0,
V_0 values and parameters, which characterized the star and the spot.
  It has been shown that theoretical spectra with an appropriate choice of the
parameters reproduce well observed veiling of photospheric absorption lines in
optical band as well as profiles and intensities of so-called narrow components
of HeII and CaI emission lines in spectra of 9 stars. We found that the
accreted gas density N_0>10^{12} cm^{-3} for all considered stars except DK
Tau. Observed spectra of 8 stars were succesfully fitted, asuming solar
abundance of calcium, but it appeared possible to fit TW Hya spectrum only
under assumption that calcium abundance in accreted gas was three times less
than solar. We derive spot's parameters by comparison of theoretical and
observed spectra, normalised to continuum level, so our results are independent
on unknown value of interstellar extinction.
  We have found that the predicted flux in CaII lines is less than observed
one, but this discrepancy can be resolved if not only high-density but also
lower density gas falls onto the star. Theoretical equivalent widths as well as
relative intensities of He\,I subordinate lines disagree significantly with
observations, presumbly due to a number of reasons: necessity to take into
account non-LTE thermal structure of upper layers of a hot spot, poorly known
collisional atomic data for HeI upper levels and inhomogeneity of the hot spot.