Hazardous persistent organic pollutants (POPs) interact in soil with the soil
organic matter (SOM) but this interaction is insufficiently understood at the
molecular level. We investigated the adsorption of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) on
soil samples with systematically modified SOM. These samples included the
original soil, the soil modified by adding a hot water extract (HWE) fraction
(soil+3 HWE and soil+6 HWE), and the pyrolyzed soil. The SOM contents increased
in the order pyrolyzed soil < original soil < soil+3 HWE < soil+6 HWE. For the
latter three samples this order was also valid for the HCB adsorption. The
pyrolyzed soil adsorbed more HCB than the other samples at low initial
concentrations, but at higher concentrations the HCB adsorption became weaker
than in the samples with HWE addition. This adsorption behaviour combined with
the differences in the chemical composition between the soil samples suggested
that alkylated aromatic, phenol, and lignin monomer compounds contributed most
to the HCB adsorption. To obtain a molecular level understanding, a test set
has been developed on the basis of elemental analysis which comprises 32
representative soil constituents. The calculated binding free energy for HCB
with each representative system shows that HCB binds to SOM stronger than to
soil minerals. For SOM, HCB binds to alkylated aromatic, phenols, lignin
monomers, and hydrophobic aliphatic compounds stronger than to polar aliphatic
compounds confirming the above adsorption isotherms. Moreover, quantitative
structure-activity relationship (QSAR) of the binding free energy with
independent physical properties of the test set systems for the first time
indicated that the polarizability, the partial charge on the carbon atoms, and
the molar volume are the most important properties controlling HCB-SOM
interactions.