A comprehensive study of relativistic and resonance effects in electron
impact excitation of (e+Fe XVII) is carried out using the BPRM method in the
relativistic close coupling approximation. Two sets of eigenfunction expansions
are employed; first, up to the n = 3 complex corresponding 37 fine-structure
levels (37CC) from 21 LS terms; second, up to the n = 4 corresponding to 89
fine-structure levels (89CC) from 49 LS terms. In contrast to previous works,
the 37CC and the 89CC collision strengths exhibit considerable differences.
Denser and broader resonances due to n = 4 are present in the 89CC results both
above and {\it below} the 37 thresholds, thus significantly affecting the
collision strengths for the primary X-ray and EUV transitions within the first
37 n = 3 levels. Extensive study of other effects on the collision strengths is
also reported: (i) electric and magnetic multipole transitions E1, E2, E3 and
M1, M2, (ii) J-partial wave convergence of dipole and non-dipole transitions,
(iii) high energy behaviour compared to other approximations. Theortical
results are benchmarked against experiments to resolve longstanding
discrepancies -- collision strengths for the three prominent X-ray lines 3C, 3D
and 3E at 15.014, 15.265, and 15.456 \AA are in good agreement with two
independent measurements on Electron-Beam-Ion-Traps (EBIT). Finally, line
ratios from a collisional-radiative model using the new collisional rates are
compared with observations from stellar coronae and EBITs to illustrate
potential applications in laboratory and astrophysical plasmas.