We present a new Bayesian approach to constrain the intrinsic parameters
(stellar mass, age) of the eclipsing binary system CEP0227 in the LMC. We
computed evolutionary models covering a broad range in chemical compositions
and in stellar mass. Independent sets of models were constructed either by
neglecting or by including a moderate convective core overshooting (beta=0.2)
during central H-burning phases. Models were also constructed either by
neglecting or by assuming a canonical (eta=0.4,0.8) or an enhanced (eta=4) mass
loss rate. The solutions were computed in three different planes:
luminosity-temperature, mass-radius and gravity-temperature. By using the Bayes
Factor, we found that the most probable solutions were obtained in the
gravity-temperature plane with a Gaussian mass prior distribution. The
evolutionary models constructed by assuming a moderate convective core
overshooting (beta=0.2) and a canonical mass loss rate (eta=0.4) give stellar
masses for the primary Cepheid M=4.14^{+0.04}_{-0.05} M_sun and for the
secondary M=4.15^{+0.04}_{-0.05} M_sun that agree at the 1% level with
dynamical measurements. Moreover, we found ages for the two components and for
the combined system t=151^{+4}_{-3} Myr that agree at the 5% level. The
solutions based on evolutionary models that neglect the mass loss attain
similar parameters, while those ones based on models that either account for an
enhanced mass loss or neglect convective core overshooting have lower Bayes
Factors and larger confidence intervals. The dependence on the mass loss rate
might be the consequence of the crude approximation we use to mimic this
phenomenon. By using the isochrone of the most probable solution and a Gaussian
prior on the LMC distance, we found a distance modulus 18.53^{+0.02}_{-0.02}
mag and a reddening value E(B-V)= 0.142^{+0.005}_{-0.010} mag that agree well
with literature estimates.