We study the problem of deterministic approximate counting of matchings and
independent sets in graphs of bounded connective constant. More generally, we
consider the problem of evaluating the partition functions of the monomer-dimer
model (which is defined as a weighted sum over all matchings where each
matching is given a weight $\gamma^{|V| - 2 |M|}$ in terms of a fixed parameter
gamma called the monomer activity) and the hard core model (which is defined as
a weighted sum over all independent sets where an independent set I is given a
weight $\lambda^{|I|}$ in terms of a fixed parameter lambda called the vertex
activity). The connective constant is a natural measure of the average degree
of a graph which has been studied extensively in combinatorics and mathematical
physics, and can be bounded by a constant even for certain unbounded degree
graphs such as those sampled from the sparse Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi model $G(n,
d/n)$.
  Our main technical contribution is to prove the best possible rates of decay
of correlations in the natural probability distributions induced by both the
hard core model and the monomer-dimer model in graphs with a given bound on the
connective constant. These results on decay of correlations are obtained using
a new framework based on the so-called message approach that has been
extensively used recently to prove such results for bounded degree graphs. We
then use these optimal decay of correlations results to obtain FPTASs for the
two problems on graphs of bounded connective constant.
  Our techniques also allow us to improve upon known bounds for decay of
correlations for the hard core model on various regular lattices, including
those obtained by Restrepo, Shin, Vigoda and Tetali (2011) for the special case
of Z^2 using sophisticated numerically intensive methods tailored to that
special case.