The framed standard model (FSM) is obtained from the standard model by
incorporating, as field variables, the frame vectors (vielbeins) in internal
symmetry space. It gives the standard Higgs boson and 3 generations of quarks
and leptons as immediate consequences. It gives moreover a fermion mass matrix
of the form: $m = m_T \alpha \alpha^\dagger$, where $\alpha$ is a vector in
generation space independent of the fermion species and rotating with changing
scale, which has already been shown to lead, generically, to up-down mixing,
neutrino oscillations and mass hierarchy. In this paper, pushing the FSM
further, one first derives to 1-loop order the RGE for the rotation of
$\alpha$, and then applies it to fit mass and mixing data as a first test of
the model. With 7 real adjustable parameters, 18 measured quantities are
fitted, most (12) to within experimental error or to better than 0.5 percent,
and the rest (6) not far off. (A summary of this fit can be found in Table 2 in
the text.) Two notable features, both generic to FSM, not just specific to the
fit, are: (i) that a theta-angle of order unity in the instanton term in QCD
would translate via rotation into a Kobayashi-Maskawa phase in the CKM matrix
of about the observed magnitude ($J \sim 10^{-5}$), (ii) that it would come out
correctly that $m_u<m_d$, despite the fact that $m_t \gg m_b, m_c \gg m_s$. Of
the 18 quantities fitted, 12 are deemed independent in the usual formulation of
the standard model. In fact, the fit gives a total of 17 independent parameters
of the standard model, but 5 of these have not been measured by experiment.