In this paper, we consider the gauge-invariant ideal structure of a
$C^*$-algebra $C^*(E,\mathcal{L},\mathcal{B})$ associated to a set-finite,
receiver set-finite and weakly left-resolving labelled space
$(E,\mathcal{L},\mathcal{B})$, where $\mathcal{L}$ is a labelling map assigning
an alphabet to each edge of the directed graph $E$ with no sinks. Under the
assumption that an accommodating set $\mathcal{B}$ is closed under taking
relative complement, it is obtained that there is a one to one correspondence
between the set of all hereditary saturated subsets of $\mathcal{B}$ and the
gauge-invariant ideals of $C^*(E,\mathcal{L},\mathcal{B})$. For this, we
introduce a quotient labelled space $(E,\mathcal{L},[\mathcal{B}]_R)$ arising
from an equivalence relation $\sim_R$ on $\mathcal{B}$ and show the existence
of the $C^*$-algebra $C^*(E,\mathcal{L},[\mathcal{B}]_R)$ generated by a
universal representation of $(E,\mathcal{L},[\mathcal{B}]_R)$. Also the
gauge-invariant uniqueness theorem for $C^*(E,\mathcal{L},[\mathcal{B}]_R)$ is
obtained.
  For simple labelled graph $C^*$-algebras
$C^*(E,\mathcal{L},\bar{\mathcal{E}})$, where $\bar{\mathcal{E}}$ is the
smallest accommodating set containing all the generalized vertices, it is
observed that if for each vertex $v$ of $E$, a generalized vertex $[v]_l$ is
finite for some $l$, then $C^*(E,\mathcal{L},\bar{\mathcal{E}})$ is simple if
and only if $(E,\mathcal{L},\bar{\mathcal{E}})$ is strongly cofinal and
disagreeable. This is done by examining the merged labelled graph
$(F,\mathcal{L}_F)$ of $(E,\mathcal{L})$ and the common properties that
$C^*(E,\mathcal{L},\bar{\mathcal{E}})$ and
$C^*(F,\mathcal{L},\bar{\mathcal{F}})$ share.