The focus of this paper is an information-theoretic study of retransmission
protocols for reliable packet communication under a secrecy constraint. The
hybrid automatic retransmission request (HARQ) protocol is revisited for a
block-fading wire-tap channel, in which two legitimate users communicate over a
block-fading channel in the presence of a passive eavesdropper who intercepts
the transmissions through an independent block-fading channel. In this model,
the transmitter obtains a 1-bit ACK/NACK feedback from the legitimate receiver
via an error-free public channel. Both reliability and confidentiality of
secure HARQ protocols are studied by the joint consideration of channel coding,
secrecy coding, and retransmission protocols. In particular, the error and
secrecy performance of repetition time diversity (RTD) and incremental
redundancy (INR) protocols are investigated based on good Wyner code sequences,
which ensure that the confidential message is decoded successfully by the
legitimate receiver and is kept in total ignorance by the eavesdropper for a
given set of channel realizations. This paper first illustrates that there
exists a good rate-compatible Wyner code family which ensures a secure INR
protocol. Next, two types of outage probabilities, connection outage and
secrecy outage probabilities are defined in order to characterize the tradeoff
between the reliability of the legitimate communication link and the
confidentiality with respect to the eavesdropper's link. For a given
connection/secrecy outage probability pair, an achievable throughput of secure
HARQ protocols is derived for block-fading channels. Finally, both asymptotic
analysis and numerical computations demonstrate the benefits of HARQ protocols
to throughput and secrecy.