We describe an automated search through the Leiden/Dwingeloo HI Survey (LDS)
for high-velocity clouds north of Dec=-28 deg. From the general catalog we
extract a sample of isolated high-velocity clouds, CHVCs: anomalous-velocity HI
clouds which are sharply bounded in angular extent with no kinematic or spatial
connection to other HI features down to a limiting column density of
1.5*10^18cm^-2. This column density is an order of magnitude lower than the
critical HI column density, about 2*10^19cm^-2, where the ionized fraction is
thought to increase dramatically due to the extragalactic radiation field. As
such, these objects are likely to provide their own shielding to ionizing
radiation. Their small median angular size, of about 1 deg. FWHM, might then
imply substantial distances, since the partially ionized HI skin in a power-law
ionizing photon field has a typical exponential scale-length of 1 kpc. The
automated search algorithm has been applied to the HIPASS and to the
Leiden/Dwingeloo data sets. The results from the LDS are described here; Putman
et al. (2002) describe application of this algorithm to the HIPASS material. We
identify 67 CHVCs in the LDS which satisfy stringent requirements on isolation,
and an additional 49 objects which satisfy somewhat less stringent
requirements. Independent confirmation is available for all of these objects,
either from earlier data in the literature or from new observations made with
the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope and reported here. The catalog
includes 54 of the 65 CHVCs listed by Braun and Burton (1999) on the basis of a
visual search of the LDS data.