Representing the conditional independences present in a multivariate random
vector via graphs has found widespread use in applications, and such
representations are popularly known as graphical models or Markov random
fields. These models have many useful properties, but their fundamental
attractive feature is their ability to reflect conditional independences
between blocks of variables through graph separation, a consequence of the
equivalence of the pairwise, local and global Markov properties demonstrated by
Pearl and Paz (1985). Modern day applications often necessitate working with
either an infinite collection of variables (such as in a spatial-temporal
field) or approximating a large high-dimensional finite stochastic system with
an infinite-dimensional system. However, it is unclear whether the conditional
independences present in an infinite-dimensional random vector or stochastic
process can still be represented by separation criteria in an infinite graph.
In light of the advantages of using graphs as tools to represent stochastic
relationships, we undertake in this paper a general study of infinite graphical
models. First, we demonstrate that naive extensions of the assumptions required
for the finite case results do not yield equivalence of the Markov properties
in the infinite-dimensional setting, thus calling for a more in-depth analysis.
To this end, we proceed to derive general conditions which do allow
representing the conditional independence in an infinite-dimensional random
system by means of graphs, and our results render the result of Pearl and Paz
as a special case of a more general phenomenon. We conclude by demonstrating
the applicability of our theory through concrete examples of
infinite-dimensional graphical models.