The renormalization scale uncertainty can be eliminated by the Principle of
Maximum Conformality (PMC) in a systematic scheme-independent way. Applying the
PMC for the $t\bar{t}$-pair hadroproduction at the NNLO level, we have found
that the total cross-sections $\sigma_{t\bar{t}}$ at both the Tevatron and LHC
remain almost unchanged when taking very disparate initial scales $\mu^{\rm
init}_R$ equal to $m_t$, $10\,m_t$, $20\,m_t$ and $\sqrt{s}$, which is
consistent with renormalization group invariance. As an important new
application, we apply PMC scale-setting to study the top-quark forward-backward
asymmetry. We observe that the more convergent perturbative series after PMC
scale-setting leads to a more accurate top-quark forward-backward asymmetry.
The resulting PMC prediction on the asymmetry is also free from the initial
renormalization scale-dependence. Because the NLO PMC scale has a dip behavior
for the $(q\bar{q})$-channel at small subprocess collision energies, the
importance of this channel to the asymmetry is increased. We observe that the
asymmetries $A_{FB}^{t\bar{t}}$ and $A_{FB}^{p\bar{p}}$ at the Tevatron will be
increased by 42% in comparison to the previous estimates obtained by using
conventional scale-setting; i.e. we obtain $A_{FB}^{t\bar{t},{\rm PMC}} \simeq
12.5%$ and $A_{FB}^{p\bar{p},{\rm PMC}} \simeq 8.28%$. Moreover, we obtain
$A_{FB}^{t\bar{t},{\rm PMC}}(M_{t\bar{t}}>450 \;{\rm GeV}) \simeq 35.0%$. These
predictions have a $1\sigma$-deviation from the present CDF and D0
measurements; the large discrepancies of the top-quark forward-backward
asymmetry between the Standard Model estimate and the CDF and D0 data are thus
greatly reduced.