In experiments, the free energy of transferring the peptide group from water
to an osmolyte solution is obtained using the transfer free energy of (Gly)_n
with the added assumption that a constant incremental change in free energy
with n implies that each additional unit makes an independent contribution to
the free energy. Here we test this assumption and uncover its limitations.
Together with results for cyclic-diglycine, we show that, in principle, it is
not possible to obtain a peptide group transfer free energy that is independent
of the model system. We calculate the hydration free energy of
acetyl-(Gly)_n-methyl amide (n=1..7) peptides modeled in the extended
conformation in water and osmolyte solutions and find that the hydration free
energy is linear in n, suggestive of independent, additive group-contributions.
To probe the observed linearity further, we study the hydration of the solute
bereft of water molecules in the first hydration shell. This conditioned solute
arises naturally in the theoretical formulation and helps us focus on hydration
effects uncluttered by the complexities of short-range solute-water
interactions. We subdivide the conditioned solute into n+1 peptide groups and a
methyl end group. The binding energy of each of these groups with the solvent
is Gaussian distributed, but the near neighbor binding energies are themselves
correlated: the (i,i+1) correlation is the strongest and tends to lower the
free energy over the independent group case. We show that the observed
linearity can be explained by the similarity of near neighbor correlations.
Implications for group additive transfer free energy models are indicated.