How does the clustering of galaxies depend on their inner properties like
morphological type and luminosity? We address this question in the mathematical
framework of marked point processes and clarify the notion of luminosity and
morphological segregation. A number of test quantities such as conditional
mark-weighted two-point correlation functions are introduced. These descriptors
allow for a scale-dependent analysis of luminosity and morphology segregation.
Moreover, they break the degeneracy between an inhomogeneous fractal point set
and actual present luminosity segregation. Using the Southern Sky Redshift
Survey~2 (da Costa et al. 1998, SSRS2) we find both luminosity and
morphological segregation at a high level of significance, confirming claims by
previous works using these data (Benoist et al. 1996, Willmer et al. 1998).
Specifically, the average luminosity and the fluctuations in the luminosity of
pairs of galaxies are enhanced out to separations of 15Mpc/h. On scales smaller
than 3Mpc/h the luminosities on galaxy pairs show a tight correlation. A
comparison with the random-field model indicates that galaxy luminosities
depend on the spatial distribution and galaxy-galaxy interactions. Early-type
galaxies are also more strongly correlated, indicating morphological
segregation. The galaxies in the PSCz catalog (Saunders et al. 2000) do not
show significant luminosity segregation. This again illustrates that mainly
early-type galaxies contribute to luminosity segregation. However, based on
several independent investigations we show that the observed luminosity
segregation can not be explained by the morphology-density relation alone.