We analyze the capacity of a continuous-time, time-selective, Rayleigh
block-fading channel in the high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) regime. The fading
process is assumed stationary within each block and to change independently
from block to block; furthermore, its realizations are not known a priori to
the transmitter and the receiver (noncoherent setting). A common approach to
analyzing the capacity of this channel is to assume that the receiver performs
matched filtering followed by sampling at symbol rate (symbol matched
filtering). This yields a discrete-time channel in which each transmitted
symbol corresponds to one output sample. Liang & Veeravalli (2004) showed that
the capacity of this discrete-time channel grows logarithmically with the SNR,
with a capacity pre-log equal to $1-{Q}/{N}$. Here, $N$ is the number of
symbols transmitted within one fading block, and $Q$ is the rank of the
covariance matrix of the discrete-time channel gains within each fading block.
In this paper, we show that symbol matched filtering is not a
capacity-achieving strategy for the underlying continuous-time channel.
Specifically, we analyze the capacity pre-log of the discrete-time channel
obtained by oversampling the continuous-time channel output, i.e., by sampling
it faster than at symbol rate. We prove that by oversampling by a factor two
one gets a capacity pre-log that is at least as large as $1-1/N$. Since the
capacity pre-log corresponding to symbol-rate sampling is $1-Q/N$, our result
implies indeed that symbol matched filtering is not capacity achieving at high
SNR.