We present a microscopic calculation of the complete quasiparticle
interaction, including central as well as noncentral components, in neutron
matter from high-precision two- and three-body forces derived within the
framework of chiral effective field theory. The contributions from two-nucleon
forces are computed in many-body perturbation theory to first and second order
(without any simplifying approximations). In addition we include the
leading-order one-loop diagrams from the N2LO chiral three-nucleon force, which
contribute to all Fermi liquid parameters except those associated with the
center-of-mass tensor interaction. The relative-momentum dependence of the
quasiparticle interaction is expanded in Legendre polynomials up to L=2.
Second-order Pauli blocking and medium polarization effects act coherently in
specific channels, namely for the Landau parameters f_1, h_0 and g_0, which
results in a dramatic increase in the quasiparticle effective mass as well as a
decrease in both the effective tensor force and the neutron matter spin
susceptibility. For densities greater than about half nuclear matter saturation
density \rho_0, the contributions to the Fermi liquid parameters from the
leading-order chiral three-nucleon force scale in all cases approximately
linearly with the nucleon density. The largest effect of the three-nucleon
force is to generate a strongly repulsive effective interaction in the
isotropic spin-independent channel. We show that the leading-order chiral
three-nucleon force leads to an increase in the spin susceptibility of neutron
matter, but we observe no evidence for a ferromagnetic spin instability in the
vicinity of the saturation density \rho_0. This work sets the foundation for
future studies of neutron matter response to weak and electromagnetic probes
with applications to neutron star structure and evolution.