We discuss questions related to the interpretation of unexpected results of
measurements of the proton form factors ratio G_E/G_M in the polarization
experiments done in JLab in the region of 0.5 < Q^2 < 8.5 GeV^2. For this
purpose, in the case of the hard scattering mechanism we calculated (in the
leading approximation) the matrix elements of the proton current J^{\pm
\delta,\delta}_p for the full set of spin combinations corresponding to the
number of the spin-flipped quarks, which contribute to the proton transition
without spin-flip (J^{\delta,\delta}_p) and with the spin-flip
(J^{-\delta,\delta}_p). This set is: (0,1), (0,3), (2,1), (2,3), where the
first number in parentheses is the number of the spin-flipped quarks, which
contribute to the J^{\delta,\delta}_p, and the second one is the number of the
spin-flipped quarks which contribute to the J^{-\delta,\delta}_p. For the sets
of (0,1) and (2,3), we found that the ratio G_E/G_M ~ 1, and the form factors
G_E and G_M behave for the set of (0,1) as G_E, G_M ~ 1/Q^6, and for the set of
(2,3) as G_E, G_M ~ 1/Q^4. At the same time the set of (0,1) is realized for
\tau << 1, and the set (2,3) for \tau >> 1 (\tau=Q^2/4m^2). This allows us to
suppose that: 1) at the lower boundary of the experimental measurements of the
ratio G_E/G_M not dipole dependence appears but the law of G_E, G_M ~ 1/Q^6; 2)
the conditions for the observation of the dipole dependence in the experiments
has not yet been achieved; 3) since for quarks J^{\delta,\delta}_q ~ 1 and
J^{-\delta,\delta}_q ~ \sqrt{\tau}, then the dipole dependence is realized when
\tau >> 1 in the case when the quark transitions with spin-flip are dominate.