Record-breaking avalanches generated by the dynamics of several driven
nonlinear threshold models are studied. Such systems are characterized by
intermittent behavior, where slow buildup of energy is punctuated by an abrupt
release of energy through avalanche events which usually follow scale invariant
statistics. From the simulations of these systems it is possible to extract
sequences of record-breaking avalanches, where each subsequent record-breaking
event is larger in magnitude than all previous events. In the present work,
several cellular automata are analyzed among them the sandpile model, Manna
model, Olami-Feder-Christensen (OFC) model, and the forest-fire model to
investigate the record-breaking statistics of model avalanches which exhibit
temporal and spatial correlations. Several statistical measures of
record-breaking events are derived analytically and confirmed through numerical
simulations. The statistics of record-breaking avalanches for the four models
are compared to that of record-breaking events extracted from the sequences of
independent identically distributed (\emph{i.i.d.}) random variables. It is
found that the statistics of record-breaking avalanches for the above cellular
automata exhibit behavior different from that observed for \emph{i.i.d.} random
variables which in turn can be used to characterize complex spatio-temporal
dynamics. The most pronounced deviations are observed in the case of the OFC
model with a strong dependence on the conservation parameter of the model. This
indicates that avalanches in the OFC model are not independent and exhibit
spatio-temporal correlations.