[ABRIDGED] The LMC star cluster system offers the unique opportunity to
independently check the accuracy of age and mass determinations based on a
number of complementary techniques, including isochrone analysis. Using our
sophisticated tool for star cluster analysis based on broad-band spectral
energy distributions (SEDs), we reanalyse the Hunter et al. (2003) LMC cluster
photometry. Our main aim is to set the tightest limits yet on the accuracy of
ABSOLUTE age determinations based on broad-band SEDs, and therefore on the
usefulness of such an approach. Our broad-band SED fits yield reliable ages,
with statistical absolute uncertainties within Delta[log(Age/yr)] = 0.4
overall. The systematic differences we find with respect to previous age
determinations are caused by conversions of the observational photometry to a
different filter system. The LMC's cluster formation rate (CFR) has been
roughly constant outside of the well-known age gap between ~3 and 13 Gyr, when
the CFR was a factor of ~5 lower. We derive the characteristic cluster
disruption time-scale, log(t_4^dis/yr) = 9.9 +- 0.1, where t_dis = t_4^dis
(M_cl/10^4 Msun)^0.62. This long characteristic disruption time-scale implies
that we are observing the INITIAL cluster mass function (CMF). We conclude that
the youngest mass and luminosity-limited LMC cluster subsets show shallower
slopes than the slope of alpha = -2 expected (at least below masses of a few x
10^3 Msun), which is contrary to dynamical expectations. This may imply that
the initial CMF slope of the LMC cluster system as a whole is NOT well
represented by a power-law, although we cannot disentangle the unbound from the
bound clusters at the youngest ages.