We present a new set of isochrones in which the effect of the alpha-element
enhancement is fully incorporated. These isochrones are an extension of the
already published set of YY Isochrones (Yi et al. 2001: Paper 1), constructed
for the scaled-solar mixture. As in Paper 1, helium diffusion and convective
core overshoot have been taken into account.The range of chemical compositions
covered is 0.00001 < Z < 0.08. The models were evolved from the
pre-main-sequence stellar birthline to the onset of helium burning in the core.
The age range of the full isochrone set is 0.1 -- 20 Gyr, while younger
isochrones of age 1 -- 80 Myr are also presented up to the main-sequence
turn-off. Combining this set with that of Paper 1 for scaled-solar mixture
isochrones, we provide a consistent set of isochrones which can be used to
investigate populations of any value of alpha-enhancement. We confirm the
earlier results of Paper 1 that inclusion of alpha-enhancement effects further
reduces the age estimates of globular clusters by approximately 8 percent if
[alpha/Fe]=+0.3. It is important to note the metallicity dependence of the
change in age estimates (larger age reductions in lower metallicities). This
reduces the age gap between the oldest metal-rich and metal-poor Galactic
stellar populations and between the halo and the disk populations. The
isochrone tables, together with interpolation routines have been made available
via internet; http://www.astro.yale.edu/demarque/yyiso.html
http://www-astro.physics.ox.ac.uk/~yi/yyiso.html
http://csaweb.yonsei.ac.kr/~kim/yyiso.html