Symmetry breaking problems are among the most well studied in the field of
distributed computing and yet the most fundamental questions about their
complexity remain open. In this paper we work in the LOCAL model (where the
input graph and underlying distributed network are identical) and study the
randomized complexity of four fundamental symmetry breaking problems on graphs:
computing MISs (maximal independent sets), maximal matchings, vertex colorings,
and ruling sets. A small sample of our results includes
  - An MIS algorithm running in $O(\log^2\Delta + 2^{O(\sqrt{\log\log n})})$
time, where $\Delta$ is the maximum degree. This is the first MIS algorithm to
improve on the 1986 algorithms of Luby and Alon, Babai, and Itai, when $\log n
\ll \Delta \ll 2^{\sqrt{\log n}}$, and comes close to the $\Omega(\log \Delta)$
lower bound of Kuhn, Moscibroda, and Wattenhofer.
  - A maximal matching algorithm running in $O(\log\Delta + \log^4\log n)$
time. This is the first significant improvement to the 1986 algorithm of
Israeli and Itai. Moreover, its dependence on $\Delta$ is provably optimal.
  - A method for reducing symmetry breaking problems in low
arboricity/degeneracy graphs to low degree graphs. (Roughly speaking, the
arboricity or degeneracy of a graph bounds the density of any subgraph.)
Corollaries of this reduction include an $O(\sqrt{\log n})$-time maximal
matching algorithm for graphs with arboricity up to $2^{\sqrt{\log n}}$ and an
$O(\log^{2/3} n)$-time MIS algorithm for graphs with arboricity up to $2^{(\log
n)^{1/3}}$.
  Each of our algorithms is based on a simple, but powerful technique for
reducing a randomized symmetry breaking task to a corresponding deterministic
one on a poly$(\log n)$-size graph.