This contribution presents a review of our present theoretical as well as
experimental knowledge of different fluctuation observables relevant to nuclear
multifragmentation. The possible connection between the presence of a
fluctuation peak and the occurrence of a phase transition or a critical
phenomenon is critically analyzed. Many different phenomena can lead both to
the creation and to the suppression of a fluctuation peak. In particular, the
role of constraints due to conservation laws and to data sorting is shown to be
essential. From the experimental point of view, a comparison of the available
fragmentation data reveals that there is a good agreement between different
data sets of basic fluctuation observables, if the fragmenting source is of
comparable size. This compatibility suggests that the fragmentation process is
largely independent of the reaction mechanism (central versus peripheral
collisions, symmetric versus asymmetric systems, light ions versus heavy ion
induced reactions). Configurational energy fluctuations, that may give
important information on the heat capacity of the fragmenting system at the
freeze out stage, are not fully compatible among different data sets and
require further analysis to properly account for Coulomb effects and secondary
decays. Some basic theoretical questions, concerning the interplay between the
dynamics of the collision and the fragmentation process, and the cluster
definition in dense and hot media, are still open and are addressed at the end
of the paper. A comparison with realistic models and/or a quantitative analysis
of the fluctuation properties will be needed to clarify in the next future the
nature of the transition observed from compound nucleus evaporation to
multi-fragment production.