The pMSSM provides a broad perspective on SUSY phenomenology. In this paper
we generate two new, very large, sets of pMSSM models with sparticle masses
extending up to 4 TeV, where the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP) is
either a neutralino or gravitino. The existence of a gravitino LSP necessitates
a detailed study of its cosmological effects and we find that Big Bang
Nucleosynthesis places strong constraints on this scenario. Both sets are
subjected to a global set of theoretical, observational and experimental
constraints resulting in a sample of \sim 225k viable models for each LSP type.
The characteristics of these two model sets are briefly compared. We confront
the neutralino LSP model set with searches for SUSY at the 7 TeV LHC using both
the missing (MET) and non-missing ET ATLAS analyses. In the MET case, we employ
Monte Carlo estimates of the ratios of the SM backgrounds at 7 and 8 TeV to
rescale the 7 TeV data-driven ATLAS backgrounds to 8 TeV. This allows us to
determine the pMSSM parameter space coverage for this collision energy. We find
that an integrated luminosity of \sim 5-20 fb^{-1} at 8 TeV would yield a
substantial increase in this coverage compared to that at 7 TeV and can probe
roughly half of the model set. If the pMSSM is not discovered during the 8 TeV
run, then our model set will be essentially void of gluinos and lightest first
and second generation squarks that are \lesssim 700-800 GeV, which is much less
than the analogous mSUGRA bound. Finally, we demonstrate that non-MET SUSY
searches continue to play an important role in exploring the pMSSM parameter
space. These two pMSSM model sets can be used as the basis for investigations
for years to come.