If a game has a Nash equilibrium with probability values that are either zero
or Omega(1) then this equilibrium can be found exhaustively in polynomial time.
Somewhat surprisingly, we show that there is a PTAS for the games whose
equilibria are guaranteed to have small-O(1/n)-values, and therefore
large-Omega(n)-supports. We also point out that there is a PTAS for games with
sparse payoff matrices, which are known to be PPAD-complete to solve exactly.
Both algorithms are of a special kind that we call oblivious: The algorithm
just samples a fixed distribution on pairs of mixed strategies, and the game is
only used to determine whether the sampled strategies comprise an eps-Nash
equilibrium; the answer is yes with inverse polynomial probability. These
results bring about the question: Is there an oblivious PTAS for Nash
equilibrium in general games? We answer this question in the negative; our
lower bound comes close to the quasi-polynomial upper bound of [Lipton,
Markakis, Mehta 2003].
  Another recent PTAS for anonymous games is also oblivious in a weaker sense
appropriate for this class of games (it samples from a fixed distribution on
unordered collections of mixed strategies), but its runtime is exponential in
1/eps. We prove that any oblivious PTAS for anonymous games with two strategies
and three player types must have 1/eps^c in the exponent of the running time
for some c>1/3, rendering the algorithm in [Daskalakis 2008] essentially
optimal within oblivious algorithms. In contrast, we devise a poly(n)
(1/eps)^O(log^2(1/eps)) non-oblivious PTAS for anonymous games with 2
strategies and any bounded number of player types.
  Our algorithm is based on the construction of a sparse (and efficiently
computable) eps-cover of the set of all possible sums of n independent
indicators, under the total variation distance. The size of the cover is
poly(n) (1/ eps^{O(log^2 (1/eps))}.