In this paper we explore first passage percolation (FPP) on the
Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi random graph $G_n(p_n)$, where each edge is given an
independent exponential edge weight with rate 1. In the sparse regime, i.e.,
when $np_n\to \lambda>1,$ we find refined asymptotics both for the minimal
weight of the path between uniformly chosen vertices in the giant component, as
well as for the hopcount (i.e., the number of edges) on this minimal weight
path. More precisely, we prove a central limit theorem for the hopcount, with
asymptotic mean and variance both equal to $\lambda/(\lambda-1)\log{n}$.
Furthermore, we prove that the minimal weight centered by $\log{n}/(\lambda-1)$
converges in distribution. We also investigate the dense regime, where $np_n
\to \infty$. We find that although the base graph is a {\it ultra small}
(meaning that graph distances between uniformly chosen vertices are
$o(\log{n})$), attaching random edge weights changes the geometry of the
network completely. Indeed, the hopcount $H_n$ satisfies the universality
property that whatever be the value of $p_n$, \ $H_n/\log{n}\to 1$ in
probability and, more precisely, $(H_n-\beta_n\log{n})/\sqrt{\log{n}}$, where
$\beta_n=\lambda_n/(\lambda_n-1)$, has a limiting standard normal distribution.
The constant $\beta_n$ can be replaced by 1 precisely when $\lambda_n\gg
\sqrt{\log{n}}$, a case that has appeared in the literature (under stronger
conditions on $\lambda_n$). We also find bounds for the maximal weight and
maximal hopcount between vertices in the graph. This paper continues the
investigation of FPP initiated by the contributors. Compared to the setting on the
configuration model studied in \cite{BHHS08}, the proofs presented here are
much simpler due to a direct relation between FPP on the Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi
random graph and thinned continuous-time branching processes.