Consider independent observations (X_1,R_1), (X_2,R_2), ..., (X_n,R_n) with
random or fixed ranks R_i in {1,2,...,k}, while conditional on R_i = r, the
random variable X_i has the same distribution as the r-th order statistic
within a random sample of size k from an unknown continuous distribution
function F. Such observation schemes are utilized in situations in which
ranking observations is much easier than obtaining their precise values. Two
wellknown special cases are ranked set sampling (McIntyre 1952) with k = n and
R_i = i, and judgement post-stratification (MacEachern et al. 2004} with R_i
being uniformly distributed on {1,2,...,k}.
  Within a rather general setting we analyze and compare the asymptotic
distribution of three different estimators of the distribution function F. The
asymptotics are for fixed number k and n tending to infinity. The three
estimators under consideration are the stratified estimator of Stokes and Sager
(1988), a new moment-based estimator, and the nonparametric maximum-likelihood
estimator of Kvam and Samaniego (1994). Our results on the latter estimator
generalize and refine the analysis of Huang (1997). It turns out that it is
asymptotically more efficient than the former two estimators. The efficiency
gain over the new estimator is typically rather small, whereas the inefficiency
of the stratified estimator may be quite severe in imbalanced settings.
  Finally we describe briefly pointwise and simultaneous confidence intervals
for the distribution function F with guaranteed coverage probability for finite
sample sizes. This may be accomplished by considering the conditional
distribution of the data, given the ranks R_1, R_2, ..., R_n. In particular,
pointwise confidence intervals for F may be obtained by adapting a method of
Terpstra and Miller (2006).