We study topological aspects of matrix models and noncommutative
cohomological field theories (N.C.CohFT). N.C.CohFT have symmetry under the
arbitrary infinitesimal noncommutative parameter $\theta$ deformation. This
fact implies that N.C.CohFT possess a less sensitive topological property than
K-theory, but the classification of manifolds by N.C.CohFT has a possibility to
give a new view point of global characterization of noncommutative manifolds.
To investigate properties of N.C.CohFT, we construct some models whose fixed
point loci are given by sets of projection operators. Particularly, the
partition function on the Moyal plane is calculated by using a matrix model.
The moduli space of the matrix model is a union of Grassman manifolds. The
partition function of the matrix model is calculated using the Euler number of
the Grassman manifold. Identifying the N.C.CohFT with the matrix model, we get
the partition function of the N.C.CohFT. To check the independence of the
noncommutative parameters, we also study the moduli space in the large $\theta$
limit and the finite $\theta$, for the Moyal plane case. If the partition
function of N.C.CohFT is topological in the sense of the noncommutative
geometry, then it should have some relation with K-theory. Therefore we
investigate certain models of CohFT and N.C.CohFT from the point of view of
K-theory. These observations give us an analogy between CohFT and N.C.CohFT in
connection with K-theory. Furthermore, we verify it for the Moyal plane and
noncommutative torus cases that our partition functions are invariant under the
those deformations which do not change the K-theory. Finally, we discuss the
noncommutative cohomological Yang-Mills theory.