In "The fundamental progroupoid of a general topos" (Journal of Pure and
Applied Algebra 212) we have introduced the notion of covering projection on a
general topos. These are locally constant objects with an additional property.
We show there that the category of covering projections trivialized by a fix
cover is an atomic topos with points. This determines a progroupoid of localic
groupoids suitable indexed by a filtered poset of covers, which generalize the
known results on the fundamental progroupoid of a locally connected topos to
general topoi. In this paper we consider simplicial families, that is,
simplicial objects in indexed by a simplicial set. We show that covering
projections can be defined as objects constructed from a descent datum of a
simplicial set on a family of sets. The simplicial set is the index of a
hypercover refinement of the cover. In particular, we show that any locally
constant object in a locally connected topos is constructed by descent from a
descent datum on a family of sets. We construct a groupoid such that the
category of covering projections trivialized by a fix hypercover is its
classifying topos. This determines a progroupoid of ordinary groupoids, this
time suitable indexed by a filtered poset of hypercovers. Thus, by switching
from covers to hypercovers we construct the fundamental progroupoid of a
general topos as a progroupoid of ordinary groupoids. This construction is
novel also in the case of locally connected topoi. The salient feature that
distinguishes these topoi is that the progroupoid is strict, which is not the
case in general.