We use a Bayesian software package to analyze CARMA-8 data towards 19
unconfirmed Planck SZ-cluster candidates from Rodriguez-Gonzalvez et al.
(2015), that are associated with significant overdensities in WISE. We used two
cluster parameterizations, one based on a (fixed shape) generalized-NFW
pressure profile and another based on a beta-gas-density profile (with varying
shape parameters) to obtain parameter estimates for the nine CARMA-8
SZ-detected clusters. We find our sample is comprised of massive,
Y_{500}=0.0010 \pm 0.0015 arcmin^2, relatively compact, theta_{500}= 3.9 \pm
2.0 arcmin systems. Results from the beta model show that our cluster
candidates exhibit a heterogeneous set of brightness-temperature profiles.
Comparison of Planck and CARMA-8 measurements showed good agreement in Y_{500}
and an absence of obvious biases. We estimated the total cluster mass M_{500}
as a function of z for one of the systems; at the preferred photometric
redshift of 0.5, the derived mass, M_{500} \approx 0.8 \pm 0.2 \times 10^{15}
Msun. Spectroscopic Keck/MOSFIRE data confirmed a galaxy member of one of our
cluster candidates to be at z=0.565. Applying a Planck prior in Y_{500} to the
CARMA-8 results reduces uncertainties for both parameters by a factor >4,
relative to the independent Planck or CARMA-8 measurements. We here demonstrate
a powerful technique to find massive clusters at intermediate z \gtrsim 0.5
redshifts using a cross-correlation between Planck and WISE data, with
high-resolution follow-up with CARMA-8. We also use the combined capabilities
of Planck and CARMA-8 to obtain a dramatic reduction by a factor of several, in
parameter uncertainties.