In the panoply of pattern classification techniques, few enjoy the intuitive
appeal and simplicity of the nearest neighbor rule: given a set of samples in
some metric domain space whose value under some function is known, we estimate
the function anywhere in the domain by giving the value of the nearest sample
per the metric. More generally, one may use the modal value of the m nearest
samples, where m is a fixed positive integer (although m=1 is known to be
admissible in the sense that no larger value is asymptotically superior in
terms of prediction error). The nearest neighbor rule is nonparametric and
extremely general, requiring in principle only that the domain be a metric
space. The classic paper on the technique, proving convergence under
independent, identically-distributed (iid) sampling, is due to Cover and Hart
(1967). Because taking samples is costly, there has been much research in
recent years on selective sampling, in which each sample is selected from a
pool of candidates ranked by a heuristic; the heuristic tries to guess which
candidate would be the most "informative" sample. Lindenbaum et al. (2004)
apply selective sampling to the nearest neighbor rule, but their approach
sacrifices the austere generality of Cover and Hart; furthermore, their
heuristic algorithm is complex and computationally expensive. Here we report
recent results that enable selective sampling in the original Cover-Hart
setting. Our results pose three selection heuristics and prove that their
nearest neighbor rule predictions converge to the true pattern. Two of the
algorithms are computationally cheap, with complexity growing linearly in the
number of samples. We believe that these results constitute an important
advance in the art.