Disks with a barotropic equilibrium structure, for which the pressure is only
a function of the density, rotate on cylinders in the presence of a
gravitational potential, so that the angular frequency of such a disk is
independent of height. Such disks with barotropic equilibria can be
approximately modeled using the shearing box framework, representing a small
disk volume with height-independent angular frequency. If the disk is in
baroclinic equilibrium, the angular frequency does in general depend on height
and it is thus necessary to go beyond the standard shearing box approach. In
this paper, we show that given a global disk model, it is possible to develop
approximate models that are local in horizontal planes without an expansion in
height with shearing-periodic boundary conditions. We refer to the resulting
framework as the vertically global shearing box. These models can be
non-axisymmetric for globally barotropic equilibria but should be axisymmetric
for globally baroclinic equilibria. We provide explicit equations for this
vertically global shearing box which can be implemented in standard
magnetohydrodynamic codes by generalizing the shearing-periodic boundary
conditions to allow for a height-dependent angular frequency and shear rate. We
also discuss the limitations that result from the radial approximations that
are needed in order to impose height-dependent shearing periodic boundary
conditions. We illustrate the potential of this framework by studying a
vertical shear instability and examining the modes associated with the
magnetorotational instability.