The presence of a colored scalar that is a weak doublet with fractional
electric charges of $|Q|=2/3$ and $|Q|=5/3$ with mass below 1,TeV can provide
an explanation of the observed branching ratios in $B \to D^{(*)} \tau \bar
\nu$ decays. The required combination of scalar and tensor operators in the
effective Hamiltonian for $b \to c \tau \bar \nu$ is generated through the
$t$-channel exchange. We focus on a scenario with a minimal set of Yukawa
couplings that can address a semitauonic puzzle and show that its resolution
puts a nontrivial bound on the product of the scalar couplings to $\bar \tau b$
and $\bar c \nu$. We also derive additional constraints posed by $Z \to b\bar
b$, muon magnetic moment, lepton flavor violating decays $\mu \to e \gamma$,
$\tau \to \mu \gamma$, $\tau \to e \gamma$, and $\tau$ electric dipole moment.
The minimal set of Yukawa couplings is not only compatible with the mass
generation in an SU(5) unification framework, a natural environment for colored
scalars, but specifies all matter mixing parameters except for one angle in the
up-type quark sector. We accordingly spell out predictions for the proton decay
signatures through gauge boson exchange and show that $p \rightarrow \pi^0 e^+$
is suppressed with respect to $p \rightarrow K^+ \bar{\nu}$ and even $p
\rightarrow K^0 e^+$ in some parts of available parameter space. Impact of the
colored scalar embedding in 45-dimensional representation of SU(5) on
low-energy phenomenology is also presented. Finally, we make predictions for
rare top and charm decays where presence of this scalar can be tested
independently.