We present an analysis of low resolution infrared spectra for 20 brown dwarf
candidates in the core of the $\rho$ Ophiuchi molecular cloud. Fifteen of the
sources display absorption-line spectra characteristic of late-type stars. By
comparing the depths of water vapor absorption bands in our candidate objects
with a grid of M dwarf standards, we derive spectral types which are
independent of reddening. Optical spectroscopy of one brown dwarf candidate
confirms the spectral type derived from the water bands. Combining their
spectral types with published near-infrared photometry, effective temperatures
and bolometric stellar luminosities are derived enabling us to place our sample
on the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. We compare the positions of the brown dwarf
candidates in this diagram with two sets of theoretical models in order to
estimate their masses and ages. Considering uncertainties in placing the
candidates in the H-R diagram, six objects consistently lie in the brown dwarf
regime and another five objects lie in the transition region between stellar
and substellar objects. The ages inferred for the sample are consistent with
those derived for higher mass association members. Three of the newly
identified brown dwarfs display infrared excesses at $\lambda$=2.2 $\mu$m
suggesting that young brown dwarfs can have active accretion disks. Comparing
our mass estimates of the brown dwarf candidates with those derived from
photometric data alone suggests that spectroscopy is an essential component of
investigations of the mass functions of young clusters.