We introduce a general framework for analyzing the thermodynamics of small
systems that are driven by both a periodic temperature variation and some
external parameter modulating their energy. This set-up covers, in particular,
periodic micro and nano-heat engines. In a first step, we show how to express
total entropy production by properly identified time-independent affinities and
currents without making a linear response assumption. In linear response,
kinetic coefficients akin to Onsager coefficients can be identified.
Specializing to a Fokker-Planck type dynamics, we show that these coefficients
can be expressed as a sum of an adiabatic contribution and one reminiscent of a
Green-Kubo expression that contains deviations from adiabaticity. Furthermore,
we show that the generalized kinetic coefficients fulfill an Onsager-Casimir
type symmetry tracing back to microscopic reversibility. This symmetry allows
for non-identical off-diagonal coefficients if the driving protocols are not
symmetric under time-reversal. We then derive a novel constraint on the kinetic
coefficients that is sharper than the second law and provides an
efficiency-dependent bound on power. As one consequence, we can prove that the
power vanishes at least linearly when approaching Carnot efficiency. We
illustrate our general framework by explicitly working out the paradigmatic
case of a Brownian heat engine realized by a colloidal particle in a
time-dependent harmonic trap subject to a periodic temperature profile. This
case study reveals inter alia that our new general bound on power is
asymptotically tight.