L-modules are a combinatorial analogue of constructible sheaves on the
reductive Borel-Serre compactification of a locally symmetric space. We define
the micro-support of an L-module; it is a set of irreducible modules for the
Levi quotients of the parabolic Q-subgroups associated to the strata. We prove
a vanishing theorem for the global cohomology of an L-module in term of the
micro-support. We calculate the micro-support of the middle weight profile
weighted cohomology and the middle perversity intersection cohomology
L-modules. (For intersection cohomology we must assume the Q-root system has no
component of type D_n, E_n, or F_4.) Finally we prove a functoriality theorem
concerning the behavior of micro-support upon restriction of an L-module to the
pre-image of a Satake stratum. As an application we settle a conjecture made
independently by Rapoport and by Goresky and MacPherson, namely, that the
intersection cohomology (for either middle perversity) of the reductive
Borel-Serre compactification of a Hermitian locally symmetric space is
isomorphic to the intersection cohomology of the Baily-Borel-Satake
compactification. We also obtain a new proof of the main result of Goresky,
Harder, and MacPherson on weighted cohomology as well as generalizations of
both of these results to general Satake compactifications with equal-rank real
boundary components.
  An overview of the theory of L-modules and the above conjecture, as well as
an application to the cohomology of arithmetic groups, can be found in
math.RT/0112250 .