We present new grids of evolutionary models for the so-colled ``Anomalous''
Cepheids (ACs), adopting Z=0.0001 and various assumptions on the progenitor
mass and mass-loss efficiency. These computations are combined with the results
of our previous set of pulsation models and used to build synthetic populations
of the predicted pulsators as well as to provide a Mass-Luminosity relation in
the absence of mass-loss. We investigate the effect of mass-loss on the
predicted boundaries of the instability strip and we find that the only
significant dependence occurs in the Period-Magnitude plane, where the
synthetic distribution of the pulsators is, on average, brighter by about 0.1
mag than the one in absence of mass-loss. Tight Period-Magnitude relations are
derived in the K band for both fundamental and first overtone pulsators,
providing a useful tool for distance evaluations with an intrinsic uncertainty
of about 0.15 mag, which decreases to about 0.04 mag if the mass term is taken
into account. The constraints provided by the evolutionary models are used to
derive evolutionary (i.e, mass-independent) Period-Magnitude-Color relations
which provide distance determinations with a formal uncertainty of the order of
about 0.1 mag, once the intrinsic colors are well known. We also use model
computations from the literature to investigate the effect of metal content
both on the instability strip and on the evolutionary Period-Magnitude-Color
relations. Finally, we compare our theoretical predictions with observed
variables and we confirm that a secure identification of actual ACs requires
the simultaneous information on period, magnitude and color, that also provide
constraints on the pulsation mode.