For fixed integers $r,\ell \geq 0$, a graph $G$ is called an {\em
$(r,\ell)$-graph} if the vertex set $V(G)$ can be partitioned into $r$
independent sets and $\ell$ cliques. This brings us to the following natural
parameterized questions: {\sc Vertex $(r,\ell)$-Partization} and {\sc Edge
$(r,\ell)$-Partization}. An input to these problems consist of a graph $G$ and
a positive integer $k$ and the objective is to decide whether there exists a
set $S\subseteq V(G)$ ($S\subseteq E(G)$) such that the deletion of $S$ from
$G$ results in an $(r,\ell)$-graph. These problems generalize well studied
problems such as {\sc Odd Cycle Transversal}, {\sc Edge Odd Cycle Transversal},
{\sc Split Vertex Deletion} and {\sc Split Edge Deletion}. We do not hope to
get parameterized algorithms for either {\sc Vertex $(r,\ell)$-Partization} or
{\sc Edge $(r,\ell)$-Partization} when either of $r$ or $\ell$ is at least $3$
as the recognition problem itself is NP-complete. This leaves the case of
$r,\ell \in \{1,2\}$. We almost complete the parameterized complexity dichotomy
for these problems. Only the parameterized complexity of {\sc Edge
$(2,2)$-Partization} remains open. We also give an approximation algorithm and
a Turing kernelization for {\sc Vertex $(r,\ell)$-Partization}. We use an
interesting finite forbidden induced graph characterization, for a class of
graphs known as $(r,\ell)$-split graphs, properly containing the class of
$(r,\ell)$-graphs. This approach to obtain approximation algorithms could be of
an independent interest.