The distribution behavior dictated by the Menzerath-Altmann (MA) law is
frequently encountered in linguistic and natural organizations at various
structural levels. The mathematical form of this empirical law comprises three
fitting parameters whose values tend to be elusive, especially in
inter-organizational studies. To allow interpretation of these parameters and
better understand such distribution behavior, we present a statistical
mechanical approach based on an analogy between the classical particles of a
statistical mechanical organization and the number of distinct words in a
textual organization. With this derivation, we achieve a transformed
(generalized) form of the MA model, termed the statistical mechanical
Menzerath-Altmann (SMMA) model. This novel transformed model consists of four
parameters, one of which is a structure-dependent input parameter, and three of
which are free-fitting parameters. Using distinct word data sets from two text
corpora, we verified that the SMMA model describes the same distribution as the
MA model. We propose that the additional structure-dependent parameter of the
SMMA model converts the three fitting parameters into structure-independent
parameters. Moreover, the parameters of the SMMA model are associated with a
corresponding physical interpretation that can lead to characterization of an
organization' s thermodynamic properties. We also propose that many
organizations presenting MA law behavior, whether linguistic or not, can be
examined by the SMMA distribution model through the properly defined structural
degeneracy parameter and the energy associated states.