Dimension reduction procedure is the recipe to represent defects in two
dimensional dislocation dynamics according to the changes in the geometrical
properties of the defects triggered by different conditions such as radiation,
high temperature, or pressure. In the present study, this procedure is extended
to incorporate further features related to the presence of defects with a
special focus on face-centered cubic/body-centered cubic alloys used for
diverse engineering purposes. In order to reflect the microstructural state of
the alloy on the computational cell of two dimensional dislocation dynamics,
the distribution of the multi-type defects over slip lines is implemented by
using corresponding strength and line spacing for each type of defect.
Additionally, a simple recursive incremental relation is set to count the loop
accumulation on the precipitates. In the case of continuous resistance against
the motion of edge dislocations on the slip lines, an expression of friction is
introduced to see its contribution on the yield strength. Each new property is
applied independently on a different material by using experimental information
about defect properties and grain sizes under the condition of plain strain
deformation: both constant and dynamically increasing obstacle strength for
precipitate coarsening in prime-aged and heat-treated
copper-chromium-zirconium, internal friction in tantalum-2.5tungsten, and mixed
hardening due to the presence of precipitates and prismatic loops in irradiated
oxide dispersion strengthened EUROFER with 0.3% yttria.