Galaxies modeled as singular isothermal ellipsoids with an axis ratio
distribution similar to the observed axis ratio distribution of E and S0
galaxies are statistically consistent with both the observed numbers of
two-image and four-image lenses and the inferred ellipticities of individual
lenses. However, no four-image lens is well fit by the model (typical
$\chi^2/N_{dof} \sim 20$), the axis ratio of the model can be significantly
different from that of the observed lens galaxy, and the major axes of the
model and the galaxy may be slightly misaligned. We found that models with a
second, independent, external shear axis could fit the data well (typical
$\chi^2/N_{dof} \sim 1$), while adding the same number of extra parameters to
the radial mass distribution does not produce such a dramatic improvement in
the fit. An independent shear axis can be produced by misalignments between the
luminous galaxy and its dark matter halo, or by external shear perturbations
due to galaxies and clusters correlated with the primary lens or along the line
of sight. We estimate that the external shear perturbations have no significant
effect on the expected numbers of two-image and four-image lenses, but that
they can be important perturbations in individual lens models. However, the
amplitudes of the external shears required to produce the good fits are larger
than our estimates for typical external shear perturbations (10-15% shear
instead of 1-3% shear) suggesting that the origin of the extra angular
structure must be intrinsic to the primary lens galaxy in most cases.