(Abridged) This paper reports new Very Large Array (VLA) and Very Long
Baseline Array (VLBA) observations of the extragalactic source B1849+005 at
frequencies between 0.33 and 15 GHz and the re-analysis of archival VLA
observations at 0.33, 1.5, and 4.9 GHz. The structure of this source is complex
but interstellar scattering dominates the structure of the central component at
least to 15 GHz. An analysis of the phase structure functions of the
interferometric visibilities shows the density fluctuations along this line of
sight to be anisotropic (axial ratio = 1.3) with a frequency-independent
position angle, and having an inner scale of roughly a few hundred kilometers.
The anisotropies occur on length scales of order 10^{15} cm (D/5 kpc), which
within the context of certain magnetohydrodynamic turbulence theories indicates
the length scale on which the kinetic and magnetic energy densities are
comparable. A conservative upper limit on the velocity of the scattering
material is 1800 km/s. In the 0.33 GHz field of view, there are a number of
other sources that might also be heavily scattered. Both B1849+005 and PSR
B1849+00 are highly scattered, and they are separated by only 13'. If the lines
of sight are affected by the same ``clump'' of scattering material, it must be
at least 2.3 kpc distant. However, a detailed attempt to account for the
scattering observables toward these sources does not produce a self-consistent
set of parameters for such a clump. A clump of H\alpha emission, possibly
associated with the H II region G33.418-0.004, lies between these two lines of
sight, but it seems unable to account for all of the required excess
scattering.