A variety of experimental techniques have improved the 2D and 3D spatial
resolution that can be extracted from \emph{in vivo} single-molecule
measurements. This enables researchers to quantitatively infer the magnitude
and directionality of forces experienced by biomolecules in their native
cellular environments. Situations where such forces are biologically relevant
range from mitosis to directed transport of protein cargo along cytoskeletal
structures. Models commonly applied to quantify single-molecule dynamics assume
that effective forces and velocity in the $x,y$ (or $x,y,z$) directions are
statistically independent, but this assumption is physically unrealistic in
many situations. We present a hypothesis testing approach capable of
determining if there is evidence of statistical dependence between positional
coordinates in experimentally measured trajectories; if the hypothesis of
independence between spatial coordinates is rejected, then a new model
accounting for 2D (3D) interactions should be considered to more faithfully
represent the underlying experimental kinetics. The technique is robust in the
sense that 2D (3D) interactions can be detected via statistical hypothesis
testing even if there is substantial inconsistency between the physical
particle's actual noise sources and the simplified model's assumed noise
structure. For example, 2D (3D) interactions can be reliably detected even if
the researcher assumes normal diffusion, but the experimental data experiences
"anomalous diffusion" and/or is subjected to a measurement noise characterized
by a distribution differing from that assumed by the fitted model. The approach
is demonstrated on control simulations and on experimental data (IFT88 directed
transport in the primary cilium).