A graph is alpha-critical if its stability number increases whenever an edge
is removed from its edge set. The class of alpha-critical graphs has several
nice structural properties, most of them related to their defect which is the
number of vertices minus two times the stability number. In particular, a
remarkable result of Lov\'asz (1978) is the finite basis theorem for
alpha-critical graphs of a fixed defect. The class of alpha-critical graphs is
also of interest for at least two topics of polyhedral studies. First,
Chv\'atal (1975) shows that each alpha-critical graph induces a rank inequality
which is facet-defining for its stable set polytope. Investigating a weighted
generalization, Lipt\'ak and Lov\'asz (2000, 2001) introduce critical
facet-graphs (which again produce facet-defining inequalities for their stable
set polytopes) and they establish a finite basis theorem. Second, Koppen (1995)
describes a construction that delivers from any alpha-critical graph a
facet-defining inequality for the linear ordering polytope. Doignon, Fiorini
and Joret (2006) handle the weighted case and thus define facet-defining
graphs. Here we investigate relationships between the two weighted
generalizations of alpha-critical graphs. We show that facet-defining graphs
(for the linear ordering polytope) are obtainable from 1-critical facet-graphs
(linked with stable set polytopes). We then use this connection to derive
various results on facet-defining graphs, the most prominent one being derived
from Lipt\'ak and Lov\'asz's finite basis theorem for critical facet-graphs. At
the end of the paper we offer an alternative proof of Lov\'asz's finite basis
theorem for alpha-critical graphs.