Consider an attributed graph whose vertices are colored green or red, but
only a few are observed to be red. The color of the other vertices is
unobserved. Typically, the unknown total number of red vertices is small. The
vertex nomination problem is to nominate one of the unobserved vertices as
being red. The edge set of the graph is a subset of the set of unordered pairs
of vertices. Suppose that each edge is also colored green or red and this is
observed for all edges. The context statistic of a vertex is defined as the
number of observed red vertices connected to it, and its content statistic is
the number of red edges incident to it. Assuming that these statistics are
independent between vertices and that red edges are more likely between red
vertices, Coppersmith and Priebe (2012) proposed a likelihood model based on
these statistics. Here, we formulate a Bayesian model using the proposed
likelihood together with prior distributions chosen for the unknown parameters
and unobserved vertex colors. From the resulting posterior distribution, the
nominated vertex is the one with the highest posterior probability of being
red. Inference is conducted using a Metropolis-within-Gibbs algorithm, and
performance is illustrated by a simulation study. Results show that (i) the
Bayesian model performs significantly better than chance; (ii) the probability
of correct nomination increases with increasing posterior probability that the
nominated vertex is red; and (iii) the Bayesian model either matches or
performs better than the method in Coppersmith and Priebe. An application
example is provided using the Enron email corpus, where vertices represent
Enron employees and their associates, observed red vertices are known
fraudsters, red edges represent email communications perceived as fraudulent,
and we wish to identify one of the latent vertices as most likely to be a
fraudster.