In the context of answer set programming, this work investigates symmetry
detection and symmetry breaking to eliminate symmetric parts of the search
space and, thereby, simplify the solution process. We contribute a reduction of
symmetry detection to a graph automorphism problem which allows to extract
symmetries of a logic program from the symmetries of the constructed coloured
graph. We also propose an encoding of symmetry-breaking constraints in terms of
permutation cycles and use only generators in this process which implicitly
represent symmetries and always with exponential compression. These ideas are
formulated as preprocessing and implemented in a completely automated flow that
first detects symmetries from a given answer set program, adds
symmetry-breaking constraints, and can be applied to any existing answer set
solver. We demonstrate computational impact on benchmarks versus direct
application of the solver.
  Furthermore, we explore symmetry breaking for answer set programming in two
domains: first, constraint answer set programming as a novel approach to
represent and solve constraint satisfaction problems, and second, distributed
nonmonotonic multi-context systems. In particular, we formulate a
translation-based approach to constraint answer set solving which allows for
the application of our symmetry detection and symmetry breaking methods. To
compare their performance with a-priori symmetry breaking techniques, we also
contribute a decomposition of the global value precedence constraint that
enforces domain consistency on the original constraint via the unit-propagation
of an answer set solver. We evaluate both options in an empirical analysis. In
the context of distributed nonmonotonic multi-context system, we develop an
algorithm for distributed symmetry detection and also carry over
symmetry-breaking constraints for distributed answer set programming.