Let $\mathbf{Q}=(Q_1,\ldots,Q_n)$ be a random vector drawn from the uniform
distribution on the set of all $n!$ permutations of $\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$. Let
$\mathbf{Z}=(Z_1,\ldots,Z_n)$, where $Z_j$ is the mean zero variance one random
variable obtained by centralizing and normalizing $Q_j$, $j=1,\ldots,n$. Assume
that $\mathbf{X}_i,i=1,\ldots,p$ are i.i.d. copies of
$\frac{1}{\sqrt{p}}\mathbf{Z}$ and $X=X_{p,n}$ is the $p\times n$ random matrix
with $\mathbf{X}_i$ as its $i$-th row. Then $S_n=XX^*$ is called the $p\times
n$ Spearman's rank correlation matrix which can be regarded as a high
dimensional extension of the classical non-parametric statistic Spearman's rank
correlation coefficient between two independent random variables. In this paper
we will establish a CLT for the linear spectral statistics of this
non-parametric random matrix model in the scenario of high dimension supposing
that $p=p(n)$ and $p/n\to c\in(0,\infty)$ as $n\to \infty$. We propose a novel
evaluation scheme to estimate the core quantity in Anderson and Zeitouni's
cumulant method in \cite{AZ2009} to bypass the so called joint cumulant
summability. In addition, we raise a {\emph{two-step comparison approach}} to
obtain the explicit formulae for the mean and covariance functions in the CLT.
Relying on this CLT we then construct a distribution-free statistic to test
complete independence for components of random vectors. Owing to the
non-parametric property, we can use this test on generally distributed random
variables including the heavy-tailed ones.