Due to the recent dramatic technological advances, infrared interferometry
can now be applied to new classes of objects, resulting in exciting new science
prospects, for instance, in the area of high-mass star formation. Although
extensively studied at various wavelengths, the process through which massive
stars form is still only poorly understood. For instance, it has been proposed
that massive stars might form like low-mass stars by mass accretion through a
circumstellar disk/envelope, or otherwise by coalescence in a dense stellar
cluster. After discussing the technological challenges which result from the
special properties of these objects, we present first near-infrared
interferometric observations, which we obtained on the massive YSO IRAS
13481-6124 using VLTI/AMBER infrared long-baseline interferometry and NTT
speckle interferometry. From our extensive data set, we reconstruct a
model-independent aperture synthesis image which shows an elongated structure
with a size of 13x19 AU, consistent with a disk seen under an inclination of 45
degree. The measured wavelength-dependent visibilities and closure phases allow
us to derive the radial disk temperature gradient and to detect a dust-free
region inside of 9.5 AU from the star, revealing qualitative and quantitative
similarities with the disks observed in low-mass star formation. In
complementary mid-infrared Spitzer and sub-millimeter APEX imaging observations
we detect two bow shocks and a molecular out ow which are oriented
perpendicular to the disk plane and indicate the presence of a bipolar outflow
emanating from the inner regions of the system.