Many common diseases have a complex genetic basis in which large numbers of
genetic variations combine with environmental and lifestyle factors to
determine risk. However, quantifying such polygenic effects and their
relationship to disease risk has been challenging. In order to address these
difficulties we developed a global measure of the information content of an
individual's genome relative to a reference population, which may be used to
assess differences in global genome structure between cases and appropriate
controls. Informally this measure, which we call relative genome information
(RGI), quantifies the relative "disorder" of an individual's genome. In order
to test its ability to predict disease risk we used RGI to compare single
nucleotide polymorphism genotypes from two independent samples of women with
early-onset breast cancer with three independent sets of controls. We found
that RGI was significantly elevated in both sets of breast cancer cases in
comparison with all three sets of controls, with disease risk rising sharply
with RGI (odds ratio greater than 12 for the highest percentile RGI).
Furthermore, we found that these differences are not due to associations with
common variants at a small number of disease-associated loci, but rather are
due to the combined associations of thousands of markers distributed throughout
the genome. Our results indicate that the information content of an
individual's genome may be used to measure the risk of a complex disease, and
suggest that early-onset breast cancer has a strongly polygenic basis.