Brown algae are sessile macro-organisms of great ecological relevance in
coastal ecosystems. They evolved independently from land plants and other
multicellular lineages, and therefore hold several original ontogenic and
metabolic features. Most brown algae grow along the coastal zone where they
face frequent environmental changes, including exposure to toxic levels of
heavy metals such as copper (Cu). We carried out large-scale transcriptomic and
metabolomic analyses to decipher the short-term acclimation of the brown algal
model E. siliculosus to Cu stress, and compared these data to results known for
other abiotic stressors. This comparison demonstrates that Cu induces oxidative
stress in E. siliculosus as illustrated by the transcriptomic overlap between
Cu and H2O2 treatments. The common response to Cu and H2O2 consisted in the
activation of the oxylipin and the repression of inositol signaling pathways,
together with the regulation of genes coding for several
transcription-associated proteins. Concomitantly, Cu stress specifically
activated a set of genes coding for orthologs of ABC transporters, a P1B-type
ATPase, ROS detoxification systems such as a vanadium-dependent
bromoperoxidase, and induced an increase of free fatty acid contents. Finally
we observed, as a common abiotic stress mechanism, the activation of autophagic
processes on one hand and the repression of genes involved in nitrogen
assimilation on the other hand. Comparisons with data from green plants
indicate that some processes involved in Cu and oxidative stress response are
conserved across these two distant lineages. At the same time the high number
of yet uncharacterized brown alga-specific genes induced in response to copper
stress underlines the potential to discover new components and molecular
interactions unique to these organisms. Of particular interest for future
research is the potential cross-talk between reactive oxygen species (ROS)-,
myo-inositol-, and oxylipin signaling.