We present high and moderate spectral resolution spectroscopy of diffuse
ionized gas (DIG) emission in the halo of NGC 891. The data were obtained with
the SparsePak integral field unit at the WIYN Observatory. The wavelength
coverage includes the [NII]6548,6583, Halpha, and [SII]6716,6731 emission
lines. Position-velocity (PV) diagrams, constructed using spectra extracted
from four SparsePak pointings in the halo, are used to examine the kinematics
of the DIG. Using two independent methods, a vertical gradient in azimuthal
velocity is found to be present in the northeast quadrant of the halo, with
magnitude approximately 15-18 km/s/kpc, in agreement with results from HI
observations. The kinematics of the DIG suggest that this gradient begins at
approximately 1 kpc above the midplane. In another part of the halo, the
southeast quadrant, the kinematics are markedly different, and suggest rotation
at about 175 km/s, much slower than the disk but with no vertical gradient. We
utilize an entirely ballistic model of disk-halo flow in an attempt to
reproduce the kinematics observed in the northeast quadrant. Analysis shows
that the velocity gradient predicted by the ballistic model is far too shallow.
Based on intensity cuts made parallel to the major axis in the ballistic model
and an Halpha image of NGC 891 from the literature, we conclude that the DIG
halo is much more centrally concentrated than the model, suggesting that
hydrodynamics dominate over ballistic motion in shaping the density structure
of the halo. Velocity dispersion measurements along the minor axis of NGC 891
seem to indicate a lack of radial motions in the halo, but the uncertainties do
not allow us to set firm limits.