Strongly interacting Fermi gasses at low density possess universal
thermodynamic properties which have recently seen very precise $PVT$
measurements by a group at MIT. This group determined local thermodynamic
properties of a system of ultra cold $^6\mbox{Li}$ atoms tuned to Feshbach
resonance. In this paper, I analyze the MIT data with a thermodynamic theory of
unitary thermodynamics based on ideas from critical phenomena. This theory was
introduced in the first paper of this sequence, and characterizes the scaled
thermodynamics by the entropy per particle $z= S/N k_B$, and energy per
particle $Y(z)$, in units of the Fermi energy. $Y(z)$ is in two segments,
separated by a second-order phase transition at $z=z_c$: a "normal" segment for
$z>z_c$, and a "superfluid" segment for $z<z_c$. For small $z$, the theory
obeys a series $Y(z)=y_0+y_1 z^{\alpha }+y_2 z^{2 \alpha}+\cdots,$ where
$\alpha$ is a constant exponent, and $y_i$ ($i\ge 0$) are constant series
coefficients. For large $z$, the theory obeys a perturbation of the ideal gas
$Y(z)= \tilde{y}_0\,\mbox{exp}[2\gamma z/3]+
\tilde{y}_1\,\mbox{exp}[(2\gamma/3-1)z]+
\tilde{y}_2\,\mbox{exp}[(2\gamma/3-2)z]+\cdots$ where $\gamma$ is a constant
exponent, and $\tilde{y}_i$ ($i\ge 0$) are constant series coefficients. This
limiting form for large $z$ differs from the series used in the first paper,
and was necessary to fit the MIT data. I fit the MIT data by adjusting four
free independent theory parameters: $(\alpha,\gamma,\tilde{y}_0,\tilde{y}_1)$.
This fit process was augmented by trap integration and comparison with earlier
thermal data taken at Duke University. The overall match to both the data sets
was good, and had $\alpha=1.21(3)$, $\gamma=1.21(3)$, $z_c=0.69(2)$, scaled
critical temperature $T_c/T_F=0.161(3)$, where $T_F$ is the Fermi temperature,
and Bertsch parameter $\xi_B=0.368(5)$.