A modeling strategy that is adapted to the study of synchrotron-self absorbed
plasmoids that was developed for the quasar, Mrk 231, in Reynolds et al (2009)
is applied to the microquasar GRS 1915+105. The major flare from December 1993
shows spectral evidence of three such self-absorbed components. The analysis
yields an estimate of the power that is required to eject the plasmoids from
the central engine that is independent of other estimates that exist in the
literature for different flares. The technique has an advantage since the
absorbed spectrum contains an independent constraint provided by the optical
depth at each epoch of observation. The modeling procedure presented here
self-consistently determines the dimensions of the radio emitting plasma from
the spectral shape. Thus, structural dimensions are determined analytically
that can be much smaller than interferometer beam-widths. A synthesis of the
time evolution of the components allows one to address the fundamental
uncertainties in previous estimates. First, the plasma is not protonic, but it
is comprised of an electron-positron gas. The minimum electron energy is
determined to be less than six times the electron rest mass energy. The
analysis also indicates that the plasmoids are ejected from the central engine
magnetically dominated. The temporal behavior is one of magnetic energy
conversion to mechanical energy as the plasmoids approach equipartition. The
time dependent models bound the impulsive energy flux, $Q$, required to eject
the individual major flare plasmoids from the central engine to, $4.1 \times
10^{37}\mathrm{erg/s}< Q < 6.1 \times 10^{38} \mathrm {ergs/s}$.