The result of computational operations performed at the single cell level are
coded into sequences of action potentials (APs). In the cerebral cortex, due to
its columnar organization, large number of neurons are involved in any
individual processing task. It is therefore important to understand how the
properties of coding at the level of neuronal populations are determined by the
dynamics of single neuron AP generation. Here we analyze how the AP generating
mechanism determines the speed with which an ensemble of neurons can represent
transient stochastic input signals. We analyze a generalization of the
$\theta$-neuron, the normal form of the dynamics of Type-I excitable membranes.
Using a novel sparse matrix representation of the Fokker-Planck equation, which
describes the ensemble dynamics, we calculate the transmission functions for
small modulations of the mean current and noise noise amplitude. In the
high-frequency limit the transmission function decays as $\omega^{-\gamma}$,
where $\gamma$ surprisingly depends on the phase $\theta_{s}$ at which APs are
emitted. In a physiologically plausible regime up to 1kHz the typical response
speed is, however, independent of the high-frequency limit and is set by the
rapidness of the AP onset, as revealed by the full transmission function. In
this regime modulations of the noise amplitude can be transmitted faithfully up
to much higher frequencies than modulations in the mean input current. We
finally show that the linear response approach used is valid for a large regime
of stimulus amplitudes.