We present the results of a numerical investigation of the turbulent
kinematic dynamo problem in a high Prandtl number regime. The scales of the
magnetic turbulence we consider are far smaller than the Kolmogorov dissipative
scale, so that the magnetic wavepackets evolve in a nearly smooth velocity
field. Firstly, we consider the Kraichnan-Kazantsev model (KKM) in which the
strain matrix is taken to be independent of coordinate and Gaussian white in
time. To simulate the KKM we use a stochastic Euler-Maruyama method. We test
the theoretical predictions for the growth of rates of the magnetic energy and
higher order moments (Kazantsev, 1968; Kulsrud & Anderson, 1992; Chertkov et
al., 1999), the shape of the energy spectrum (Kazantsev, 1968; Kulsrud &
Anderson, 1992; Schekochihin et al., 2000a; Nazarenko et al., 2003) and the
behaviour of the polarisation and spectral flatness Nazarenko et al., 2003). In
general, the results appear to be in good agreement with the theory, with the
exception that the predicted decay of the polarisation in time is not
reproduced well in the stochastic numerics. Secondly, in order to study the
sensitivity of the KKM predictions to the choice of strain statistics, we
perform additional simulations for the case of a Gaussian strain with a finite
correlation time and also for a strain taken from a DNS data set. These
experiments are based on non-stochastic schemes, using a timestep that is much
smaller than the correlation time of the strain. We find that the KKM is
generally insensitive to the choice of strain statistics and most KKM results,
including the decay of the polarisation, are reproduced well. The only
exception appears to be the flatness whose spectrum is not reproduced in
accordance with the KKM predictions in these simulations.