This article presents a set of spectro-goniometric measurements of different
water ice samples and the comparison with an approximated radiative transfer
model. The experiments were done using the spectro-radiogoniometer described in
Brissaud et al. (2004). The radiative transfer model assumes an isotropization
of the flux after the second interface and is fully described in Andrieu et al.
(2015). Two kind of experiments were conducted. First, the specular spot was
closely investigated, at high angular resolution, at the wavelength of
$1.5\,\mbox{\mu m}$, where ice behaves as a very absorbing media. Second, the
bidirectional reflectance was sampled at various geometries, including low
phase angles on 61 wavelengths ranging from $0.8\,\mbox{\mu m}$ to
$2.0\,\mbox{\mu m}$.
  In order to validate the model, we made a qualitative test to demonstrate the
relative isotropization of the flux. We also conducted quantitative assessments
by using a bayesian inversion method in order to estimate the parameters (e.g.
sample thickness, surface roughness) from the radiative measurements only. A
simple comparison between the retrieved parameters and the direct independent
measurements allowed us to validate the model.
  We developed an innovative bayesian inversion approach to quantitatively
estimate the uncertainties on the parameters avoiding the usual slow Monte
Carlo approach. First we built lookup tables, and then searched the best fits
and calculated a posteriori density probability functions. The results show
that the model is able to reproduce the spectral behavior of water ice slabs,
as well as the specular spot. In addition, the different parameters of the
model are compatible with independent measurements.