Primordial fluctuations in the relative number densities of particles, or
isocurvature perturbations, are generally well constrained by cosmic microwave
background (CMB) data. A less probed mode is the compensated isocurvature
perturbation (CIP), a fluctuation in the relative number densities of cold dark
matter and baryons. In the curvaton model, a sub-dominant field during
inflation later sets the primordial curvature fluctuation $\zeta$. In some
curvaton-decay scenarios, the baryon and cold dark matter isocurvature
fluctuations nearly cancel, leaving a large CIP correlated with $\zeta$. This
correlation can be used to probe these CIPs more sensitively than the
uncorrelated CIPs considered in past work, essentially by measuring the
squeezed bispectrum of the CMB for triangles whose shortest side is limited by
the sound horizon. Here, the sensitivity of existing and future CMB experiments
to correlated CIPs is assessed, with an eye towards testing specific
curvaton-decay scenarios. The planned CMB Stage-4 experiment could detect the
largest CIPs attainable in curvaton scenarios with more than 3$\sigma$
significance. The significance could improve if small-scale CMB polarization
foregrounds can be effectively subtracted. As a result, future CMB observations
could discriminate between some curvaton-decay scenarios in which baryon number
and dark matter are produced during different epochs relative to curvaton
decay. Independent of the specific motivation for the origin of a correlated
CIP perturbation, cross-correlation of CIP reconstructions with the primary CMB
can improve the signal-to-noise ratio of a CIP detection. For fully correlated
CIPs the improvement is a factor of $\sim2-3$.