We present new determinations of the MS-bar charm quark mass using
relativistic QCD sum rules at O(alpha_s^3) from the moments of the vector and
the pseudoscalar current correlators. We use available experimental
measurements from e+e- collisions and lattice simulation results, respectively.
Our analysis of the theoretical uncertainties is based on different
implementations of the perturbative series and on independent variations of the
renormalization scales for the mass and the strong coupling. Taking into
account the resulting set of series to estimate perturbative uncertainties is
crucial, since some ways to treat the perturbative expansion can exhibit
extraordinarily small scale dependence when the two scales are set equal. As an
additional refinement, we address the issue that double scale variation could
overestimate the perturbative uncertainties. We supplement the analysis with a
test that quantifies the convergence rate of each perturbative series by a
single number. We find that this convergence test allows to determine an
overall and average convergence rate that is characteristic for the series
expansions of each moment, and to discard those series for which the
convergence rate is significantly worse. We obtain mc(mc) = 1.288 +- 0.020 GeV
from the vector correlator. The method is also applied to the extraction of the
MS-bar bottom quark mass from the vector correlator. We compute the
experimental moments including a modeling uncertainty associated to the
continuum region where no data is available. We obtain mb(mb) = 4.176 +- 0.023
GeV.