We propose a new method for extracting the non-Gaussian signatures on the
isotemperature statistics in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) sky, which
is induced by the gravitational lensing due to the intervening large-scale
structure of the universe. To develop the method, we focus on a specific
statistical property of the intrinsic Gaussian CMB field; a field point in the
map that has a larger absolute value of the temperature threshold tends to have
a larger absolute value of the curvature parameter defined by a trace of second
derivative matrix of the temperature field, while the ellipticity parameter
similarly defined is uniformly distributed independently of the threshold
because of the isotropic nature of the Gaussian field. The weak lensing then
causes a stronger distortion effect on the isotemperature contours with higher
threshold and especially induces a coherent distribution of the ellipticity
parameter correlated with the threshold as a result of the coupling between the
CMB curvature parameter and the gravitational tidal shear in the observed map.
These characteristic patterns can be statistically picked up by considering
three independent characteristic functions, which are obtained from the
averages of quadratic combinations of the second derivative fields of CMB over
isotemperature contours with each threshold. Consequently, we find that the
lensing effect generates non-Gaussian signatures on those functions that have a
distinct functional dependence of the threshold. We test the method using
numerical simulations of CMB maps and show that the lensing signals can be
measured definitely, provided that we use CMB data with sufficiently low noise
and high angular resolution.