We study how the structure and variability of magnetohydrodynamic (MHD)
turbulence in accretion discs converge with domain size. Our results are based
on a series of vertically stratified local simulations, computed using the
Athena code, that have fixed spatial resolution, but varying radial and
azimuthal extent (from \Delta R = 0.5H to 16H, where H is the vertical scale
height). We show that elementary local diagnostics of the turbulence, including
the Shakura-Sunyaev {\alpha} parameter, the ratio of Maxwell stress to magnetic
energy, and the ratio of magnetic to fluid stresses, converge to within the
precision of our measurements for spatial domains of radial size Lx \geq 2H. We
obtain {\alpha} = 0.02-0.03, consistent with recent results. Very small domains
(Lx = 0.5H) return anomalous results, independent of spatial resolution. The
convergence with domain size is only valid for a limited set of diagnostics:
larger spatial domains admit the emergence of dynamically important mesoscale
structures. In our largest simulations, the Maxwell stress shows a significant
large scale non-local component, while the density develops long-lived
axisymmetric perturbations (zonal flows) at the 20% level. Most strikingly, the
variability of the disc in fixed-sized patches decreases strongly as the
simulation volume increases. We find generally good agreement between our
largest local simulations and global simulations with comparable spatial
resolution. There is no direct evidence that the presence of curvature terms or
radial gradients in global calculations materially affect the turbulence,
except to perhaps introduce an outer radial scale for mesoscale structures. The
demonstrated importance of mean magnetic fields, seen in both large local and
global simulations implies that the growth and saturation of these fields is
likely of critical importance for the evolution of accretion discs. (abridged)