The resonant excitation of an electromagnetic guided mode of a slab structure
by exterior radiation results in anomalous scattering behavior, including sharp
energy-transmission anomalies and field amplification around the frequency of
the slab mode. In the case of a periodically layered ambient medium, anisotropy
serves to couple the slab mode to radiation. Exact expressions for scattering
phenomena are proved by analyzing a pole of the full scattering matrix as it
moves off the real frequency axis into the lower half complex plane under a
detuning of the wavevector parallel to the slab. The real pole is the frequency
of a perfect (infinite Q) guided mode, which becomes lossy as the frequency
gains an imaginary part. This work extends results of Shipman and Venakides to
evanescent source fields and two-dimensional parallel wavevector and
demonstrates by example how the latter allows one to control independently the
width and central frequency of a resonance by varying the angle of incidence of
the source field. The analysis relies on two nondegeneracy conditions of the
complex dispersion relation for slab modes (relating poles of the scattering
matrix to wavevector), which were assumed in previous works and are proved in
this work for layered media. One of them asserts that the dispersion relation
near the wavevector and frequency of a perfect guided mode is the zero set of a
simple eigenvalue, and the other relates the frequency derivative of the
eigenvalue to the total energy of the mode, thereby implying that this
derivative is nonzero.