Over the last decade, a large variety of clustering algorithms have been
developed to detect coregulatory relationships among genes from microarray gene
expression data. Model based clustering approaches have emerged as
statistically well grounded methods, but the properties of these algorithms
when applied to large-scale data sets are not always well understood. An
in-depth analysis can reveal important insights about the performance of the
algorithm, the expected quality of the output clusters, and the possibilities
for extracting more relevant information out of a particular data set. We have
extended an existing algorithm for model based clustering of genes to
simultaneously cluster genes and conditions, and used three large compendia of
gene expression data for S. cerevisiae to analyze its properties. The algorithm
uses a Bayesian approach and a Gibbs sampling procedure to iteratively update
the cluster assignment of each gene and condition. For large-scale data sets,
the posterior distribution is strongly peaked on a limited number of
equiprobable clusterings. A GO annotation analysis shows that these local
maxima are all biologically equally significant, and that simultaneously
clustering genes and conditions performs better than only clustering genes and
assuming independent conditions. A collection of distinct equivalent
clusterings can be summarized as a weighted graph on the set of genes, from
which we extract fuzzy, overlapping clusters using a graph spectral method. The
cores of these fuzzy clusters contain tight sets of strongly coexpressed genes,
while the overlaps exhibit relations between genes showing only partial
coexpression.