The spatial interaction between two or more classes (or species) has
important consequences in many fields and might cause multivariate clustering
patterns such as segregation or association. The spatial pattern of segregation
occurs when members of a class tend to be found near members of the same class
(i.e., conspecifics), while association occurs when members of a class tend to
be found near members of the other class or classes. These patterns can be
tested using a nearest neighbor contingency table (NNCT). The null hypothesis
is randomness in the nearest neighbor (NN) structure, which may result from --
among other patterns -- random labeling (RL) or complete spatial randomness
(CSR) of points from two or more classes (which is called the CSR independence,
henceforth). In this article, we consider Dixon's class-specific tests of
segregation and introduce a new class-specific test, which is a new
decomposition of Dixon's overall chi-square segregation statistic. We
demonstrate that the tests we consider provide information on different aspects
of the spatial interaction between the classes and they are conditional under
the CSR independence pattern, but not under the RL pattern. We analyze the
distributional properties and prove the consistency of these tests; compare the
empirical significant levels (Type I error rates) and empirical power estimates
of the tests using Monte Carlo simulations. We demonstrate that the new
class-specific tests also have comparable performance with the currently
available tests based on NNCTs in terms of Type I error and power estimates.
For illustrative purposes, we use three example data sets. We also provide
guidelines for using these tests.