Contemporary use of the term 'intension' derives from the traditional logical
doctrine that an idea has both an extension and an intension. In this paper we
introduce an intensional FOL (First-order-logic) for P2P systems by fusing the
Bealer's intensional algebraic FOL with the S5 possible-world semantics of the
Montague, we define the intensional equivalence relation for this logic and the
weak deductive inference for it. The notion of ontology has become widespread
in semantic Web. The meaning of concepts and views defined over some database
ontology can be considered as intensional objects which have particular
extension in some possible world: for instance in the actual world. Thus, non
invasive mapping between completely independent peer databases in a P2P systems
can be naturally specified by the set of couples of intensionally equivalent
views, which have the same meaning (intension), over two different peers. Such
a kind of mapping has very different semantics from the standard view-based
mappings based on the material implication commonly used for Data Integration.
We show how a P2P database system may be embedded into this intensional modal
FOL, and how we are able to obtain a weak non-omniscient inference, which can
be effectively implemented. For a query answering we consider non omniscient
query agents and we define object-oriented class for them which implements as
method the query rewriting algorithm. Finally, we show that this query
answering algorithm is sound and complete w.r.t. the weak deduction of the P2P
intensional logic.