An effect of the differential rotation on the nonlinear electromotive force
in MHD turbulence is found. It includes a nonhelical $\alpha$ effect which is
caused by a differential rotation, and it is independent of a hydrodynamic
helicity. There is no quenching of this effect contrary to the quenching of the
usual $\alpha$ effect caused by a hydrodynamic helicity. The nonhelical
$\alpha$ effect vanishes when the rotation is constant on the cylinders which
are parallel to the rotation axis. The mean differential rotation creates also
the shear-current effect which changes its sign with the nonlinear growth of
the mean magnetic field. However, there is no quenching of this effect. These
phenomena determine the nonlinear evolution of the mean magnetic field. An
effect of a uniform rotation on the nonlinear electromotive force is also
studied. A nonlinear theory of the ${\bf \Omega} {\bf \times} \bar{\bf J}$
effect is developed, and the quenching of the hydrodynamic part of the usual
$\alpha$ effect which is caused by a uniform rotation and inhomogeneity of
turbulence, is found. Other contributions of a uniform rotation to the
nonlinear electromotive force are also determined. All these effects are
studied using the spectral $\tau$ approximation (the third-order closure
procedure). An axisymmetric mean-field dynamo in the spherical and cylindrical
geometries is considered. The nonlinear saturation mechanism based on the
magnetic helicity evolution is discussed. It is shown that this universal
mechanism is nearly independent of the form of the flux of magnetic helicity,
and it requires only a nonzero flux of magnetic helicity. Astrophysical
applications of these effects are discussed.