We consider the Curie-Weiss model at a given initial temperature in vanishing
external field evolving under a Glauber spin-flip dynamics corresponding to a
possibly different temperature. We study the limiting conditional probabilities
and their continuity properties and discuss their set of points of
discontinuity (bad points). We provide a complete analysis of the transition
between Gibbsian and non-Gibbsian behavior as a function of time, extending
earlier work for the case of independent spin-flip dynamics. For initial
temperature bigger than one we prove that the time-evolved measure stays Gibbs
forever, for any (possibly low) temperature of the dynamics. In the regime of
heating to low-temperatures from even lower temperatures, when the initial
temperature is smaller than the temperature of the dynamics, and smaller than
1, we prove that the time-evolved measure is Gibbs initially and becomes
non-Gibbs after a sharp transition time. We find this regime is further divided
into a region where only symmetric bad configurations exist, and a region where
this symmetry is broken. In the regime of further cooling from low-temperatures
there is always symmetry-breaking in the set of bad configurations. These bad
configurations are created by a new mechanism which is related to the
occurrence of periodic orbits for the vector field which describes the dynamics
of Euler-Lagrange equations for the path large deviation functional for the
order parameter. To our knowledge this is the first example of the rigorous
study of non-Gibbsian phenomena related to cooling, albeit in a mean-field
setup.