Background: The reduced, level-independent, Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer
Hamiltonian is exactly diagonalizable by means of a Bethe Ansatz wavefunction,
provided the free variables in the Ansatz are the solutions of the set of
Richardson-Gaudin equations. On the one side, the Bethe Ansatz is a simple
product state of generalised pair operators. On the other hand, the
Richardson-Gaudin equations are strongly coupled in a non-linear way, making
them prone to singularities. Unfortunately, it is non-trivial to give a clear
physical interpretation to the Richardson-Gaudin variables because no physical
operator is directly related to the individual variables. Purpose: The purpose
of this paper is to shed more light on the critical behavior of the
Richardson-Gaudin equations, and how this is related to the product wave
structure of the Bethe Ansatz. Method: A pseudo-deformation of the quasi-spin
algebra is introduced, leading towards a Heisenberg-Weyl algebra in the
contraction limit of the deformation parameter. This enables an adiabatic
connection of the exact Bethe Ansatz eigenstates with pure bosonic multiphonon
states. The physical interpretation of this approach is an adiabatic
suppression of the Pauli exclusion principle. Results: The method is applied to
a so-called "picket-fence" model for the BCS Hamiltonian, displaying a typical
critical behavior in the Richardson-Gaudin variables. It was observed that the
associated bosonic multiphonon states change collective nature at the critical
interaction strengths of the Richardson-Gaudin equations. Conclusions: The
Pauli exclusion principle is the main responsible for the critical behavior of
the Richardson-Gaudin equations, which can be suppressed by means of a pseudo
deformation of the quasispin algebra.