The WFPC2 camera aboard the HST was used to obtain images of the planetary
nebula BD+30 3639 at two epochs separated by 5.663 years. The expansion of the
nebula in the H-alpha and [N II] bands has been measured using several methods.
Detailed expansion maps for both emission lines were constructed from nearly
200 almost independent features. There is good agreement between the
(independent) H-alpha and [N II] proper motions. The central velocity split is
measured from the STIS echelle spectra of the C II] 2326A multiplet to be
+/-36.3 km/s at a position angle of 99 degrees. The angular displacement along
this slit position was measured to be 4.25 mas/yr at 2".47 from the center. We
constructed a tilted ellipsoidal shell model by fitting the radio brightness
variation of the 5 and 15 GHz VLA observations, and making use of the
ground-based echelle spectra from Bryce & Mellema (1999), to estimate distance.
Our model has an axial ratio of 1.56, is inclined to the line of sight by 9.7
degrees, and exhibits an expansion in the plane of the sky which is 2/3 that in
the radial direction, leading to a distance of 1.2 kpc. Not all the kinematic
data fits this simple model, so the distance must still be regarded as
uncertain. Based on the recent model atmosphere of Crowther et al. (2002), a
distance of 1.2 kpc implies a stellar luminosity of 4250 L_sun. The kinematic
age of the nebula varies somewhat from region to region; a good average value
is 800 years, while the expansion along the position of the echelle slit gives
about 600 years.