Recent results establish for 2-spin antiferromagnetic systems that the
computational complexity of approximating the partition function on graphs of
maximum degree D undergoes a phase transition that coincides with the
uniqueness/non-uniqueness phase transition on the infinite D-regular tree. For
the ferromagnetic Potts model we investigate whether analogous hardness results
hold. Goldberg and Jerrum showed that approximating the partition function of
the ferromagnetic Potts model is at least as hard as approximating the number
of independent sets in bipartite graphs (#BIS-hardness). We improve this
hardness result by establishing it for bipartite graphs of maximum degree D. We
first present a detailed picture for the phase diagram for the infinite
D-regular tree, giving a refined picture of its first-order phase transition
and establishing the critical temperature for the coexistence of the disordered
and ordered phases. We then prove for all temperatures below this critical
temperature (the region where the ordered phase "dominates") that it is
#BIS-hard to approximate the partition function on bipartite graphs of maximum
degree D.
  The #BIS-hardness result uses random bipartite regular graphs as a gadget in
the reduction. The analysis of these random graphs relies on recent results
establishing connections between the maxima of the expectation of their
partition function, attractive fixpoints of the associated tree recursions, and
induced matrix norms. In this paper we extend these connections to random
regular graphs for all ferromagnetic models. Using these connections, we
establish the Bethe prediction for every ferromagnetic spin system on random
regular graphs. As a further consequence, we prove for the ferromagnetic Potts
model that the Swendsen-Wang algorithm is torpidly mixing on random D-regular
graphs at the critical temperature for sufficiently large q.