The Q/U Imaging ExperimenT (QUIET) has observed the cosmic microwave
background (CMB) at 43 and 95GHz. The 43-GHz results have been published in
QUIET Collaboration et al. (2011), and here we report the measurement of CMB
polarization power spectra using the 95-GHz data. This data set comprises 5337
hours of observations recorded by an array of 84 polarized coherent receivers
with a total array sensitivity of 87 uK sqrt(s). Four low-foreground fields
were observed, covering a total of ~1000 square degrees with an effective
angular resolution of 12.8', allowing for constraints on primordial
gravitational waves and high-signal-to-noise measurements of the E-modes across
three acoustic peaks. The data reduction was performed using two independent
analysis pipelines, one based on a pseudo-Cl (PCL) cross-correlation approach,
and the other on a maximum-likelihood (ML) approach. All data selection
criteria and filters were modified until a predefined set of null tests had
been satisfied before inspecting any non-null power spectrum. The results
derived by the two pipelines are in good agreement. We characterize the EE, EB
and BB power spectra between l=25 and 975 and find that the EE spectrum is
consistent with LCDM, while the BB power spectrum is consistent with zero.
Based on these measurements, we constrain the tensor-to-scalar ratio to
r=1.1+0.9-0.8 (r<2.8 at 95% C.L.) as derived by the ML pipeline, and
r=1.2+0.9-0.8 (r<2.7 at 95% C.L.) as derived by the PCL pipeline. In one of the
fields, we find a correlation with the dust component of the Planck Sky Model,
though the corresponding excess power is small compared to statistical errors.
Finally, we derive limits on all known systematic errors, and demonstrate that
these correspond to a tensor-to-scalar ratio smaller than r=0.01, the lowest
level yet reported in the literature.