Compressed sensing is a recent set of mathematical results showing that
sparse signals can be exactly reconstructed from a small number of linear
measurements. Interestingly, for ideal sparse signals with no measurement
noise, random measurements allow perfect reconstruction while measurements
based on principal component analysis (PCA) or independent component analysis
(ICA) do not. At the same time, for other signal and noise distributions, PCA
and ICA can significantly outperform random projections in terms of enabling
reconstruction from a small number of measurements. In this paper we ask: given
the distribution of signals we wish to measure, what are the optimal set of
linear projections for compressed sensing? We consider the problem of finding a
small number of linear projections that are maximally informative about the
signal. Formally, we use the InfoMax criterion and seek to maximize the mutual
information between the signal, x, and the (possibly noisy) projection y=Wx. We
show that in general the optimal projections are not the principal components
of the data nor random projections, but rather a seemingly novel set of
projections that capture what is still uncertain about the signal, given the
knowledge of distribution. We present analytic solutions for certain special
cases including natural images. In particular, for natural images, the
near-optimal projections are bandwise random, i.e., incoherent to the sparse
bases at a particular frequency band but with more weights on the
low-frequencies, which has a physical relation to the multi-resolution
representation of images.