Computational methods are proposed for solving a convex quadratic program
(QP). Active-set methods are defined for a particular primal and dual
formulation of a QP with general equality constraints and simple lower bounds
on the variables. First, two methods are proposed, one primal and one dual.
These methods generate a sequence of iterates that are feasible with respect to
the equality constraints associated with the optimality conditions of the
primal-dual form. The primal method maintains feasibility of the primal
inequalities while driving the infeasibilities of the dual inequalities to
zero. In contrast, the dual method maintains feasibility of the dual
inequalities while moving to satisfy the infeasibilities of the primal
inequalities. In each of these methods, the search directions satisfy a KKT
system of equations formed from Hessian and constraint components associated
with an appropriate column basis. The composition of the basis is specified by
an active-set strategy that guarantees the nonsingularity of each set of KKT
equations. Each of the proposed methods is a conventional active-set method in
the sense that an initial primal- or dual-feasible point is required. Second,
it is shown how the quadratic program may be solved as coupled pair of primal
and dual quadratic programs created from the original by simultaneously
shifting the simple-bound constraints and adding a penalty term to the
objective function. Any conventional column basis may be made optimal for such
a primal-dual pair of problems. The shifts are then updated using the solution
of either the primal or the dual shifted problem. An obvious application of
this approach is to solve a shifted dual QP to define an initial feasible point
for the primal (or vice versa). The computational performance of each of the
proposed methods is evaluated on a set of convex problems from the CUTEst test
collection.