We study the hard-core model defined on independent sets, where each
independent set I in a graph G is weighted proportionally to $\lambda^{|I|}$,
for a positive real parameter $\lambda$. For large $\lambda$, computing the
partition function (namely, the normalizing constant which makes the weighting
a probability distribution on a finite graph) on graphs of maximum degree $D\ge
3$, is a well known computationally challenging problem. More concretely, let
$\lambda_c(T_D)$ denote the critical value for the so-called uniqueness
threshold of the hard-core model on the infinite D-regular tree; recent
breakthrough results of Dror Weitz (2006) and Allan Sly (2010) have identified
$\lambda_c(T_D)$ as a threshold where the hardness of estimating the above
partition function undergoes a computational transition.
  We focus on the well-studied particular case of the square lattice
$\integers^2$, and provide a new lower bound for the uniqueness threshold, in
particular taking it well above $\lambda_c(T_4)$. Our technique refines and
builds on the tree of self-avoiding walks approach of Weitz, resulting in a new
technical sufficient criterion (of wider applicability) for establishing strong
spatial mixing (and hence uniqueness) for the hard-core model. Our new
criterion achieves better bounds on strong spatial mixing when the graph has
extra structure, improving upon what can be achieved by just using the maximum
degree. Applying our technique to $\integers^2$ we prove that strong spatial
mixing holds for all $\lambda<2.3882$, improving upon the work of Weitz that
held for $\lambda<27/16=1.6875$. Our results imply a fully-polynomial
deterministic approximation algorithm for estimating the partition function, as
well as rapid mixing of the associated Glauber dynamics to sample from the
hard-core distribution.