We study the spectra and pseudospectra of finite and infinite tridiagonal
random matrices, in the case where each of the diagonals varies over a separate
compact set, say $U,V,W\subset\mathbb{C}$. Such matrices are sometimes termed
stochastic Toeplitz matrices $A_+$ in the semi-infinite case and stochastic
Laurent matrices $A$ in the bi-infinite case. Their spectra, $\Sigma=$ spec $A$
and $\Sigma_+=$ spec $A_+$, are independent of $A$ and $A_+$ as long as $A$ and
$A_+$ are pseudoergodic (in the sense of E.B. Davies, Commun. Math. Phys.,
2001), which holds almost surely in the random case. This was shown in Davies
(2001) for $A$; that the same holds for $A_+$ is one main result of this paper.
We give upper and lower bounds on $\Sigma$ and $\Sigma_+$, and we explicitly
compute a set $G$ that fills the gap between the two in the sense that
$\Sigma\cup G=\Sigma_+$. We show that invertibility of one operator $A_+$
implies invertibility - and uniform boundedness of the inverses - of all finite
square matrices with three diagonals in $U, V$ and $W$. This implies that the
so-called finite section method for the approximate solution of a system
$A_+x=b$ is applicable as soon as $A_+$ is invertible, and that the same method
for estimating the spectrum of $A_+$ does not suffer from spectral pollution.
Both results illustrate that tridiagonal stochastic Toeplitz operators share
important properties of (classical) Toeplitz operators. One of our main tools
is a new version of the Coburn lemma for classical Toeplitz operators, saying
that a stochastic tridiagonal Toeplitz operator, if Fredholm, is always
injective or surjective. In the final part we bound and compare the norms, and
the norms of inverses, of bi-infinite, semi-infinite and finite tridiagonal
matrices over $U$, $V$ and $W$. This allows the study of the resolvent norms,
and hence the pseudospectra, of these operators and matrices.