For high-dimensional datasets, it is common to evaluate a measure of
dependence on every variable pair and retain the highest-scoring pairs for
follow-up. If the statistic used systematically assigns higher scores to some
relationship types over others, important relationships may be overlooked. This
difficulty is avoided if the statistic is equitable [Reshef et al. 2015a],
i.e., if, for some measure of noise, it assigns similar scores to equally noisy
relationships regardless of relationship type.
  In this paper, we introduce and characterize a population measure of
dependence called MIC*. We show three ways that MIC* can be viewed: as the
population value of MIC, a highly equitable statistic from [Reshef et al.
2011], as a canonical "smoothing" of mutual information, and as the supremum of
an infinite sequence defined in terms of optimal one-dimensional partitions of
the marginals of the joint distribution. Based on this theory, we introduce an
efficient algorithm for computing MIC* from the density of a pair of random
variables, and we define a new consistent estimator MICe for MIC* that is
efficiently computable. (In contrast, there is no known polynomial-time
algorithm for computing MIC.) We show through simulations that MICe has better
bias-variance properties than MIC, and that it has high equitability with
respect to R^2 on a set of functional relationships. While MICe is designed for
equitability rather than independence testing, we introduce a related
statistic, TICe, that is a trivial side-product of the computation of MICe. We
prove the consistency of independence testing based on TICe and show in
simulations that this approach achieves excellent power.
  This paper is accompanied by a companion paper [Reshef et al. 2015b] focused
on in-depth empirical evaluation of several leading measures of dependence that
finds that the performance of MICe and TICe is state-of-the-art.