Numerical continuation calculations for ordinary differential equations
(ODEs) are, by now, an established tool for bifurcation analysis in dynamical
systems theory as well as across almost all natural and engineering sciences.
Although several excellent standard software packages are available for ODEs,
there are - for good reasons - no standard numerical continuation toolboxes
available for partial differential equations (PDEs), which cover a broad range
of different classes of PDEs automatically. A natural approach to this problem
is to look for efficient gluing computation approaches, with independent
components developed by researchers in numerical analysis, dynamical systems,
scientific computing and mathematical modelling. In this paper, we shall study
several elliptic PDEs (Lane-Emden-Fowler, Lane-Emden-Fowler with microscopic
force, Caginalp) via the numerical continuation software pde2path and develop a
gluing component to determine a set of starting solutions for the continuation
by exploting the variational structures of the PDEs. In particular, we solve
the initialization problem of numerical continuation for PDEs via a minimax
algorithm to find multiple unstable solution. Furthermore, for the Caginalp
system, we illustrate the efficient gluing link of pde2path to the underlying
mesh generation and the FEM MatLab pdetoolbox. Even though the approach works
efficiently due to the high-level programming language and without developing
any new algorithms, we still obtain interesting bifurcation diagrams and
directly applicable conclusions about the three elliptic PDEs we study, in
particular with respect to symmetry-breaking. In particular, we show for a
modified Lane-Emden-Fowler equation with an asymmetric microscopic force, how a
fully connected bifurcation diagram splits up into C-shaped isolas on which
localized pattern deformation appears towards two different regimes.