The post-formation, initial entropy S_i of a gas giant planet is a key
witness to its mass-assembly history and a crucial quantity for its early
evolution. However, formation models are not yet able to predict reliably S_i,
making unjustified the use solely of traditional, 'hot-start' cooling tracks to
interpret direct imaging results and calling for an observational determination
of initial entropies to guide formation scenarios. Using a grid of models in
mass and entropy, we show how to place joint constraints on the mass and
initial entropy of an object from its observed luminosity and age. This
generalises the usual estimate of only a lower bound on the real mass through
hot-start tracks. Moreover, we demonstrate that with mass information, e.g.
from dynamical stability analyses or radial velocity, tighter bounds can be set
on the initial entropy. We apply this procedure to 2M1207 b and find that its
initial entropy is at least 9.2 kB/baryon, assuming that it does not burn
deuterium. For the planets of the HR 8799 system, we infer that they must have
formed with S_i > 9.2 kB/baryon, independent of uncertainties about the age of
the star. Finally, a similar analysis for beta Pic b reveals that it must have
formed with S_i > 10.5 kB/baryon, using the radial-velocity mass upper limit.
These initial entropy values are respectively ca. 0.7, 0.5, and 1.5 kB/baryon
higher than the ones obtained from core accretion models by Marley et al.,
thereby quantitatively ruling out the coldest starts for these objects and
constraining warm starts, especially for beta Pic b.