The traditional date of 1595 BCE for the destruction of Babylon by the
Hittite king Mursili I is accepted by most historians for many years despite
notable controversies. This pivotal date is considered crucial to the various
calculations of the early chronology of the ancient Near East. According to the
Venus Tablet (Enuma Anu Enlil 63) which describes the rising and setting of
Venus during the reign of Ammisaduqa, there are only 4 possibilities implying 4
dates for the destruction of Ur (1912, 1944, 2004, 2064 BCE) but a tablet of
astronomical omens (Enuma Anu Enlil 20,21) mentions a lunar eclipse, dated
14/III/48, at the end of the reign of Shulgi and a lunar eclipse, dated
14/XII/24, at the end of the reign of Ibbi-Sin. Over the period 2200-1850 BCE
there are only 3 pairs of eclipses, spaced by 42 years, matching the
description of astronomical omens but only 1 agreeing with the previous 4
dates. The second way to check the date for the fall of Babylon is to rebuild
the chronology of this period thanks to synchronisms dated by astronomy from
Assyrian, Babylonian, Egyptian and Israelite chronologies which provide
synchronisms that can be dated independently. The Mesopotamian chronology of
this period is reconstructed using the number of Assyrian eponyms (1 a year)
and the length of Babylonian reigns combined with the set of synchronisms among
Assyrian and Babylonian kings in Annals. During the reign of Assur-dan I
(1179-1133) eponyms began on 1 Nisan instead of 1 Sippu, but Assyrian lunar
years without intercalation remained the norm until Tiglath-pileser I. As the
Babylonian year began on 1st Nisan (just after the spring equinox), Assyrian
years coincided with Babylonian lunar years with intercalation, thus the period
between Assur-dan I and Tiglath-pileser I was therefore transitional. Owing to
the Babylonian chronology and synchronisms it is possible to date other
chronologies.