In this thesis, we explore three phenomenological alternatives to the current
paradigm of the standard inflationary big bang scenario. The three alternative
themes are spin torsion (or Einstein-Cartan-Kibble-Sciama) theories, extra
dimensions (braneworld cosmology) and changing global symmetry. In the spin
torsion theories, we found new cosmological solutions with a cosmological
constant as alternative to the standard scalar field driven inflationary
scenario and we conclude that these toy models do not exhibit an inflationary
phase. In the theme of extra dimensions, we discuss the dynamics of linearized
scalar and tensor perturbations in an almost Friedmann-Robertson-Walker
braneworld cosmology of Randall-Sundrum type II using the 1+3 covariant
approach. We derive a complete set of frame-independent equations for the total
matter variables, and a partial set of equations for the non-local variables,
which arise from the projection of the Weyl tensor in the bulk. The latter
equations are incomplete since there is no propagation equation for the
non-local anisotropic stress. In the simplest approximation, we show the
braneworld imprint as a correction to the power spectra for standard
temperature and polarization anisotropies and similarly show that the tensor
anisotropies are also insensitive to the high energy effects. Finally in the
theme of changing global symmetry, we constructed a bounded isothermal solution
embedded in an expanding Einstein de Sitter universe and showed that there is a
possible phase transition in the far future.