The performed systematic meta-analysis of the quality of data description
(QDD) of existing event generators of nucleus-nucleus collisions allows us to
extract a very important physical information. Our meta-analysis is dealing
with the results of 10 event generators which describe data measured in the
range of center of mass collision energies from 3.1 GeV to 17.3 GeV. It
considers the mean deviation squared per number of experimental points obtained
by these event generators, i.e. the QDD, as the results of independent
meta-measurements. These generators and their QDDs are divided in two groups.
The first group includes the generators which account for the quark-gluon
plasma formation during nuclear collisions (QGP models), while the second group
includes the generators which do not assume the QGP formation in such
collisions (hadron gas models). Comparing the QDD of more than a hundred of
different data sets of strange hadrons by two groups of models, we found two
regions of the equal quality description of data which are located at the
center of mass collision energies 4.4-4.87 GeV and 10.8-12 GeV. At the
collision energies below 4.4 GeV the hadron gas models describe data much
better than the QGP one and, hence, we associate this region with hadron phase.
At the collision energies between 5 GeV and 10.8 GeV and above 12 GeV we found
that QGP models describe data essentially better than the hadron gas ones and,
hence, these regions we associate with the quark-gluon phase. As a result, the
collision energy regions 4.4-4.87 GeV and 10.8-12 GeV we interpret as the
energies of the hadron-quark-gluon mixed phase formation. Based on these
findings we argue that the most probable energy range of the QCD phase diagram
(tri)critical endpoint is 12-14 GeV.