We measure the linear power spectrum of mass density fluctuations at redshift
z=2.5 from the \lya forest absorption in a sample of 19 QSO spectra, using the
method introduced by Croft et al. (1998). The P(k) measurement covers the range
2\pi/k ~ 450-2350 km/s (2-12 comoving \hmpc for \Omega=1). We examine a number
of possible sources of systematic error and find none that are significant on
these scales. In particular, we show that spatial variations in the UV
background caused by the discreteness of the source population should have
negligible effect on our P(k) measurement. We obtain consistent results from
the high and low redshift halves of the data set and from an entirely
independent sample of nine QSO spectra with mean redshift z=2.1. A power law
fit to our measured P(k) yields a logarithmic slope n=-2.25 +/- 0.18 and an
amplitude \Delta^2(k_p) = 0.57^{+0.26}_{-0.18}, where $\Delta^2$ is the
contribution to the density variance from a unit interval of lnk and k_p=0.008
(km/s)^{-1}. Direct comparison of our mass P(k) to the measured clustering of
Lyman Break Galaxies shows that they are a highly biased population, with a
bias factor b~2-5. The slope of the linear P(k), never previously measured on
these scales, is close to that predicted by models based on inflation and Cold
Dark Matter (CDM). The P(k) amplitude is consistent with some scale-invariant,
COBE-normalized CDM models (e.g., an open model with \Omega_0=0.4) and
inconsistent with others (e.g., \Omega=1). Even with limited dynamic range and
substantial statistical uncertainty, a measurement of P(k) that has no unknown
``bias factors'' offers many opportunities for testing theories of structure
formation and constraining cosmological parameters. (Shortened)