We consider stability and uniqueness in real phase retrieval problems over
general input sets. Specifically, we assume the data consists of noisy
quadratic measurements of an unknown input x in R^n that lies in a general set
T and study conditions under which x can be stably recovered from the
measurements. In the noise-free setting we derive a general expression on the
number of measurements needed to ensure that a unique solution can be found in
a stable way, that depends on the set T through a natural complexity parameter.
This parameter can be computed explicitly for many sets T of interest. For
example, for k-sparse inputs we show that O(k\log(n/k)) measurements are
needed, and when x can be any vector in R^n, O(n) measurements suffice. In the
noisy case, we show that if one can find a value for which the empirical risk
is bounded by a given, computable constant (that depends on the set T), then
the error with respect to the true input is bounded above by an another,
closely related complexity parameter of the set. By choosing an appropriate
number N of measurements, this bound can be made arbitrarily small, and it
decays at a rate faster than N^{-1/2+\delta} for any \delta>0. In particular,
for k-sparse vectors stable recovery is possible from O(k\log(n/k)\log k) noisy
measurements, and when x can be any vector in R^n, O(n \log n) noisy
measurements suffice. We also show that the complexity parameter for the
quadratic problem is the same as the one used for analyzing stability in linear
measurements under very general conditions. Thus, no substantial price has to
be paid in terms of stability if there is no knowledge of the phase.