Motivated by recent experimental implementations of artificial gauge fields
for gases of cold atoms, we study the scattering properties of particles that
are subjected to time-periodic Hamiltonians. Making use of Floquet theory, we
focus on translationally invariant situations in which the single-particle
dynamics can be described in terms of spatially extended Floquet-Bloch waves.
We develop a general formalism for the scattering of these Floquet-Bloch waves.
An important role is played by the conservation of Floquet quasi-energy, which
is defined only up to the addition of integer multiples of $\hbar\omega$ for a
Hamiltonian with period $T=2\pi/\omega$. We discuss the consequences of this
for the interpretation of "elastic" and "inelastic" scattering in cases of
physical interest. We illustrate our general results with applications to: the
scattering of a single particle in a Floquet-Bloch state from a static
potential; and, the scattering of two particles in Floquet-Bloch states through
their interparticle interaction. We analyse examples of these scattering
processes that are closely related to the schemes used to general artifical
gauge fields in cold-atom experiments, through optical dressing of internal
states, or through time-periodic modulations of tight-binding lattices. We show
that the effects of scattering cannot, in general, be understood by an
effective time-independent Hamiltonian, even in the limit $\omega \to \infty$
of rapid modulation. We discuss the relative sizes of the elastic scattering
(required to stablize many-body phases) and of the inelastic scattering
(leading to deleterious heating effects). In particular, we describe how
inelastic processes that can cause significant heating in current experimental
set-up can be switched off by additional confinement of transverse motion.