For the hard-core lattice gas model defined on independent sets weighted by
an activity $\lambda$, we study the critical activity $\lambda_c(\mathbb{Z}^2)$
for the uniqueness/non-uniqueness threshold on the 2-dimensional integer
lattice $\mathbb{Z}^2$. The conjectured value of the critical activity is
approximately $3.796$. Until recently, the best lower bound followed from
algorithmic results of Weitz (2006). Weitz presented an FPTAS for approximating
the partition function for graphs of constant maximum degree $\Delta$ when
$\lambda<\lambda_c(\mathbb{T}_\Delta)$ where $\mathbb{T}_\Delta$ is the
infinite, regular tree of degree $\Delta$. His result established a certain
decay of correlations property called strong spatial mixing (SSM) on
$\mathbb{Z}^2$ by proving that SSM holds on its self-avoiding walk tree
$T_{\mathrm{saw}}^\sigma(\mathbb{Z}^2)$ where $\sigma=(\sigma_v)_{v\in
\mathbb{Z}^2}$ and $\sigma_v$ is an ordering on the neighbors of vertex $v$. As
a consequence he obtained that $\lambda_c(\mathbb{Z}^2)\geq\lambda_c(
\mathbb{T}_4) = 1.675$. Restrepo et al. (2011) improved Weitz's approach for
the particular case of $\mathbb{Z}^2$ and obtained that
$\lambda_c(\mathbb{Z}^2)>2.388$. In this paper, we establish an upper bound for
this approach, by showing that, for all $\sigma$, SSM does not hold on
$T_{\mathrm{saw}}^\sigma(\mathbb{Z}^2)$ when $\lambda>3.4$. We also present a
refinement of the approach of Restrepo et al. which improves the lower bound to
$\lambda_c(\mathbb{Z}^2)>2.48$.